
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 64, Issue 2, pages 87-171. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:64+issue:2+year:1968&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            Oscar C. McCulloch Transforms 
                        Plymouth
                     Church, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , into an "Institutional" Church
            
                    Genevieve C. Weeks
                    ∗
                
            In the last two decades of the nineteenth century a number of churches in older sections of major
                    cities of the United States expanded their programs to include secular activities. They became known
                    as "institutional" churches since, in addition to the usual religious activities,
                    their programs included instruction in vocational and educational subjects, kindergartens, day
                    nurseries, employment bureaus, dispensaries and clinics, reading rooms, and book clubs. They were
                    characterized by the "open door" and free seats and were like other churches
                    except that they laid "more stress on the total man as the subject of redemption, and the
                    relations of men to each other."1
            
            One of the very first of these institutional churches was established in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana: the 
                        Plymouth
                     (Congregational) Church.2 The minister responsible for its
                    development was Oscar Carleton McCulloch who began his ministry there in 1877. McCulloch's
                    activities as a social reformer reached far outside his church, and his contributions to the
                    development of social welfare in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the state of Indiana, and the nation warrant more space than can be allotted here.
                    This article, therefore, will focus on the religious and secular program which he built at 
                        Plymouth
                     Church, stressing particularly its innovative and unorthodox features.
            Oscar McCulloch was born in 
                  Fremont, Ohio
               , July 2, 1843, the second child and first
                    son of Carlton G. and Harriet L. McCulloch. His father was a druggist and young Oscar left school at
                    fifteen to clerk in his store. At eighteen, after a business course at Eastman's Commercial
                    College, he became a salesman for a wholesale drug company in 
                        Chicago
                     and travelled widely through the South and West. From this experience he learned sound
                    business organizational methods which he put to use in his later career, became a good judge of
                    human character, and, more important, developed a deep concern for people. The foundation for this
                    concern had been laid by his parents in the religious atmosphere of his home and was further
                    developed through his work with the Christian Commission of 
                        Chicago
                     and his service in a mission church of that city between trips during the years he was
                    a salesman. Encouraged by friends who realized his effectiveness as a religious teacher, he 
                  
                     ∗ Miss Weeks is an associate professor at the Graduate
                            School of Social Service, Indiana University, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     1 Charles L. Thompson, "An Agency in Accord with the Spirit
                            and Method of the Gospel," Homiletic Review, XXXII (December,
                            1896), 561.
                  
                     2 Other early examples of "institutional churches"
                            were the 
                                Plymouth
                             Church in Milwaukee; Hope Church in 
                                Worcester
                             and Pilgrim Church in 
                        Springfield, Massachusetts
                     ; Berkeley Temple in 
                                Boston
                            ; St. George's in 
                                New York City
                            ; the Fourth Congregational Church in Hartford, 
                                Connecticut
                            ; and All Souls Church (Unitarian) in 
                                Chicago
                            .
               
                    
                    
                  Reproduced from Oscar C. McCulloch, The Open Door (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1892), frontispiece.
               
                    
                    
                  A PAGE FROM MCCULLOCH'S DIARY
                   Courtesy Indiana Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                     decided to enter the ministry and enrolled in the 
                        Chicago
                     Theological Seminary in 1867 at the age of twenty-four.3
            
            McCulloch's first pastorate, which he assumed in 1870, was in Sheboygan, 
                        Wisconsin
                    , where he remained seven years. He received invitations to accept a ministry elsewhere
                    but not until 1877 did he consider them seriously. In March of that year, the 
                        Hanover
                     Street Church in Milwaukee asked him to be its minister. The opportunity attracted him:
                    the church was poor, small, and located among factories. He felt qualified for such work and
                    envisioned building a church similar to 
                        Henry
                     Ward Beecher's in 
                        Brooklyn
                    .4 But he decided to remain in Sheboygan, which he felt was his
                    home: he had come there with his bride; his two sons had been born and his wife Agnes had died
                    there; and he had many friends, "the dearest on earth" in Sheboygan. He recognized
                    that he had helped his parishioners through his sermons, his friendly relations with and
                    understanding of them, his power to make religious truths relevant to them, and his ability to
                    persuade them to accept these truths in their daily lives. He feared that if he left some in the
                    congregation, who had not been to church for years until they came to hear him, would no longer
                    attend church.5 On the other hand, the Sheboygan church was not united. In it
                    was a small, conservative group which acted as a "constant paralysis" to his
                    preaching. They objected to his proposal that the form of receiving members into the church be
                    changed to make it possible for persons to join without accepting the traditional creed, and they
                    criticized his presentation of new religious tenets based on recent scientific developments such as
                    Darwin's theory of evolution.6
            
            About a month after receiving the Milwaukee offer, McCulloch was invited to preach at the 
                        Plymouth
                     Congregational Church in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Commenting on his initial visit there, he wrote: "The church is much run
                    down. The congregations have been very small. Today they were about 175 each sermon."7 The 
                        Indianapolis
                     invitation had come about through the suggestion of a close friend of McCulloch, the
                    Reverend Myron Reed, who a few months earlier had become the minister of the First Presbyterian
                    Church in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . In describing the incident, Reed said that he had been mowing his lawn when a leading
                    member of the 
                        Plymouth
                     Church, Dr. O. 
                  
                     3 Isabel G. Barrows et al., "Tributes to
                            Oscar C. McCulloch," in Proceedings of the National Conference of
                                Charities and Correction, 1892 (n.p., n.d.), 230–50; Oscar C. McCulloch,
                            "Memoir," The Open Door (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1892), vii-xxi.
                  
                     4
                            
                                Henry
                             Ward Beecher was the first minister of the Second Presbyterian Church in 
                                Indianapolis
                            . In 1847 he left Indiana and became the minister of the newly organized 
                                Plymouth
                             Church (Congregational) of 
                        Brooklyn, New York
                     . He
                            used the pulpit for the discussion of public questions and for advocating reform.
                  
                     5 Oscar C. McCulloch Diary, March 13, 1877, Oscar C. McCulloch
                            Diaries, Indiana Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            . McCulloch was married in September, 1870, to Agnes Buel by whom he had two
                            sons. She died on August 31, 1874. His second marriage to Alice Barteau of Appleton, 
                                Wisconsin
                            , took place on May 8, 1878. She had been a member of his church in Sheboygan
                            and was the kindergarten teacher for his sons. Three daughters were born to this marriage.
                  
                     6
                            Ibid., July 3, 1877, March 9, 1884.
                  
                     7
                            Ibid., April 24, 1877.
               
                     S. Runnels, stopped at the gate and asked him if he knew of any
                    minister who "would do for the 
                        Plymouth
                     Church." He had referred him to Mr. McCulloch.8
            
            On May 12, 1877, McCulloch wrote in his diary: "Last night I red a 'call'
                    from the 
                        Plymouth
                     Ch at 
                        Indianapolis
                     which I shall have to consider. I wonder if I am to leave here." He proposed a
                    trial month of preaching so that the congregation might have a better basis for evaluating him as
                    its minister and he, a better basis on which to make his decision.9 He was
                    deeply perturbed about leaving Sheboygan and vacillated in his decision.10
                    Finally, on July 15, he tendered his resignation to the Sheboygan church. He preached his first
                    sermon as minister of 
                        Plymouth
                     Church on July 30.
            McCulloch saw in the 
                        Indianapolis
                     church an attentive, united congregation, part of a growing church in a growing
                    community. His impressions of 
                        Indianapolis
                     were that it was a city started under the influence of churches, with strong ministers
                    "who stamped the people with moral truths." He observed that the leading men,
                    professional and business, were church attendants and that a strong moral sentiment pervaded the
                    city. He commented, however, "As to the extent to which morals obtain, I cannot
                    say," and then added the significant remark, "They have not had much hand in
                    relieving the poor, I judge."11 The opportunity to help the 
                        Indianapolis
                     poor and to be free of the restraining influence in his Sheyboygan congregation was
                    undoubtedly a deciding factor in his acceptance of the 
                        Plymouth
                     Church ministry.
            The 
                        Plymouth
                     Church had been organized in 1857 as the first Congregational church in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Its founders held meetings, except for a brief period, in the senate chamber of the
                    state capitol until the front part of their church was completed in 1859. The entire structure was
                    not finished until 1867.12 The church was located on the west side of Meridian
                    Street opposite Christ Episcopal Church, between 
                        Ohio
                     Street and the Circle. It was heavily mortgaged and the membership was small when
                    McCulloch became its minister.13
            
            The city of 
                        Indianapolis
                     to which McCulloch came in 1877 was little more than a town in appearance and
                    services—only a few miles of street were paved, there was no sewer system, and the
                    telephone did not appear until late in 1877 and then only as a private enterprise.14 At the time Indi- 
                  
                     8
                            Centennial Memorial, 1823-1923, First Presbyterian Church, 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , Indiana (
                                Greenfield
                            , Ind., 1925), 167, 172.
                  
                     9 McCulloch Diary, May 22, 1877.
                  
                     10
                            Ibid., May 29, June 3, 6, 10, 29, July 3, 10, 21, 1877.
                  
                     11
                            Ibid., June 11, 1877.
                  
                     12 Ernestine Bradford Rose, The Circle (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1957), 394; Jacob Piatt Dunn, Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                : the History, the Industries, the Institutions, and the People of a City of
                                Homes (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1910), I, 604–605.
                  
                     13 McCulloch, The Open Door, ix.
                  
                     14 Dunn, Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                     , 311–12, 339.
               
                    
                    
                  THE FIRST PLYMOUTH (CONGREGATIONAL) CHURCH (LEFT), THE CIRCLE, INDIANAPOLIS,
                            1867–1882. CHRIST (EPISCOPAL) CHURCH IS ON THE RIGHT.
                  Courtesy W. H. Bass Photo Co., Inc., 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                anapolis was a railroad center.15
                    The monument to the war dead from which the Circle today takes its name had not been built; a simple
                    park with benches and a flagpole occupied the Circle's center.16 The
                    community was growing rapidly; the population was approaching 75,000, having increased from slightly
                    over 48,000 in 1870.17 People were moving "uptown," northward.
                    Most of the Circle's early homes had been torn down and replaced by office buildings or
                    remodeled for a variety of uses. In this area were the Public Library, the 
                        Franklin
                     Insurance Company, the homes of several newspapers— the Journal, the Sentinel, and the News—the Woods
                    Stables and Livery Service, a publishing firm, and the Remay Hotel, on property now occupied by H.
                    P. Wasson & Company.18 Several of the firms responsible for the
                    city's growth as an industrial and meat packing center were already in existence; among
                    these were the expanding stockyards of Kingan and Company and the pharmaceutical house of Eli Lilly
                    and Company.19
            
            Soon after commencing his new ministry, McCulloch began working on ways to extend the usefulness of
                    the church in the community. Printed cards "to be filled out as occasion may require, and
                    placed in the Pastor's Box in the vestibule of the Church" were distributed. The
                    card stated that the pastor welcomed information which would enable him to be more helpful to others
                    or which would be useful to him in his work, and that he wished especially to be notified promptly
                    of instances of sickness, destitution, or the presence of a stranger.20 He drew
                    up plans for organizations within the church which would help specific groups. These organizations
                    were the 
                        Plymouth
                     Christian 
                        Union
                     for "general charitable and relief purposes" outside the church; the 
                        Plymouth
                     Friendly Society to bring together the ladies of the church for "charitable,
                    hospitable and general work" within the church; and 
                        Plymouth
                     Institute, to be established for "literary and social culture of the young
                    people in the city."21
            
            Knowledge of the Reverend Dr. Edward Eggleston's Endeavor Club in 
                  Brooklyn, New
                    York
               , gave McCulloch his idea for a Young Men's Club which was formed
                    in January, 1878.22 His plan for initiating the club illustrates one 
                  
                     15 See W. R. Holloway, 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                , A Historical and Statistical Sketch of the 
                                    Railroad City
                                
                      (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1870).
                  
                     16 Rose, The Circle, 395, 397–402.
                  
                     17 U.S. Bureau of the Census, Population—Indiana, Fifteenth Census of the United States, 1930, Table
                            2, "Number and Distribution of Inhabitants," 4.
                  
                     18 Dunn, Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                     , 384–85, 419–20.
                  
                     19
                            Ibid., 257.
                  
                     20
                            
                                Plymouth
                             Church, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Pastor's Blank (n.p., n.d.) Printed card pasted in
                            McCulloch Diary, September 27, 1877.
                  
                     21 McCulloch Diary, September 26, 1877.
                  
                     22 Rev. Dr. Edward Eggleston formed the Endeavor Club at his
                                    
                        Brooklyn, New York
                     , church to bring together men of all classes
                            without distinction as to wealth, social position, or occupation. The club rented two pews
                            in the church which were free to any member and his friends. An important aspect of the
                            club's program was its provision of social services such as aid to the poor,
                            assistance to unemployed young men in finding work, and the provision of summers in the
                            country for sick children. See clipping pasted in McCulloch Diary, January 2, 1878.
               
                     of the keys to McCulloch's success in attracting people
                    to his church: a natural appeal, a lack of fanfare, and an offering of a service or program to which
                    people could relate without strict conformity to rules or beliefs. The inauguration of the Young
                    Men's Club was marked by a simple announcement that the minister would spend Monday
                    evenings in the parlor of the church. McCulloch arranged to have a few church members present and to
                    have magazines, books, and games available. Later, instructional talks were added, the first of
                    which was on the "new 'Arithmetic' or calculating machine."23
            
            While there was an initial response to the Young Men's Club, McCulloch's
                    congregation, like those of Christian churches in general, was not ready to give wholehearted
                    support to the development of a secular program. This lack of response may have been due in part to
                    the difficult times. The prolonged depression which began with the financial panic of 1873 was still
                    in force and 
                        Indianapolis
                     had been particularly hard hit.24 The church continued to be
                    heavily in debt and to have difficulty in raising funds for the minister's salary.
                    McCulloch himself had to collect pledges, secure loans, and repeatedly bring to the attention of the
                    trustees the fact that his salary was not paid on time. It is no wonder that he wrote in his diary:
                        
                        These days lie upon me as a great burden…. It may be due to the depressed times,
                            or to the dark grey days, I know not, but the people seem so miserable. The homes of the
                            poor are dark and bare. There are many out of work… many sick, sorrowing and
                                hopeless.25
                  
                     He recognized that social inequities could not be changed in a moment because of
                    "the shiftlessness of the poor or the indifference of the rich." But he was
                    disheartened because those who attended church seemed to have no interest in helping their
                    unfortunate fellow men. "They attend Church on Sunday," he wrote,
                    "but… the mid-day meeting, the activities of the church receive no enthusiastic
                    attention. The outlook is not altogether bright today."26
            
            McCulloch's preaching, however, attracted to the church a larger congregation and, as had
                    been true in Sheboygan, it included persons who were in agreement with his liberal interpretation of
                    Christianity. Some asked to become members of his church. Among them was David Starr Jordan, a
                    professor of natural history at 
                        Butler
                     University.27 In bringing Jordan's request before the
                    church committee, McCulloch was uncertain whether approval would be granted, for he wrote in his
                    diary: 
                        I brought the case before the Ch. Com. but did not think best to say anything of differences
                            of opinion which might exist. I did not ask what Jordan's opinions were 
                        
                           23 McCulloch Diary, October 2, November 13, 22, 1878.
                        
                           24 For further information on the economic status of 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     at this time, see Emma Lou Thornbrough, Indiana in the
                                        Civil War Era, 1850–1880 (The History of
                                    Indiana, Vol. III; 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , 1965).
                        
                           25 McCulloch Diary, December 14, 1878.
                        
                           26
                                    Ibid., October 2, November 13, 22, 1878.
                        
                           27 Jordan became president of Indiana University on January 1,
                                    1885. In 1891 he became the first president of Leland 
                                        Stanford
                                     Junior University, now 
                                        Stanford
                                     University.
                     
                             believing these to be unnec'ry….
                            There were no questions asked by the Com. They were glad to have him come.28
                  
                    
            
            McCulloch's liberal views and his respect for the opinions which others held may be seen in
                    his description of Jordan's uniting with the church. 
                        I asked if he had been baptised. He said 'No' but that believing in the thought he did not like the form as it was only a form.
                            I thought best to waive it. It is one of the forms that will soon disappear resting as it
                            does on a misconception of a text. It perhaps is needed by or for some, but others do not
                            need it. I shall be glad when it disappears.29
                  
                     He was particularly pleased by Jordan's concurrence in his religious teachings and
                    commented that he thought it was "a specimen of many cases… ready to join an
                    organization which stands for something in the world besides singing and praying."30
            
            Less than a week later, McCulloch was further encouraged by the receipt of a letter from another 
                        Butler
                     University professor, Melville B. Anderson, who also wanted to unite with 
                        Plymouth
                     Church on the grounds that it was trying to carry out the truths on which Christianity
                    was founded.31 "There does seem a new activity," wrote
                    McCulloch, who added, "The attendance upon the meetings of the activities seems much
                    greater. I think that the dry bones are going to live."32
            
            McCulloch was a slight wiry man who preached his sermons from a minimum of notes. His tone was more
                    conversational and his manner less formal than that of most ministers. His texts were chosen from
                    both the Old and New Testaments with the religious thoughts and lessons interpreted in terms of
                    current issues or commonplace happenings. The message directed at his listeners was clearly
                    expressed in well chosen but easily understood language. He did not hesitate to preach on the
                    relation of capital to labor, on labor unions, shorter working hours, the widespread dishonesty
                    existing in business practices, the exploitation of child labor and women workers, or the unsanitary
                    and crowded living conditions of the poor.33 He believed that anything which
                    concerned the welfare of individuals concerned the church. These social issues, which stemmed from
                    the industrial revolution and the unrest following the Civil War, caused growing concern during the
                    last quarter of the nineteenth century. They led to the rise of the Social Gospel movement to which
                    McCulloch contributed but which was exemplified more widely in the preachings and writings of 
                        Washington
                     Gladden, Josiah Strong, Walter Rauschenbusch and others.34
            
            
               
                  28 McCulloch Diary, January 12, 1879.
               
                        29
                        Ibid.
                    
               
                        30
                        Ibid.
                    
               
                  31 Melville B. Anderson to Oscar C. McCulloch, January 13, 1879. Loose in
                        McCulloch Diary.
               
                  32 McCulloch Diary, January 16, 1879.
               
                  33 These sermons can be found in the McCulloch Diary or in The Open Door, a collection of sermons given by McCulloch in 1890 and 1891.
               
                  34 The definitive work on the Social Gospel movement is Charles 
                            Howard
                         Hopkins, The Rise of the Social Gospel in American Protestantism,
                            1865–1915 (
                            New Haven
                        , 1940).
            
            
            McCulloch believed it was his business as a minister to concern himself with the cause of those who
                    worked; he stated that his sympathies were with those who lived "close to the line of bare
                        existence."35 He saw social unrest as characteristic of the times;
                    he believed the danger of this unrest threatening social institutions could be averted by organizing
                    trade unions. One of his sermons on this theme was taken from the text, "There be many
                    servants now a days that break away every man from his master" (I Samuel 15:10). While he
                    supported the formation of unions and emphasized that their members should know and dare to maintain
                    their rights, he also stressed that they should know their duties, practice selfcontrol,
                    nonviolence, and conciliation, and follow the cardinal doctrine of
                    Christianity—selfsacrifice—submitting the good of the individual to the good
                    of the class.36 In a Sunday evening sermon on "The Right of
                    Protest" he recognized the right of labor to strike and drew parallels with the Reformation
                    and its leader, 
                        Martin
                     Luther: "It is only by the protestants that the earth is kept alive. You and I
                    must protest against religious wrong, against political wrong, against social wrong. Then will come
                    the reformation. There is need of reformation, else there will be revolution."37
            
            In an attempt to call the attention of capitalists to the need of social reform, he preached a
                    sermon, "Boys Are Scarcer Than Dollars," based on the story of David and Absalom
                    (IV Samuel 18:33). In it he stressed the evils of dollar worship, child labor, and twelve-hour
                    working days.38 That all employers—housewives as well as their
                    husbands—should pay fair wages and abide by the Golden Rule was the message of another
                    sermon entitled "The Well-To-Do and the 
                        Ill-
                    To-Do."39
            
            Messages touching the common things of life were frequently brought to the congregation in sermons
                    with such subjects as "Freedom and Obligation," "The Value of our
                    Institutions," "The Value of Common Things," and "Young Men and
                    the Church."40 Sometimes he spoke without a text to emphasize the
                    problems of the poor in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the conditions at the county jail, the woman's prison, and the county
                    home—all of which he had learned from personal observation.41 He drew
                    on local and national events to involve his congregations in working toward social justice. In his
                    discourse, "Treatment of the Guilty," he criticized the people of the city for the
                    feeling of satisfied revenge which was evident when two murderers were convicted and punished by
                    execution. He urged his listeners to consider the conditions society allowed which contributed to
                    crimes and urged them 
                  
                     35
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Times, July 20, 1885.
                  
                            36
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     37 McCulloch Diary, November 11, 1883.
                  
                     38 McCulloch, The Open Door, 330–40.
                  
                     39
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, October 26, 1885.
                  
                     40 McCulloch Diary, March 4, May 25, 1884, October 6, 1885.
                  
                     41 McCulloch was in the habit of visiting these places to minister to
                            the inmates and to make investigations of conditions. He was accompanied by the Rev. Myron
                            Reed on some occasions.
               
                     to work toward the rehabilitation of offenders in prisons and
                    reform schools. He believed capital punishment had no power in deterring crime, but his prediction
                    that it must "soon be relegated to the past" because "better methods will
                    supersede it" is still waiting fulfillment in Indiana nearly ninety years later.42 The annual meeting of the American Public Health Association, held in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1882, gave McCulloch suggestions for a sermon on "The Health of the People,
                    a New Science," in which he referred to the interrelatedness of crime, vice, intemperance,
                    the lack of adequate housing, pure water, sufficient and pure food, and recreation.43 The Pullman and telegraphers strikes, the incident of the 
                        Chicago
                     anarchists, the railroad disaster at Ashtabula, 
                        Ohio
                    , the death of William Vanderbilt, "the richest man in all the earth,"
                    were all current events around which McCulloch built sermons.44
            
            Not all of the sermons which have just been described were preached at the Meridian Street location
                    of 
                        Plymouth
                     Church. In 1880, when financial problems of the church continued to be serious in spite
                    of two earlier canvasses of the congregation, a special meeting of the congregation was called
                    during May to consider what should be done.45 There is no mention of such a
                    meeting in McCulloch's diary or in later minutes of the Board of Trustees, nor is there
                    evidence that a memorandum in McCulloch's handwriting addressed to "Gentlemen of
                    the Board of Trustees" and inserted in his diary under August 10, 1880, was considered by
                    the trustees. This memorandum offered a plan for taking care of the mortgage and other indebtedness
                    of the church amounting to $14,000 which would become due on May 1, 1881. Set out in
                    detail, the plan indicated McCulloch's business acumen.46 He candidly
                    pointed out, however, that the first thing to consider was whether it was worthwhile to attempt to
                    save the church, a decision for the board to make. He proposed the issue in such a drastic manner to
                    force church members to take a stand and put the church on a sounder financial basis. In
                    McCulloch's opinion this action—maintaining the church—was advisable.
                    His reasons included the church's excellent central location and the "prestige
                    attached to long occupancy."47
            
            Since the minutes of the board do not reflect any discussion of McCulloch's proposal for
                    amortizing the church debt, it seems probable that it was not presented to them because of plans
                    William H. English had of 
                  
                     42
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Sentinel, February 3, 1879.
                  
                     43
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, October 28, 1882.
                  
                     44
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, July 23, 1883; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, November 29, 1886; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Times, December 21, 1885.
                  
                     45 Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Trustees, May 4, 1880.
                  
                     46 The plan which McCulloch proposed for taking care of the debts of 
                                Plymouth
                             Church involved the formation of a new organization which would take over the
                            ownership of the church by selling shares to interested persons. Regular dividends wiuld be
                            secured through the rent paid by the church. McCulloch indicated in the plan how much would
                            be amortized each year from 1882 to 1891, when the entire debt would be paid off.
                  
                     47 McCulloch Diary, August 10, 1880.
               
                     extending and developing his real estate holdings on the
                    northwest side of the Circle.48 English offered to buy the 
                        Plymouth
                     Church property and lease the building to the congregation for $900 a year.
                    The purchase price of $15,000 was little more than the mortgage on the church but it was
                    accepted since a proposed building to be constructed by English would have cut off air and light
                    from the south side of the church.49
            
            
               
                        Plymouth
                     Church continued to occupy its original building until January, 1883. McCulloch
                    preached his last sermon there on December 31, 1882.50 During his ministry at
                    this location, the membership grew very slowly, financial support was difficult, and the
                    "institutional" program became well established, but did not experience any
                    outstanding period of expansion. To be sure, the Young Men's Club had been put on a firmer
                    basis in 1879 with a more active program; weekday talks on social topics and Sunday evening lectures
                    had been instituted. David Starr Jordan had delivered the first of these lectures on
                    "Agassiz or the Religion of Science." The Ladies 
                        Union
                     of the church had established an industrial school to teach sewing to young girls and a
                    maternity society to help women during confinement.51 In September, 1881,
                    McCulloch proposed to the Board of Trustees a resumption of the Sunday evening service which had
                    been discontinued in 1879 so that he could devote more time to the development of the Sunday
                        School.52 Like many other Social Gospel ministers, McCulloch was concerned
                    that his church was not reaching the laboring classes. Therefore, he desired to have Sunday evening
                    services devoted "especially to railroad men and mechanics and those who did not attend
                    church anywhere," and to have a short address and a half hour's concert and song
                    service with a quartet-choir.53 The members of the board were wholeheartedly in
                    favor of this plan and gave unanimous approval to McCulloch's request to have the proceeds
                    of the evening collection set aside for the payment of the choir or other special uses of the
                        service.54
            
            Printed circulars were distributed to announce the resumption of Sunday evening services and the
                    series of "Talks on Simple Subjects."55 At the first service,
                    about seventy-five attended and $3.68 was collected. Rationalization by McCulloch of the
                    small attendance is indicated by the comment in his diary that the evening was "very
                        rainy."56 The following week, the congrega- 
                  
                     48 William H. English, a prominent and wealthy businessman in 
                                Indianapolis
                            , had been the vice presidential candidate in 1880 on the Democratic ticket with
                            General Winfield H. Hancock running for President. English was active in Indiana politics in
                            the middle of the nineteenth century and was secretary of the convention that framed the
                            Indiana Constitution of 1851.
                  
                     49 Minutes of the meetings of the Board of Trustees, December 3, 16,
                            1880.
                  
                     50 McCulloch Diary, January 1, 1883.
                  
                     51
                            Ibid., March 2, 1879, March 29, 1880.
                  
                     52 Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Trustees, November 14, 1879.
                  
                     53
                            Ibid., September 29, 1881.
                  
                            54
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     55
                            
                                Plymouth
                             Church, Talks on Simple Subjects (n.p., n.d.). Printed
                            announcement pasted in McCulloch Diary, October 2, 1881.
                  
                     56 McCulloch Diary, October 2, 1881.
               
                     tion was about 300. "Too respectable," wrote
                    McCulloch, "but with a strong sprinkling of the special class I wish."57 And on the succeeding Sunday, he noted a larger representation of workingmen
                    and their wives in the audience of 400.58 A variety of topics was offered and
                    speakers other than McCulloch were drawn upon. "Co-operation or How the Rochdale Weavers
                    Made Money" and, on the succeeding Sunday, "Co-operation in Industry"
                    were among the topics given by McCulloch.59 Daniel P. Baldwin, attorney general
                    of Indiana, spoke on "Lessons from the Life of [James A.] Garfield."60 The following year, in a lecture series entitled "Workers with God,"
                    McCulloch discussed Charles Dickens, a writer whose life and characters exemplified charity and
                    sympathy toward all human beings, and Alfred Tennyson, whom he characterized as a worker with God in
                        poetry.61
            
            McCulloch received both approbation and criticism as a result of the lecture series. The talks were
                    hailed by the Republican, a local labor union newspaper, as a "move in
                    the right direction," and the editor of the Sentinel, the leading
                    Democrat newspaper in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , praised McCulloch for instituting services at which programs would be devoted to the
                    discussion of subjects related to the "betterment of society" and where the
                    working people could listen to a theology that touched "heart and pocket, life and
                        living."62 David Swing, a progressive minister in 
                        Chicago
                    , wrote McCulloch praising him for his ability to start a lecture course in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and added, "In many good acts you are a master workman."63
            
            The editor of the Iconoclast, a weekly free thought journal in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , in agreement with, but overstating McCulloch's position on orthodox Christian
                    beliefs, referred to him as one of the progressive ministers of the age, describing him as
                    "a searcher after truth," a man who was "struggling to free himself from
                    the fetters of orthodoxy," and who was "little, if anything, more than an Orthodox
                    Christian in name." He predicted that as a student of Huxley, Tyndal, and Darwin, McCulloch
                    would soon find his services as a preacher of Congregational doctrines no longer needed and that he
                    would be "invited by his brethren to step down and out from the pulpit."64 The editor asked McCulloch to engage in a dialogue through the columns of the
                        Iconoclast with Colonel Robert G. Ingersoll on the truths of the Christian
                        religion.65 In contrast, the general secretary of the YMCA, Reverend Leander
                        
                  
                     57
                            Ibid., October 9, 1881.
                  
                     58
                            Ibid., October 16, 1881.
                  
                     59
                            Ibid., November 13, 20, 1881.
                  
                     60
                            Ibid., November 6, 1881. President Garfield had died two months
                            previously.
                  
                     61
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, April 24, 1882.
                  
                     62
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Republican, October 15, 1881; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, November 13, 1881.
                  
                     63 David Swing to Oscar McCulloch, November 11, 1882. Pasted in
                            McCulloch Diary.
                  
                     64 Clipping from the Iconoclast, n.d., in McCulloch
                            Diary, 1882.
                  
                     65 McCulloch Diary, April, 1882. McCulloch sometimes did not indicate
                            the specific date on his entries in the diary. Articles by Robert G. Ingersoll, noted
                            agnostic, orator, and lawyer, were featured in the Iconoclast.
               
                     W. Munhall, was outspoken in condemning McCulloch, saying that
                    he was "doing more hurt in 
                        Indianapolis
                     than all the ministers can do good," and criticizing him for his reference to
                    Dickens as a "worker with God."66 Munhall was often in
                    conflict with McCulloch because McCulloch did not preach atonement. While he was sensitive to
                    challenge and criticism, McCulloch did not engage in discussions of religious controversy. Referring
                    in his diary in April, 1882, to the Iconoclast editor's request,
                    McCulloch wrote: "I declined, quoting from Jeh 'I cannot come down.' For
                    the past month he [the editor] has been at church once or twice each Sunday. He is evidently a man
                    with a crack in his head. Thinks he has a mission."67
            
            The question of a new home for 
                        Plymouth
                     Church and a proposal presented by McCulloch for a cooperative society to purchase the
                    lot on the southeast corner of Meridian and 
                        New York
                     streets, where the Federal Building now stands, were discussed in informal meetings of
                    church members in June and July, 1882. During the remainder of 1882 and early 1883 at meetings of
                    the Board of Trustees, the church membership, and a building committee, the purchase of property at
                    the corner of Meridian and 
                        New York
                     was effected. The plans for the new building were approved, and sufficient funds were
                    assured through subscriptions and the sale of bonds to warrant letting of the contract for the new
                    building in April, 1883. Because English's proposition for renewal of the lease of the old
                    church building had objectionable features, the Board of Trustees approved an offer to rent the
                    Grand Opera House until the new church was completed. This plan was later affirmed by the membership
                    and during 1883 all church services and programs were held in the opera house located at
                    Pennsylvania and Market streets.68 At this location, the size of the morning
                    congregations averaged 500 and although in the first few months the attendance at the Sunday evening
                    service was between 200 and 300, it later ranged from 650 to 1,000 when the "weather was
                        good."69
            
            
               
                        Plymouth
                     Church held its first service in its new building on January 27, 1884. Over 1,000
                    persons were in attendance at the opening services, both morning and evening.70
                    McCulloch received a number of congratulatory letters, one from a friend in 
                  Jacksonville, Florida
               , who referred to his "good judgment to plan, and skill,
                    perservance and grit to complete a church which is an ornament to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and a credit to you personally." The author continued: "I am proud
                    of you as a man, and admire you as a pastor. You have been a blessing to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and your teachings and what you propose to do in the future commend itself to every
                    true man."71
            
            
               
                  66
                        Ibid., April 24, 1882.
               
                  67
                        Ibid., April, 1882.
               
                  68 Minutes of the meetings of the Board of Trustees, August 1, October 30,
                        November 24, December 19, 1882, February 23, March 1, April 9, 1883.
               
                  69 McCulloch Diary, "Cash Accounts," closing pages of
                        1883.
               
                  70 McCulloch Diary, January 27, 1884.
               
                  71 N. A. Eddy to Oscar C. McCulloch, February 7, 1884, in McCulloch Diary,
                        January 26, 1884.
            
            
            
               THE SECOND PLYMOUTH CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH, MERIDIAN AND NEW YORK STREETS, 1884–1897.
                        Courtesy Indiana Division, Indiana State Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
            
            
            Another correspondent, Hugo O. Pantzer, though not in agreement with McCulloch's religious
                    views, wrote him nonetheless to express his personal satisfaction in the minister's
                    efforts. He attributed McCulloch's success to a "sincere and earnest conviction
                    carried by a courageous and untiring effort," and added: "By your ways you set an
                    inspiring and worthy example for which I personally thank you. The manifold, good and liberal
                    purpose of the edifice you planned and realized does you honor."72
            
            Architecturally the new building was less attractive than the old one. It had more the appearance of
                    a school than a place of worship; its style was functional rather than the traditional Gothic of its
                    former home. But McCulloch's intent was that the building should be both a
                    people's church and a people's college, and he had designed it with a wide variety
                    of uses in mind.73 The auditorium, which had over 1,200 seats, including
                    approximately 350 in the gallery, was to be used for church services, concerts, public meetings, and
                    "other gatherings for public good."74 Smaller rooms were
                    provided for classes, games, and a library, and other space was available for lease to civic
                    organizations such as the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Benevolent Society, the Charity Organization Society, the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Literary Club, and the Woman's Club.75
            
            McCulloch was the president of both the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Benevolent Society and the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Charity Organization Society. He had revitalized the first soon after coming to 
                        Indianapolis
                     when it was about to be disbanded and had created the second in 1879 because of his
                    conviction that the most economical and best way to help the poor was through an organization of
                    charitable agencies.76 When it became known that these societies were to have
                    their headquarters in the new 
                        Plymouth
                     Church building, criticism was sharp. It came primarily from ministers of other
                    denominations who were jealous of the income 
                        Plymouth
                     Church would receive in rent. The Methodist ministers even went so far as to form a
                    committee to make an investigation of the two societies and their relationship to the 
                        Plymouth
                     Church.77 Articles and letters to the editor appeared in the
                    newspapers; one Baptist minister took the position that the "charities of the city, like
                    the public school system, ought to have no organic or official connection whatever with any
                        sect."78 McCulloch had sufficient support for his plan, however,
                    from the Reverend Myron Reed 
                  
                     72 Hugo O. Pantzer to Oscar C. McCulloch, January 25, 1884. Loose in
                            McCulloch Diary, January 27, 1884. Hugo Otto Pantzer was an outstanding physician who
                            belonged to no church and probably was a member of the German Free Thinkers group in 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                  
                     73 Clipping in McCulloch Diary, January 14, 1884.
                  
                     74 Clippings in McCulloch Diary, January 4, 18, 1884.
                  
                            75
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     76 McCulloch Diary, December 4, 5, 1879; McCulloch, The
                                Open Door, xviii. McCulloch became nationally known for his leadership and genius
                            in charity organization. See National Conference of Charities and Correction, Proceedings, 1880–1891.
                  
                     77
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, November 28, 1883.
                  
                     78
                            Ibid., November 29, 1883.
               
                     of the First Presbyterian Church and from others so that both
                    societies did move to the new building.79
            
            Two events of special significance to McCulloch as well as to the development of 
                        Plymouth
                     Church occurred during its first year in its new home: the amendment of the church
                    constitution and the organization of the 
                        Plymouth
                     Institute.80 Both events must have given McCulloch great
                    satisfaction. The amended constitution stated that all persons were eligible for membership who
                    pledged themselves willing "to undertake such work as may be thought to lie within the
                    scope of a Christian church." An applicant was not committed to any particular philosophy
                    of faith; a Christian spirit and Christian character were the only requisites of membership.81 This change was recognized as responsible for a very encouraging increase in
                    the church membership.82 As noted previously, a similar change, desired by
                    McCulloch but rejected by his congregation in Sheboygan, had led to his resignation as minister
                    there.
            The organization of the 
                        Plymouth
                     Institute in November, 1884, fulfilled McCulloch's early plan for the church
                    program to provide educational and cultural opportunities for the young people of the community. Its
                    specific purpose was stated as "increasing fellowship among young people… and
                    bringing them under such influences as shall secure their moral, educational, industrial and social
                    advancement by the best practical methods."83 McCulloch hoped its
                    development and value would be comparable to that of the Young Men's Christian 
                        Union
                     and the Women's Educational and Industrial 
                        Union
                     of 
                        Boston
                    , the Cooper Institute in 
                        New York
                    , and the Athenaeum in 
                        Chicago
                    .84 Fifty young persons were present at the first meeting and 38
                    became members.85 Within three months, there were 97 enrollees in classes in
                    literature, French, German, current history, stenography, bookkeeping, drawing, and elocution. By
                    the end of the first year 179 young people had joined.86 Most of the classes met
                    in the evening as they were intended primarily to serve people who were employed. The students, for
                    the most part, were young men and women who worked in stores, offices, shops, and factories. The
                    popularity of the program can be seen by the fact that many of the students entered two or more
                        classes.87 In its offering of classes the 
                        Plymouth
                     Institute was like the Univeristy Extension Movement in England 
                  
                     79
                            Ibid., November 28, 1883.
                  
                     80 McCulloch Diary, May 6, November 7, 1884.
                  
                     81
                            Church Membership, 
                                    Plymouth
                                 Congregational Church (n.p., 1884), in McCulloch Diary, October 7,
                            1884. The name of the church was also changed from 
                                Plymouth
                             Church to 
                                Plymouth
                             Congregational Church on the same date that the constitution was amended, April
                            3, 1884.
                  
                     82
                            
                        
                                    Plymouth
                                 Congregational Church Register (n.p., January 8, 1885).
                  
                     83
                            The 
                                    Plymouth
                                 Institute (n.p., n.d.), in McCulloch Diary, November 7, 1884.
                  
                            84
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     85 McCulloch Diary, November 18, 1884.
                  
                     86
                            Ibid., February 14, 1885; Year Book, 
                                    Plymouth
                                 Church, for the Year Ending December 31, 1885 (n.p., n.d.).
                  
                     87
                            Year Book, 1885, 14, 15.
               
                     with which McCulloch was familiar.88 His
                    efforts contributed greatly to adult education classes in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            The number and variety of courses offered by the 
                        Plymouth
                     Institute grew as interest increased. The program was frequently referred to as
                    "a school for intellectual and moral culture," or "a school for busy
                        people."89 A fee of $1.00 per year entitled a member to
                    the use of the reading room and to attendance at general meetings and special lectures. Fees for
                    specific classes ranged from $1.00 to $2.50 per course.90
            
            To extend his idea of a church program with practical aims, McCulloch created the 
                        Plymouth
                     Savings & Loan Association in March, 1885, for the benefit of the congregation
                    and members of 
                        Plymouth
                     Institute.91 Its objective was to provide a safe and profitable
                    investment through small weekly installments toward the purchase of shares of $200 each.
                    A second objective was to loan money on easy terms to enable persons to purchase or build homes, pay
                    off mortgages, or provide business capital.92 This association proved to be so
                    popular that a second one was established in November, 1886.93
            
            McCulloch instituted several other secular programs and facilities to extend the usefulness of the
                    church. They included the 
                        Plymouth
                     Book Club, through which individuals could purchase books at special prices; a library
                    (in addition to the reading rooms which provided members of the Young Men's Club and of 
                        Plymouth
                     Institute with many current newspapers and periodicals); and a boys'
                    orchestra. A gymnasium was also opened and classes in physical culture were offered to both boys and
                        girls.94 Members of the congregation and of the community had the
                    opportunity to hear nationally known persons who were invited to preach at the Sunday morning and
                    evening services or to speak in the lecture series which was offered each year. Among the speakers
                    were Mrs. Mary Livermore, Matthew Arnold, 
                  
                     88
                            
                        
                                    Plymouth
                                 Institute, 
                                    Plymouth
                                 Church, Announcements for the Year 1890–91 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , n.d.), in McCulloch Diary, October 10, 1890.
                  
                     89 A printed flyer in McCulloch Diary, October 26, 1886, announcing
                            the lecture course at 
                                Plymouth
                             Institute and a printed leaflet in McCulloch Diary, October 10, 1890, giving
                            the program for 1890–91, use the term "school for intellectual and moral
                            culture." The program is referred to as a "school for busy
                            people" in a printed card found in the McCulloch Diary, September 30, 1886. This
                            card announces the annual meeting of the 
                                Plymouth
                             Institute to be held on October 1, 1886.
                  
                     90
                            
                        
                                    Plymouth
                                 Institute, 
                                    Plymouth
                                 Church, Announcements for the Year 1890–91.
                  
                     91 McCulloch Diary, March 14, 1885.
                  
                     92
                            
                        
                                    Plymouth
                                 Savings & Loan Association, Constitution and By-Laws (n.p.,
                            n.d.), in McCulloch Diary, March 14, 1885.
                  
                     93
                            
                        
                                    Plymouth
                                 Savings & Loan Association, No. 2, Constitution and By-Laws
                            (n.p., n.d.), in McCulloch Diary, December 7, 1886. These two associations were distinct
                            from the Dime Savings & Loan Association, incorporated March 31, 1887, under the
                            Building and Loan Association Laws of the state. The latter was formed with Oscar McCulloch
                            as president under the aegis of the Charity Organization Society. Its purpose was similar to
                            those of the 
                                Plymouth
                             Associations and its principal objective was to extend the benefits of the
                            building association idea to those not generally reached. See 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, January 4, 1888, and various circulars in the McCulloch Diary, March
                            24, 1887.
                  
                     94
                            
                                Plymouth
                             Book Club, Sunday Circle and Harvest Sunday
                            (n.p., n.d.). Printed materials in McCulloch Diary, 1888, 1889, 1890.
               
                    
                    
                        Henry
                     George, 
                        Henry
                     Ward Beecher, Lyman Abbott, Felix Adler, Amelia B. Edwards, and Henry M. Stanley.95 Individuals from the community whose varying points of view McCulloch thought
                    should be presented to 
                        Plymouth
                     Church audiences or whose backgrounds qualified them to participate in the lecture
                    series being offered were also drawn upon. For example, three representatives of
                    labor—David F. Kennedy, Thomas M. Gruelle, and William M. Nichols—spoke on
                    "What can the Workingmen do for the Churches?"96 McCulloch
                    himself carried a large share of the lectures, drawing upon his rich background and extensive
                    knowledge of literature, history, and science.
            McCulloch continuously experimented with ways of reaching laboring men and women and bringing them
                    into the church. One of his most successful experiments, which was copied elsewhere, was the
                    illustrated sermon. Stereoptican slides of well-known paintings were shown in connection with Sunday
                    evening services. At the first illustrated sermon, the topic was "Christ in Art"
                    which was illustrated by such pictures as Correggio's "Holy Night,"
                    Raphael's "Sistine Madonna," Hoffman's "Chirst in the
                    Temple," and Del Sarto's "Baptism of Christ." Hymns were also
                    projected on the screen and sung by the congregation. At a later service, he used
                    "Laocoön" and "Apollo Belvidere" to illustrate
                    Paul's thought of "Bondage and Freedom." Slides of paintings were also
                    used with sermons such as "The Childhood of Jesus," "The Sermon on the
                    Mount," and "Teaching by Parables." People soon filled the auditorium,
                    with, at times, 100 to 200 people being turned away; the increase in the collection was sufficient
                    to pay for the cost of the slides.97 McCulloch also reported "a largely
                    increased congregation" at the Sunday morning service, a fourfold attendance gain at weekly
                    meetings, and young people "numbering 100 strong" in the Sunday School.98
            
            
               
                  95 Mrs. Mary Livermore, reformer, suffragist, and author, was a well-known
                        platform speaker on social questions and topics of history, biography, politics, and education.
                        Two areas in which her influence was highly felt were the education of women and temperance.
                        Matthew Arnold was an English poet and critic who lectured in the United States in
                        1883–1884 and 1886. 
                            Henry
                         George was an economist and reformer, founder of the single-tax movement and author
                        of Progress and Poverty. 
                            Henry
                         Ward Beecher was a Congregational clergyman who exerted wide influence throughout
                        the country. Lyman Abbott was a Congregational minister whose first church was in 
                            Terre Haute
                        , Indiana. He was also an editor and author and was associated with 
                            Henry
                         Ward Beecher in the editorship of the Christian 
                                Union
                            
                  . Later he became the chief editor and changed the name to the Outlook. At Beecher's death, he succeeded him as minister of the 
                            Plymouth
                         Congregational Church in 
                     Brooklyn,
                                New York
                  . Felix Adler was the
                        founder of the Society for Ethical Culture in 
                            New York
                        . Amelia B. Edwards was an English novelist and Egyptologist who published papers
                        and lectured on Egyptology. Henry M. Stanley was an African explorer, author of How
                            I Found Livingston and Through the Dark Continent. These speakers are
                        listed in the McCulloch Diary, January 9 and February 4, 1884, April 7, 1885, February 16, 1887,
                        February 9, 1889, and February 26, 1890.
               
                  96 McCulloch Diary, January 25, 1891; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, January 26, 1891. Gruelle was president of the Central Labor 
                            Union
                         and publisher of The Labor Signal. Kennedy was president of the
                        Stonecutter's 
                            Union
                        , and Nichols was a member of the Typographical 
                            Union
                        .
               
                  97 Clippings from The Golden Rule in McCulloch Diary,
                        February 24, March 31, 1888; Slide List of Pictures, 
                                Plymouth
                             Church, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                   (n.p., n.d.). Printed folder in McCulloch Diary, January 17, 1889.
               
                  98 McCulloch Diary, July 2, 1888.
            
            
            In a message to the people of his church in 1889, he wrote: "The work we have undertaken to
                    do is part of a new movement in church work, it may be called a new departure in Christianity. It is
                    the attempt to put the church in touch with the masses of the people."99 He went on to say that the problem of the modern city church was to find ways of utilizing
                    the best results of scientific and critical thought, of reaching those who did not attend church,
                    interesting the "restless young," teaching the ignorant the ways of a better life,
                    and alleviating and preventing the troubles of the poor. He concluded his message by pointing out
                    that it was the responsibility of members of 
                        Plymouth
                     Church to help solve these problems by working through the four central ideas of the
                    church program—worship, education, social life, and charity—and that it was as
                    important for them to help the people of their own community as to support missionary work in the
                    remote parts of the world.100
            
            McCulloch's concept of the responsibility of church members and the church program to the
                    community was an extension of his concept of how a minister should relate to the community. He held
                    that a minister must identify himself with the community's life and concerns—the
                    welfare and education of its children, the organization of its character, its moral condition, and
                    its commercial and industrial interests.101 McCulloch carried out this
                    philosophy in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and, in some respects, in the wider community of the state and the country. He either
                    led or founded nearly all of the social agencies in existence during the fourteen years he lived in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Many of these agencies are still operating today although in some instances their
                    names have changed. His interest and contribution to the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Benevolent Society and the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Charity Organization Society have already been mentioned. Other important agencies with
                    which he was associated and whose programs he influenced included the Friendly Inn and Woodyard; the
                    Children's Aid Society; the Free Kindergarten; the Flower Mission Training School for
                    Nurses, which was established within the city hospital in 1883, and which two years later made
                    possible the initiation of a visiting nurse service to the sick poor; and the Summer Mission for
                    Sick Children, a fresh air camp constructed in Fairview Park, now the location of 
                        Butler
                     University.102
            
            Service to charitable agencies was not the only area in which McCulloch carried out what he believed
                    were his civic responsibilities. He was a member of the board of directors of the Art School; he
                    served as librarian of the city librarians in 1879 until a new librarian was secured; he lectured at 
                        Butler
                     University, the State Normal School at 
                        Terre Haute
                    , and Indiana University at 
                        Bloomington
                    . When the Commercial Club, predecessor of the 
                  
                     99
                            Work and Plans for 1890, 
                                    Plymouth
                                 Church, December, 1889 (n.p., n.d.). Printed message to members of 
                                Plymouth
                             Church from the minister; in McCulloch Diary, December 4, 1889.
                  
                            100
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     101 Oscar C. McGulloch, "Permanent Pastorates," Christian 
                                    Union
                                
                      (June, 1883), in McGulloch Diary, June 29, 1883. Probably a letter to
                            the editor.
                  
                     102 McGulloch, The Open Door, xix; McCulloch Diary,
                            various years.
               
                    
                    
                        Indianapolis
                     Chamber of Commerce, was organized in 1890 he became a member and was influential in
                    directing the club toward civic improvements.103 McCulloch's most
                    outstanding contribution at the state level was probably his formulation of bills which were enacted
                    into law in 1889 creating the State Board of Charities and the Board of Children's
                        Guardians.104 At the national level, he was a leading member of the National
                    Conference of Charities and Correction from 1879 until his death, serving as chairman or member of
                    the Standing Committee on Charitable Organization in Cities for eight years, as secretary in 1886
                    and 1887, as vice president in 1890, and as president in 1891.105 His
                    contributions to these communities—city, state, and nation—outside of the 
                        Plymouth
                     Church indicate that McCulloch's development of an "institutional
                    church" program is but one part of the story of his life.106
            
            McCulloch died of Hodgkin's disease on December 10, 1891, at the age of forty-eight. With
                    his death, 
                        Plymouth
                     Church lost its most illustrious minister, and the most extensive and active period of
                    development and influence in the church's history came to an end. For approximately a
                    decade, 
                        Plymouth
                     Church had been the center of cultural and charitable activities of the city, but the
                    program which McCulloch developed came at least ten years too soon to be sustained without his
                    vision and leadership.107 During the 1890's and immediately after the
                    turn of the century, the kind of church which he had helped to build grew rapidly in other cities of
                    the country. Contributing to the expansion of these churches was the formation in 1894 of the Open
                    and Institutional Church League. The league was a national body which formalized a platform for
                    institutional churches, conducted annual conventions, and published a monthly paper, The Open Door, to deal with varied aspects of the problems and programs of these city
                        churches.108
            
            McCulloch's successor, Frederick E. Dewhurst, established a neighborhood settlement house
                    which took over much of the 
                        Plymouth
                     Institute program.109 In 1903 the institutional character of the
                    church was further changed when 
                  
                            103
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     104
                            Laws of Indiana (1889), ch. 37, 51; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, November 30, 1882; McCulloch Diary, March 8, 1889, February 25,
                            1891.
                  
                     105 National Conference of Charities and Correction, Proceedings, various years.
                  
                     106 A previous article presents McCulloch as a leader in organized
                            charity. See Genevieve C. Weeks, "Oscar C. McCulloch: Leader in Organized
                            Charity," Social Service Review, XXXIX (June, 1965),
                            209–21.
                  
                     107 Frederick Doyle 
                                Kershner
                            , Jr., "A Social and Cultural History of 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1860–1914," (unpublished Ph.D. dissertation, University of 
                                Wisconsin
                            , January, 1950), 218–20.
                  
                     108 Charles L. Thompson, "An Agency in Accord with the Spirit
                            and Method of the Gospel," 560–61; Aaron Ignatius Abell, The Urban Impact on American Protestantism, 1865–1900 (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1943), 163.
                  
                     109 Ruth McCulloch, "
                                Plymouth
                             Church-II," Indiana Magazine of History, VII
                            (September, 1911), 99. The institutional church program helped in accelerating the
                            development of settlement houses which, in many instances, took over programs such as those
                            started at 
                                Plymouth
                             Church.
               
                     its property was purchased by the government for the Federal
                    Building and the church moved from, the center of the city to the southeast corner of Fourteenth
                    Street and Central Avenue.110
            
            There is ample evidence that McCulloch's personality, executive capacity, sincerity, ability
                    to present the need for social reform, and his example as a compassionate "doer"
                    strengthened and extended the 
                        Plymouth
                     Church program and influenced the degree of participation by its members. The church
                    was open every day in the year and was in use throughout the day and evening. Thus, the legend
                    inscribed over the main entrance of the 
                        Plymouth
                     Church on Meridian Street, "The gates of it shall not be shut by
                    day," was fulfilled.111
            
            
               
                  110 Ruth McCulloch, "
                            Plymouth
                         Church-II," 99.
               
                  111 McCulloch Diary, February 7, 1885.
            
         
         
         
            Memorial Tribuite to John D. Barnhart
            John D. Barnhart was born at 
                  Decatur, Illinois
               , September 22, 1895. After graduating from the local
                    high school he enrolled at 
                        Illinois
                     Wesleyan University which awarded him the Bachelor of Arts degree in 1916. Three years
                    later he received the Master of Arts in history from Northwestern University, and in 1930 he was
                    granted the doctorate in history from 
                        Harvard
                     University. At 
                        Harvard
                     he devoted his major attention to American history. Here he became first a student and
                    then a disciple of the distinguished historian, Frederick 
                        Jackson
                     Turner.
            From 1921 until his retirement in 1965 Professor Barnhart taught in a number of colleges and
                    universities, including 
                        Nebraska
                     Wesleyan University, the University of 
                        Nebraska
                    , the University of West 
                  Virginia,
                            Louisiana
                State University, the College
                    of William and Mary, and Indiana University. Professor Barnhart was a member of the history faculty
                    at Indiana University during the academic year 1925–1926, the summer of 1936, and then
                    from 1941 until his retirement to emeritus service in 1965. From 1947 until 1953 he served the
                    department as its chairman, and during the period 1941 to 1955 he edited the Indiana
                        Magazine of History.
            As a teacher and writer Professor Barnhart's principal interest was the history of the
                        Ohio Valley and the Old Northwest. He was the author of more than two dozen
                    articles and many book reviews which appeared in historical quarterlies throughout the United
                    States. His first published volume was 
                  
                            Henry
                            Hamilton
                         and George Rogers 
                            Clark
                         in the American Revolution in the West (1951), followed by Valley
                        of Democracy: The Frontier Versus the Plantation in the Ohio Valley
               
                    (1953) in which he tested the application of Turner's frontier hypothesis to the
                        Ohio Valley. His next publication was devoted to state and local history:
                        Indiana: From Frontier to Industrial Commonwealth (2 vols., 1954), co-authored
                    with Donald F. Carmony. A byproduct of this history was Indiana: The Hoosier State
                    (1959; rev. 1963), co-authored with Donald F. Carmony, Opal M. Nichols, and Jack E. Weicker. This
                    book has been used as a junior high school history text in Indiana schools.
            As editor of the Indiana Magazine of History Professor Barnhart edited perhaps six
                    or seven thousand pages of articles, documents, and book reviews. In his research and writing he
                    reflected the basic views of his mentor, Frederick 
                        Jackson
                     Turner, concerning the impact of the American frontier on the development of American
                    life and institutions. Professor Barnhart's work also gave much emphasis to the
                    contributions of southerners to the development of the Ohio Valley and Old
                    Northwest, especially during the period from about 1750 through the Civil War years.
            In spite of the enormous amount of time he gave to teaching, research, editing, writing, and
                    administration, Professor Barnhart also gave much time to professional organizations and public
                    service. During World War II he served as chairman of the Indiana War History Commission; he was
                    chairman of the Indiana Territorial Sesquicentennial Commission in 1950; he served as a 
                    
                  JOHN D BARNHART Reproduced from John D. Barnhart and Donald F. Carmony, Indiana:
                                From Frontier to Industrial Commonwealth (4 vols.; 
                                New York
                            , 1954), IV, ff. 670.
               
                     member of the executive committee of the Mississippi
                        Valley Historical Association, 1942–1946, as chairman of the program
                    committee for its annual conference in 1948, and as a member of its Board of Editors for the 
                  Mississippi Valley Historical Review, 1954–1956.
                    During 1947–1948 he was president of the Indiana History Teachers Association; during the
                    three years from 1957 through 1959, he served as president of the Indiana Historical Society, and he
                    was a member of its executive committee from 1949 until his death. For a number of years in the
                    fifties and sixities he was a member of the Advisory Committee on History to the Secretary of the
                    Navy. For many years, and until illness compelled him to withdraw, he was a member of 
                        Bloomington
                     Rotary. In these and other ways he contributed significantly and generously to his
                    profession and to public service.
            Through the years Professor Barnhart had a devoted interest in his students, undergraduates and
                    graduates alike. Although committed to his own high principles of scholarship and character, he
                    exercised understanding, kindness, generosity, and restraint in his evaluation of colleagues and
                    students. During the long illness which preceded his death on December 25, 1967, he exhibited
                    infinite patience, forbearance, and heroism. Professor Barnhart is survived by his widow, Mrs. Zella
                    Barnhart, whom he married in 1917. Two children, Frank Barnhart, of 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana, and Mrs. Frances Zorn, of 
                  Ann
                        Arbor, Michigan
               , both graduates
                    of Indiana University, and five grandchildren survive. To all of them the current editor of the Indiana Magazine of History extends his deep sympathy and his own abiding sense of
                    personal loss.
            The following chronological listing includes all articles indicated by Professor Barnhart in a
                    personal data sheet submitted to the Department of History, Indiana University, in 1964. It is
                    thought to be a complete record of his articles in historical magazines. Because much of what
                    Professor Barnhart wrote was never incorporated into book form, these articles add to both the
                    extent and significance of his writing.
            
               "Rainfall and the Populist Party in 
                            Nebraska
                        ," American Political Science Review, XIX (1925), 527-40.
               "The Farmers' 
                            Alliance
                        ," with John D. Hicks, 
                     
                                North Carolina
                             Historical Review, VI (1929), 254-80.
               "Recent Industrial Growth and Politics in the Southern Appalachian Region,"
                            
                     Mississippi Valley Historical Review, XVII (1931), 581-94.
               "Reconstruction on the Lower 
                            Mississippi
                        , Letters of Captain James A. Payne from 
                            Baton Rouge
                        ," 
                     Mississippi Valley Historical
                        Review, XXI (1934), 387-96.
               "The Southern Element in the Leadership of the Old Northwest," Journal of Southern History, I (1935), 186-97.
               "Sources of the Southern Migration into the Old Northwest," 
                     Mississippi Valley Historical Review, XXII
                        (1936), 49-62.
               "The Southern Influence in the Formation of Indiana," Indiana
                            Magazine of History, XXXIII (1937), 261-76.
               "The Southern Influence in the Formation of 
                            Ohio
                        ," Journal of Southern History, III
                        (1937), 28-42.
               "The Southern Influence in the Formation of 
                            Illinois
                        ," Journal of the 
                                Illinois
                             State Historical Society, XXXII (1939), 358-78.
               
               "Southern Contributions to the Social Order of the Old Northwest," 
                     
                                North Carolina
                             Magazine of History, XVII (1940), 237-48.
               "A 
                            Virginia
                         Steamboat Captain on the 
                            Sacramento
                        ," The Pacific Historical Review, IX
                        (1940), 445-59.
               "Frontiersmen and Planters in the Formation of 
                            Kentucky
                        ," Journal of Southern History, VII
                        (1941), 19-36.
               "The 
                            Tennessee
                         Constitution of 1796: A Product of the Old West," Journal of
                            Southern History, IX (1943), 532-49.
               "Sources of Indiana's First Constitution," Indiana
                            Magazine of History, XXXIX (1943), 55-94.
               "Report of the Committee on American History," Indiana Magazine
                            of History, XL (1944), 67-72.
               "The Indiana War History Commission," Indiana Magazine of
                            History, XL (1944), 227-42.
               "A New Letter About the Massacre at Fort 
                            Dearborn
                        ," Indiana Magazine of History, XLI
                        (1945), 187-99.
               "Some New Aids for Historians," Indiana Magazine of
                        History, XLI (1945), 88-92.
               "The Democratization of Indiana Territory," Indiana Magazine of
                            History, XLIII (1947), 1-22.
               "The Letters of Decius," Indiana Magazine of History,XLIII (1947), 263-96.
               "The Democratization of the Northwest Ordinance," in Journals
                            of the General Assembly of Indiana Territory, 1805-1815, Vol. XXXII
                            (Indiana Historical Collections; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1950), 1-17.
               "The Migration of Kentuckians Across the Ohio River,"
                            Filson Club History Quarterly, XXV (1951), 24-32.
               "A New Evaluation of 
                            Henry
                            Hamilton
                         and George Rogers 
                            Clark
                        ," 
                     Mississippi Valley Historical
                        Review, XXXVII (March, 1951).
               "Letters of William H. Harrison to Thomas Worthington, 1799-1813," Indiana Magazine of History, XLVII (1951), 53-84.
               "Lieutenant Governor Henry Hamilton's Apologia," Indiana Magazine of History, LII (1956), 383-96.
               "A New Diary of Lieutenant-Governor Henry Hamilton," 
                     
                                Missouri
                             Historical Society Bulletin, XII (1955-1956),
                    10-24.
            
         
         
         
            Guide to the Indiana Sesquicentennial Manuscript Project: Part I
            
                    Compiled by Thomas Krasean
                
            During Indiana's Sesquicentennial celebration in 1966 the Indiana State Library conducted
                    and administered a statewide search for manuscripts relating to the state's 150 years of
                    historical development. Through this program, known as the Indiana Sesquicentennial Manuscript
                    Project, manuscripts were collected and xerox or microfilm copies of them were distributed to a
                    number of libraries within the state.1
            
            Contributions desired by the project were divided into two categories: personal items such as
                    letters, diaries, journals, account books, sermons, speeches, and reminiscences; and privately
                    printed items such as commencement programs, business and industrial catalogs, broadsides, maps, and
                    pamphlets.
            All manuscript material was sent or delivered to the Indiana State Library. Here the project director
                    and his assistants sorted the contributions and arranged pages for copying. An accurate record of
                    each entry, its contents, and the date it was returned was entered in a ledger book. All items were
                    copied either by xerox or microfilm. Some typed or transcribed copies of original manuscripts were
                    submitted. In a few cases a copy was made from another copy of an original when the whereabouts of
                    the original was unknown. Shipments were sent to cooperating libraries approximately every three
                    months.
            All in all, some 60,000 pages of manuscript materials were contributed to the project. As hoped,
                    items covering a variety of subjects and times ranging from pre-statehood to the present day came in
                    from all sections of the state.
            The format in the following guide roughly corresponds with that used by the Library of Congress in
                        The National 
                            Union
                         Catalog of Manuscript Collections. While the 
                  
                            Union
                         Catalog lists entries as they were received, this guide arranges them by
                    appropriate headings. An index to the guide has been prepared and will be deposited with each of the
                    cooperating libraries. Part II of the guide is scheduled for publication in the Indiana
                        Magazine of History in September, 1968.
            A great majority of the papers collected deal with private citizens—not prominent national
                    or local figures. Their personal diaries and letters were written without fear of retribution. Such
                    might not have been the case with elected officials. For the most part they contain much information
                    about family births and deaths, weather, illnesses, marriages, names of children, and comparable
                    items. However, the items gathered also contain considerable information of political, social, and
                    economic value.
            
               
                  1 The cooperating libraries are located at Ball State University, Indiana
                        State University, Notre Dame University, Purdue University, and Indiana University at 
                            Bloomington
                         (Lilly Library). Other libraries in the program are the 
                            Fort Wayne
                        -
                            Allen County
                         Public Library, the 
                            Indianapolis
                         Public Library, the Indiana Historical Society Library, and the Indiana State
                        Library.
            
            
            A number of people were instrumental in making the project a success. Only a few of them can be named
                    here. Mention must be made of the services of Mrs. Hazel Hopper, head, Indiana Division, Indiana
                    State Library; her staff members Miss Louise Wood, Miss Martha Wright, Mrs. Frances Macdonald, Mrs.
                    Feme Roseman, and Miss Carol Deschler. Miss Carol Jarvis was the project assistant. Miss Margaret
                    Pierson and Mr. Earl Anderson of the Archives Division of the State Library were responsible for
                    much of the microfilming done for the project.
            An explanation of the entries will be helpful to users of the guide. The first section of each entry
                    contains the name of the person, family, or place under which the entry is catalogued; next is the
                    entry title or heading, the inclusive dates of the item or n.d. (no date), the number of items, and
                    the number of pages in the item. The second section describes the scope and content of the item and
                    gives the county discussed in the item. The third section indicates the name of the contributor or
                    the location of the original. In the fourth section, identifying numbers assigned by the project are
                    given: the manuscript project number, preceded by (X) for xerox or (M) for microfilm (or, for
                    example, M-2, to indicate the second entry on a microfilm reel). The final number, the MS number,
                    indicates how entries may be found in the index to the guide.
            EDITOR'S NOTE: Thomas Krasean, compiler of the guide which follows, has indicated that the
                    Indiana Sesquicentennial Manuscript Project was sponsored by the Indiana Sesquicentennial Commission
                    in cooperation with nine leading libraries around the state. The emphasis of the project was on
                    locating and reproducing valuable manuscript material pertaining to any important topic, aspect, or
                    personality of Indiana's history. The success of the project was largely the result of two
                    forces: the awards offered by Governor Roger D. Branigin to the three counties making the most
                    impressive contributions to the program; and the important role played by members of the staff of
                    the Indiana State Library, especially those associated with the Indiana Division. Mr. Krasean,
                    however, has been too modest to suggest that he himself was the director of the project. He has
                    written a detailed description of the project in the November, 1967 issue of History
                        News, published by the American Association for State and Local History.
            Fortunately the Indiana Division of the Indiana State Library is carrying forward its collection of
                    manuscripts pertaining to Indiana's historical development. Individuals who have relevant
                    material which has not been xeroxed are encouraged to make it available to Thomas Krasean, field
                    representative, Indiana Division, Indiana State Library, State Library and Historical Building, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana 46402. The Indiana Division welcomes the donation of original manuscripts but
                    is also willing to xerox originals and return them to owners who wish to contribute to the project
                    in this way. This important program should continue as a vital and permanent part of the Indiana
                    State Library's services. Certainly, the collection of manuscripts which began with the
                    observance of Indiana's 150th birthday of statehood should more than double during the
                    decade subsequent thereto.
            
            I. Account Books
            
               
                        Applegate, William L.; account book, 1865-1876; 1 vol., 43 pp.
                        Farm day book containing prices of produce and wages of hired help. 
                                Johnson County
                            .
                        Mrs. Walter Miller, Etna Green.
                        (X) 62; MS-1
                    
               
                        Baird, William, and Warden, Samuel; account books, 1817-1842; 2 vols., 310 pp.
                        Day book and ledger of a general store. 
                                Washington County
                            . In 
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-3-4) 103, Reel #4; MS-2
                    
               
                        Banks, Burr; account book, 1807-1842; 1 vol., 117 pp.
                        Ledger of a flour and saw mill. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        In 
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-l) 103, Reel #1; MS-3
                    
               
                        Brimfield General Store; account books, 1867-1890; 3 vols., 1308 pp.
                        Day books of a general store in Brimfield. 
                                Noble County
                            .
                        H. C. Schlictenmyer, Cromwell.
                        (M-3) 134, Reel #1; (M-l, 3) 134, Reel #2; MS-4
                    
               
                        Brimfield Saw Mill and Lumber Company; account book, 1871-1884; 1 vol., 432 pp.
                        Day books of a saw mill and lumber company. 
                                Noble County
                            .
                        H. C. Schlictenmyer, Cromwell.
                        (M-2) 134, Reel #2; MS-5
                    
               
                        Davis, Samuel; account book, 1849-1852; 1 vol., 105 pp.
                        Day book of a blacksmith. 
                        Washington County,
                                    Salem
                     .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-3) 103, Reel #1; MS-6
                    
               
               
                        Dixon, H.S.; account book, 1859-1864; 1 vol., 210 pp.
                        Day book of a blacksmith. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        Our Heritage Historical Society, Vemon.
                        (M-14) 147; MS-7
                    
               
                        Dixon, Solomon; account book, 1837-1850; 1 vol., 122 pp.
                        Farm day book and ledger. 
                                Greene County
                            .
                        Mrs. Mary Sloan, Worthington.
                    
               
                        (M-4) 114; MS-8; see also MS-155
                    
               
                        Duckwell, W. W.; account books, 1878-1880; 2 vols., 285 pp.
                        Day book and ledger of a dry goods store in 
                        Salem. Washington County
                     .
                        In 
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-5-6) 103, Reel #1; MS-9
                    
               
                        Goodwin, John R.; account books, 1846-1861; 3 vols., 338 pp.
                        Day books and ledgers of a physician and farmer near 
                        Brookville. Franklin
                            County
                     .
                        John P. Goodwin, 
                                Brookville
                            .
                        (M-6-8) 148, Reel #1; MS-10; see also MS-78
                    
               
                        Goodwin, Samuel; account books, 1818-1830; 2 vols., 444 pp.
                        Day book and ledger of a tanner near 
                        Brookville. Franklin County
                     .
                        John P. Goodwin, 
                                Brookville
                            .
                        (M-l-2) 148, Reel #1; MS-11
                    
               
                        Goudie, Joseph; account books, 1841-1847; 3 vols., 530 pp.
                        Day book and ledgers of a general store in 
                        Brookville. Franklin County
                     .
                        John P. Goodwin, 
                                Brookville
                            .
                        (M-3-5) 148, Reel #1; MS-12
                    
               
               
                        Green, Dr. G. H., account books, 1867-1891; 11 vols., 992 pp.
                        Day books and ledgers of a physician. Index. 
                                Jennings County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Hendricks County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Plainfield
                            .
                        (M-2-12) 122; MS-13
                    
               
                        Humphreys, Thomas; account books, 1852-1900; 6 vols., 563 pp.
                        Personal and business accounts of Humphreys and Dowerman, a ship building firm in New 
                                Albany
                            . Business records show type of lumber used, prices of construction materials,
                            and description of ships built. 
                                Floyd County
                            .
                        New 
                                Albany
                             Public Library.
                        (M-4) 94; MS-14
                    
               
                        McIntosh, A. J.; account book, 1880-1883; 1 vol., 234 pp.
                        Day book of a flour mill. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-7) 103, Reel #1; MS-15; see also MS-16
                    
               
                        McIntosh, A. J.; account book, 1880-1881; 1 vol., 373 pp.
                        Day book of a general store in 
                        Salem. Washington County
                     .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-l) 103, Reel #4; MS-16; see also MS-15
                    
               
                        Pollock, Hiram; account book, 1857-1861; 1 vol., 138 pp.
                        Ledger of a general store. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-4) 103, Reel #1; MS-17
                    
               
                        
                     
                                Rome City
                             General Store, account book, 1857-1858; 1 vol., 453 pp.
                        Day book of a general store in 
                        Rome City.
                                    Noble County
                     .
                        H. C. Schlictenmyer, Cromwell.
                        (M-2) 134, Reel #1; MS-18
                    
               
               
                        
                     
                                Scott
                            , G. E.; account book, 1881; 1 item, 5 pp.
                        Personal account of work and materials in building a barn. 
                                Wells County
                            .
                        Frank Cline, 
                                Portland
                            .
                        (X) 126; MS-19
                    
               
                        Vellom, Lemuel; account book, 1905-1912; 1 vol., 471 pp.
                        Ledger of a general store at Saltillo. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-l) 123; MS-20
                    
               
                        Wallace, Dr. John; account book, 1836-1840; 1 vol., 114 pp.
                        Day book of a physician. 
                                Franklin County
                            .
                        Virgil Davis, 
                                Brookville
                            .
                        (M-9) 147; MS-21; see also MS-271
                    
               
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                            , District School Treasurer; account book, 1842-1849; 1 vol., 73 pp.
                        Record book of the district school treasurer for 
                                Washington
                             and 
                                Orange
                             counties. 
                                Washington County
                            -
                                Orange County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-5) 103, Reel #4; MS-22
                    
               
                        Wilson, Dr. J. B.; account book, 1849-1855; 1 vol., 343 pp.
                        Day book of a physician. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-4) 93, Reel #1; MS-23
                    
            
            II. Business Records
            
               
                        American Insurance Company; business records, 1876; 1 item, 4 pp.
                        Year-end report for 1876. 
                                Marion County
                            .
                        Max Lee, 
                                Danville
                            .
                        (X) 130; MS-24
                    
               
               
                        Baird, William; business records, 1835; 2 items, 2 pp.
                        Way bills for passengers on stage line. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        In 
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (X) 15; MS-25
                    
               
                        Gardner Funeral Home; business records, 1816-1888; 63 items, 292 pp.
                        Day books, ledgers, miscellaneous papers of a funeral home and furniture manufacturer. 
                                Knox County
                            .
                        In Gardner Funeral Home, 
                                Vincennes
                            .
                        (M-22) 121; MS-26
                    
            
            III. Church Records
            
               
                        Baptist, 
                                Bethlehem
                            ; records, 1855-1865; 1 vol., 34 pp.
                        Articles of faith, constitution, and minutes. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        In 
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-14) 121; MS-27
                    
               
                        Baptist, Big Cedar Grove; records, 1817-1851; 1 item, 55 pp., transcribed.
                        History, minutes, names of members. 
                                Franklin County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Franklin County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Brookville
                            .
                        (M-5) 148, Reel #2; MS-28
                    
               
                        Baptist, Campbellsburg Missionary; records, 1888-1955; 1 item, 59 pp., typed.
                        Minutes, membership roll, constitution, articles of faith, covenant, and rules of order. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-16) 149, Reel #1; MS-29
                    
               
                        Baptist, Deer, or Sugar Creek; records, 1829-1847; 1 vol., 145 pp.
                        Articles of faith, rules of decorum, constitution, index, minutes. 
                                Carroll County
                            .
                        Rossville Junior High School History Club, Rossville.
                        (M-18) 125, Reel #1; MS-30
                    
               
               
                        Baptist, First, 
                                Franklin
                            ; records, 1923; 1 item, 152 pp., typed.
                        A history with index and list of baptisms. 
                                Johnson County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Franklin
                             Public Library.
                        (M-4) 149, Reel #1; MS-31
                    
               
                        Baptist, Livonia, Campbellsburg; records, 1866-1960; 3 vols., 677 pp.
                        Minutes, names of members, finances. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M) 104; MS-32
                    
               
                        Baptist, Lost River, Claysville; records, 1814-1906; 1 item, 309 pp., typed.
                        History, minutes, and index. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-l-2) 73; MS-33; see also MS-34
                    
               
                        Baptist, Lost River, Claysville; records, 1907-1956; 1 vol., 166 pp.
                        Minutes, list of church members, and index. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-13) 121; MS-34; see also MS-33
                    
               
                        Baptist, Lost River, Regular; records, 1872; 1 item, 23 pp., typed.
                        Articles of faith, rules of decorum, names of members, church covenant. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        In 
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-2) 121; MS-35
                    
               
                        Baptist, Mill Creek; records, 1822-1846; 1 vol., 80 pp.
                        Minutes, list of members, and index. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        In 
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-12) 16; MS-36; see also MS-37
                    
               
                        Baptist, Mill Creek; records, 1846-1874; 1 vol., 216 pp.
                        Rules of discipline, minutes, and names of members. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        In 
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-15) 16; MS-37; see also MS-36
                    
               
                        
                        Baptist, 
                                New Harmony
                            ; records, 1852-1918; 1 vol., 198 pp.
                        Minutes, church covenant, rules of decorum, members' names. 
                                Vigo County
                            .
                        Mrs. Mary Morgan, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                        (M-l) 122; MS-38
                    
               
                        Baptist, New 
                                Providence
                            ; records, 1816-1854; 1 vol., 118 pp.
                        Articles of faith, minutes. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        In 
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-16) 16; MS-39
                    
               
                        Baptist, Orleans; records, 1949; 1 item, 8 pp.
                        Minutes of the Seventy-fifth Annual Session of the Orleans Baptist Association. 
                                Lawrence County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-3) 121; MS-40
                    
               
                        Baptist, Ox Fork; records, 1823-1909; 1 item, 44 pp., typed.
                        Minutes and list of members. 
                                Scott County
                            .
                        In 
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-10) 16; MS-41
                    
               
                        Baptist, Regular Predestinarian; records, 1858; 1 item, 1 p., typed.
                        A letter from the Regular Predestinarian church to her sister church at Stamper's
                            Creek concerning the proposed split in the church. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        In 
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-15) 121; MS-42
                    
               
                        Baptist, Sharon; records, 1810-1830; 1 item, 26 pp., newspaper clippings.
                        Clippings concerning minutes, names of members, and index. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        In 
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-9) 16; MS-43
                    
               
               
                        Baptist, Unity; records, 1818-1858; 1 item, 29 pp., typed.
                        Minutes, list of members. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        In 
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-ll) 16; MS-44
                    
               
                        Christian Church, First, 
                                Washington County
                            ; records, 1842-1853; 1 item, 24 pp., typed.
                        Charter members, minutes, names of members, and index. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        In 
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-6) 103; Reel #4; MS-45
                    
               
                        Christian Church, Mt. Carmel; records, 1900-1967; 1 item, 55 pp., typed.
                        History, minutes, and membership roll. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-3) 125, Reel #2; MS-46
                    
               
                        Christian Church, Sugar Creek; records, 1869-1966; 1 item, 42 pp., typed.
                        Church register. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        In 
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-2) 103, Reel #4; MS-47
                    
               
                        Church of Christ, Blue River; records, 1810-1867; 1 item, 59 pp., typed.
                        Index, names of members, and minutes. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-10) 149, Reel #1; MS-48
                    
               
                        Church of Christ, Blue River; records, 1822-1833; 1 vol., 94 pp.
                        Minutes and names of members. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        In 
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-13) 16; MS-49; see also MS-50
                    
               
               
                        Church of Christ, Blue River, West Branch; records, 1836-1859; 1 vol., 84 pp.
                        Minutes and names of members. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        In 
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-14) 16; MS-50; see also MS-49
                    
               
                        Church of Christ, College Hill; records, 1869-1956; 1 item, 59 pp.,
                            typed.
                        Minutes, list of members, and index. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        In 
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-8) 103, Reel #4; MS-51
                    
               
                        Church of Christ, Fort Hill; records, n.d.; 1 vol., 96 pp.
                        History with list of elders and an index. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        In 
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-l) 73; MS-52
                    
               
                        Friends, Society of, Blue River; records, 1815-1874; 1 item, 7 pp., typed.
                        Minutes. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        In 
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-ll) 114; MS-53
                    
               
                        Friends, Society of, Highlands Creek; records, 1884-1889, 1908-1911; 2 vols., 108 pp.
                        Minutes of monthly meetings. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        In 
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (X) 72; MS-54
                    
               
                        Methodist, Arcadia; records, 1867-1966; 1 item, 48 pp., typed.
                        History of the Arcadia Methodist Church. 
                                Hamilton County
                            .
                        Mrs. Ethel C. Lorton, Arcadia.
                        (X) 80; MS-55
                    
               
               
                        Presbyterian, Bath; records, 1821-1893; 3 vols., 95 pp.
                        Minutes, names of members, baptisms, and proceedings of founding of the church. 
                                Franklin County
                            .
                        In 
                                Franklin County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Brookville
                            .
                        (X) 145; MS-56
                    
               
                        Presbyterian, 
                                Bethlehem
                            ; records, 1824-1887; 1 item, 78 pp., typed.
                        Minutes, names of members, and index. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-7) 16; MS-57
                    
               
                        Presbyterian, Caledonia; records, 1954; 1 item, 4 pp., typed.
                        Brief history. 
                                Switzerland County
                            .
                        Mrs. Marcella Vellenga, 
                                Gary
                            .
                        (X) 59; MS-58
                    
               
                        Presbyterian, 
                                Salem
                            ; records, 1817-1853; 1 item, 26 pp., typed.
                        Minutes, names of members, and index. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        In 
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-8) 16; MS-59
                    
               
                        Presbyterian, Second, Livonia; records, 1828-1893; 6 items, 364 pp., typed and transcribed.
                        Minutes, names of members, and financial and trustee's records. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        In 
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-l-6) 16; MS-60
                    
            
            IV. County and Local History
            
               
                        Davidson, Joe H.; history, 1966; 1 vol., 39 pp.
                        Brief general history of Coatsville, a small central Indiana community. 
                                Hendricks County
                            .
                        Joe H. Davidson, Coatsville.
                        (X) 34; MS-61
                    
               
               
                        
                     
                                Dayton
                            , Sallie; history, n.d.; 1 vol., 78 pp.
                        Brief general history of Stilesville, a small central Indiana community. 
                                Hendricks County
                            .
                        Mrs. Sallie Dayton, 
                                Greenfield
                            .
                        (X) 75; MS-62
                    
               
                        Garrett Junior Historical Society, Garrett; history, n.d.; 1 item, 9 pp.
                        Brief history of 
                                Dekalb County
                             containing information on early settlers, political history, abandoned schools,
                            ghost towns, and important events. 
                                Dekalb County
                            .
                        Garrett Junior Historical Society, Garrett.
                        (X) 124; MS-63
                    
               
                        Holcomb, Thurlo C.; history, 1963; 1 vol., 208 pp.
                        General history of 
                                Noble County
                             by Thurlo C. Holcomb. 
                                Noble County
                            .
                        Thurlo C. Holcomb, Albion.
                        (M-2) 99; MS-64
                    
               
                        Maples, Dr. James; history, 1966; 32 vols., 3972 pp.
                        Detailed history of 
                                Sullivan
                             and 
                                Greene
                             counties by Dr. James Maples; contains a written history, photographs,
                            pamphlets, newspaper clippings, index, and miscellaneous items. 
                                Vigo County
                            .
                        In 
                                Vigo County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Terre Haute
                            .
                        (M) 87; MS-65
                    
               
                        
                     
                                Martin
                            , Louise T.; history, n.d.; 1 item, 16 pp.
                        Brief history of the John Hay House in 
                                Salem
                            , Indiana, by Louise T. Martin; also personal memoirs of the growth of 
                                Salem
                             from a village to a town. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-16) 114; MS-66
                    
               
               
                        
                     
                                Noble County
                            ; history, 1966; 10 vols., 719 pp.
                        Scrapbooks compiled by citizens of various townships in 
                                Noble County
                            , containing written histories, photographs, pamphlets, newspaper clippings, and
                            miscellaneous items dealing with the observance of the Indiana Sesquicentennial in 1966. 
                                Noble County
                            .
                        Mrs. Quentin F. Stultz, 
                                Ligonier
                            .
                        (M-l-10) 134, Reel #16; MS-67
                    
               
                        
                     
                                Whitley County
                            ; history, 1937; 1 vol., 53 pp.
                        Brief general history of 
                                Whitley County
                             compiled by a number of ladies' study clubs. 
                                Whitley County
                            .
                        In 
                                South Whitley
                             Public Library.
                        (X) 118; MS-68
                    
               
                        Wycoff, Minnie; history, 1935; 1 vol., 1048 pp.
                        
                     Builders of a City, a general history of Batesville, Indiana, by Minnie
                            Wycoff. 
                                Ripley County
                            .
                        Paul Wycoff, Batesville.
                        (M) 11; MS-69
                    
            
            V. Diaries and Journals
            
               
                        Armstrong, Robert; diary, 1863-1865; 1 vol., 89 pp., typed.
                        A sergeant with Co. H, 66th Regiment, Indiana Volunteers, Armstrong relates his experiences
                            in the Civil War. The 66th fought in several campaigns in 
                                Mississippi
                             and 
                                Kentucky
                             in 1863. They also fought with Sherman's Army in the capture of 
                                Atlanta
                             and later in Sherman's March to the Sea in 1864. Armstrong was from 
                                Harrison County
                            .
                        Sam Armstrong, 
                                Fredericksburg
                            .
                        (X) 14; MS-70
                    
               
                        Bunch, Thomas; journal, 1852; 1 vol., 63 pp.
                        Journal covering a cattle drive from 
                        St. Joseph,
                                    Missouri
                     , to Salt
                            Lake, 
                                Utah
                            , over the Morman trail; descriptions of scenery, forts, problems, and other
                            items. 
                                Wayne County
                            .
                        In Winchester Public Library.
                        (X) 40; MS-71
                    
               
               
                        Clark, J. Adams; journal, 1854; 1 vol., 112 pp.
                        Travel-journal of a land speculator from 
                                New York
                            ; descriptions of towns and land in southern 
                                Michigan
                            , northern Indiana, and 
                                Illinois
                            .
                        Warren A. Reeder, 
                                Hammond
                            .
                        (M-4) 99; MS-72
                    
               
                        Connelly, Jesse B.; diary, 1861-1863; 1 vol., 142 pp., typed.
                        A member of Co. I, 31st Regiment, Indiana Volunteers, Connelly, from 
                                Parke County
                            , writes of the early western campaigns on the Tennessee
                            River, the Battle at 
                                Shiloh
                            , and other engagements, and various items such as camp experiences, marches,
                            guard duty.
                        
                     
                                Vigo County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Terre Haute
                            .
                        (M-20) 125, Reel #1; MS-73
                    
               
                        Davis, 
                                Henry
                            ; diary, 1870-1906; 1 vol., 30 pp., typed.
                        Diary containing the weekly record of sermons given, place and payment for services. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        In 
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-12) 114; MS-74
                    
               
                        Deiwert, William M.; diary, 1909-1910; 1 vol., 72 pp.
                        Farm diary giving brief day-to-day accounts of life in rural Indiana. 
                                Shelby County
                            .
                        Mrs. Franklin Bobbitt, Waldron.
                        (X) 9; MS-75
                    
               
                        Funk, J. A.; diary, 1879-1886; 1 vol., 48 pp.
                        Personal diary of a school superintendent and principal at Corydon; comments on national and
                            state events, trip to Canada, and school problems. 
                                Harrison County
                            .
                        New 
                                Albany
                             Public Library.
                        (M-6) 93, Reel #1; MS-76
                    
               
               
                        Goodwin, Charles F.; diaries, 1878-1889; 3 vols., 297 pp.
                        Farm diaries containing brief day-to-day comments on weather, crops, local happenings, and
                            family activities. 
                                Franklin County
                            .
                        John P. Goodwin, 
                                Brookville
                            .
                        (M-12) 148, Reel #1, (M-l-2) 148, Reel #2; MS-77
                    
               
                        Goodwin, John R.; diaries, 1848-1861; 3 vols., 321 pp.
                        Diaries covering daily activities on a farm near 
                                Brookville
                            ; comments on local happenings, weather, crops, and other items. 
                                Franklin County
                            .
                        John P. Goodwin, 
                                Brookville
                            .
                        (M-9 [Part] 10-11) 148, Reel #1; MS-78
                    
               
                        
                     
                                Hamilton
                            , Reverend James; journal, 1850; 2 items, 38 pp.
                        Journal of an Irish immigrant who sailed from Ireland in 1850 to the United States; comments
                            on rough crossing, first sighting of America, and impressions of American cities. 
                                Hamilton
                             later settled in 
                                Jackson County
                            .
                        Mrs. Ina Kestner, Brownstown.
                        (X) 44; MS-79
                    
               
                        Hardin, B. F.; diaries, 1909-1919; 9 vols., 781 pp.
                        Rural life in southern Indiana at the turn of the century; contains prices of crops and
                            goods, weather, and notes on events both national and local. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-l-9) 125, Reel #1; MS-80
                    
               
                        Haymond, Dr. Rufus; diary, 1845-1885; 1 vol., 86 pp.
                        Personal diary covering a wide variety of subjects including weather, flora and fauna, solar
                            eclipse, a comet, floods, local and national politics. 
                                Franklin County
                            .
                        Mrs. Charles T. Fettz, 
                                Brookville
                            .
                        (X) 18; MS-81
                    
               
               
                        Holland, James; diary, 1862-1863; 1 item, 138 pp.
                        Journal of three months' service during the Civil War in Company K, 99th Regiment,
                            Indiana Volunteers; comments on troop activities, camp life and morale, and other items, all
                            with a religious overtone. Holland was from 
                                Marion County
                            .
                        (M-l) 125, Reel #2; MS-82
                    
               
                        Hooper, William S.; journal, 1858-1868; 1 vol., 201 pp.
                        Journal of a Methodist circuit rider in southern Indiana; a variety of interesting
                            observations on his travels, reflections on religion, sermons given. 
                                Floyd County
                            .
                        New 
                                Albany
                             Public Library.
                        (M-3) 93, Reel #1; MS-83
                    
               
                        
                     
                                Johnson
                            , Andrew J.; journal, 1862-1865; 1 item, 25 pp., typed.
                        Brief day-to-day account of experiences in the Civil War of a 
                                Johnson County
                             soldier in Co. I, 70th Regiment, Indiana Volunteers; comments of a general
                            nature, concerning troop marches, weather, guard duty.
                        
                     
                                Franklin
                             Public Library.
                        (M-l) 149; Reel #1; MS-84
                    
               
                        Kuppenheimer, John; diary, 1861-1862; 1 item, 23 pp., typed.
                        A member of Co. F, 14th Regiment, Indiana Volunteers, Kuppenheimer, from 
                                Vigo County
                            , tells of the regiment's principal engagement against part of
                            Lee's army at Cheat Mountain. He also comments on camp life, rations, picket duty,
                            and other experiences.
                        
                     
                                Vigo County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Terre Haute
                            .
                        (X) 61; MS-85
                    
               
                        MacDonald, David; diary, 1864-1868; 1 vol., 308 pp.
                        Diary of a chief justice of the supreme court of Indiana; incisive comments on political and
                            social events in the state and the nation. 
                                Marion County
                            .
                        Mrs. G. H. Denny, Sonoma, 
                                California
                            .
                        (M-5) 134; Reel #2; MS-86
                    
               
               
                        
                     
                                Mitchell
                            , Origen; diary, 1863; 1 vol., 31 pp.
                        In a brief two months' diary 
                                Mitchell
                            , from 
                                Marion County
                            , tells of a long, hot march, of his transport to a hospital in the east, of
                            Fort 
                                Monroe
                            , Portsmouth, and eventual return to his regiment in Co. A, 13th Regiment,
                            Indiana Volunteers.
                        Mrs. Roger Burch, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                        (M-4) 106; MS-87; see also MS-197
                    
               
                        Morris, John; journals, 1842-1846; 10 items, 453 pp.
                        Brief day-to-day account of rural life in southern Indiana in the years prior to the Civil
                            War; mention of weather, work done, some prices, and notes on local and family activities.
                            Also five letters regarding the Protestant Episcopal church in 
                                Vanderburgh County
                             and the Mother Church in England. 
                                Vanderburgh County
                            .
                        Howell Wheaton, West 
                                Lafayette
                            .
                        (X) 51; MS-88
                    
               
                        Myers, John D.; diary, 1864-1865; 1 vol., 36 pp., transcribed.
                        Myers, from 
                                Elkhart County
                            , was a member of Co. I, 74th Regiment, Indiana Volunteers; comments on each
                            day's happenings such as "hard fighting" or "staid in
                            camp." The regiment fought in Sherman's March to the Sea in 1864.
                        
                     
                                Marshall
                             Howenstein, West 
                                Lafayette
                            .
                        (X) 28; MS-89
                    
               
                        Olive, David H.; diary, 1861; 1 item, 14 pp., transcribed.
                        A member of the band of Co. I, 10th Regiment, Indiana Volunteers, Olive, from 
                                Boone County
                            , describes his brief enlistment, camp at Lebanon, Indiana, dress parades before
                            General McClellan, and several engagements.
                        North Central High School History Club, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                        (X) 78; MS-90
                    
               
                        
                     
                                Orange County
                            ; diary, 1856-1858; 1 vol., 101 pp.
                        Brief account of rural life in a southern 
                                Indiana county
                             by an unknown author; some comment on state and national events; emphasis on
                            local activities, crops, plowing, and other items. 
                                Orange County
                            .
                        Our Heritage Historical Society, Vernon.
                        (M-10) 125, Reel #1; MS-91
                    
               
               
                        
                     
                                Perry
                            , James E.; diary, 1861; 1 vol., 34 pp.
                        Brief account of life on the home front during the Civil War; scattered mention of national
                            events along with local and personal activities. 
                                Clark County
                            .
                        Edgar P. Howell, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                        (M-16) 114; MS-92
                    
               
                        Platter, C. C.; diary, 1864-1865; 1 vol., 146 pp.
                        Fine descriptive account of Sherman's March to the Sea by a member of the 81st
                            Regiment, 
                                Ohio
                             Volunteers; tells of foraging, troop movements, burning of buildings, and other
                            events surrounding the capture of Savannah.
                        In 
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (X) 86; MS-93
                    
               
                        Ray, John H.; diaries, 1875-1900; 7 vols., 1200 pp.
                        Diaries concerning a twenty-five year period of rural life up to the turn of the century;
                            notes on local and personal activities such as plowing, weather, deaths, fires, and other
                            events. 
                                Franklin County
                            .
                        Mrs. Clara S. Kelly, 
                                Brookville
                            .
                        (M) 19; MS-94
                    
               
                        Records, William H.; diaries, 1862-1904; 9 vols., 863 pp.
                        Records, from 
                                Tippecanoe County
                            , served with Co. I, 72nd Regiment, Indiana Volunteers. His regiment was part of
                            Wilder's Lightning Brigade and much of its fighting is noted in this detailed
                            account.
                        In Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                        (M) 54; MS-95; see also MS-217
                    
               
                        Shepard, James N.; diary, 1861-1862; 1 item, 12 pp., typed.
                        Brief, interesting account by a member of Co. K, 31st Regiment, Indiana Volunteers; notes on
                            camp life and morale, troop movement, sighting enemy breast-works, hospital life, and other
                            experiences. Shepard enlisted in 
                                Vigo County
                            .
                        (M-19) 125, Reel #1; MS-96
                    
               
               
                        Sparks, Henry B.; diary, 1864; 1 item, 17 pp., typed.
                        A member of the 2nd Cavalry, 41st Regiment, Indiana Volunteers, Sparks, from 
                                Marion County
                            , was captured and spent nine months in Belle Isle Prison, escaped, was
                            recaptured, and was placed in several jails before being paroled to rejoin his regiment.
                        Arlington High School History Club, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                        (X) 95; MS-97
                    
               
                        Stover, D. C.; diaries, 1859-1865; 3 vols., 247 pp.
                        Diaries of a state agent who was involved in the sale of fraudulent Indiana stock
                            certificates in the years prior to the Civil War; mostly comments on local and personal
                            activities.
                        Warren A. Reeder, 
                                Hammond
                            .
                        (M-17) 114; MS-98
                    
               
                        Stultz, Charles P.; diary, 1864; 1 vol., 19 pp.
                        Stultz records his experiences as a member of Co. G, 57th Regiment, 
                                Ohio
                             Volunteers; comments cover a number of subjects including camp life and morale,
                            battlefield scenes, lack of rations, and destruction of railroads in 
                                Georgia
                            .
                        Mrs. Wendell Votaw, Pennville.
                        (X) 79; MS-99
                    
               
                        Swain, Orlando; diaries, 1852-1862; 3 vols., 606 pp.
                        Interesting account of life in rural 
                                Randolph County
                             in the 1850's; a wide range of subjects such as weather, local events,
                            and personal activities. 
                                Randolph County
                            .
                        Dr. C. C. Keffer, 
                                Union City
                            .
                        (M) 33; MS-100
                    
               
                        Towner, John H.; journal, 1849; 1 item, 11 pp.
                        Journal of a trip by canal boat down the Whitewater Canal from 
                                Brookville
                             to 
                                Cincinnati
                             during the gold rush days. Comment is made on passage through a tunnel, a visit
                            to the grave of William Henry Harrison, and Cincinnati. 
                                Franklin County
                            .
                        (X) 10; MS-101
                    
               
               
                        Trueblood, Joshua; diary, 1879; 1 vol., 37 pp.
                        Brief account of rural life in southern Indiana including descriptions of work done, prices
                            of farm produce and livestock, and general references to events of the day. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (X) 72; MS-102
                    
               
                        Trueblood, Lillian; diaries, 1937-1940; 4 vols., 728 pp.
                        Personal diaries containing comments and notes of happenings in and around 
                                Salem
                            , Indiana; very little information on state and national events. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-3-4) 103, Reel #2; (M-l-2) 103, Reel #3; MS-103
                    
               
                        Turpin, 
                                Henry
                            ; diaries, 1863-1865; 2 vols., 96 pp.
                        Turpin, from 
                                Hendricks County
                            , was a member of Co. I, 7th Regiment, Indiana Volunteers; brief comments
                            concerning experiences in the Civil War such as minor engagements, picket duty, troop
                            marches, and camp life and morale.
                        Miss A. Elizabeth Cooper, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                        (X) 22; MS-104
                    
               
                        
                     
                                Van
                             Reed, Jerome; diary, 1838; 1 item, 12 pp., newspaper clippings.
                        Diary of a surveyor from Pennsylvania that appeared in the Veeders- burg
                                News-The Country Cousin, March 8, 1967. Contains excerpts of a trip through Indiana
                            and a week's visit in 
                                Warren County
                            ; describes much of the land crossed and a local voting place.
                        Dale McCullough, Wingate.
                        (X) 108; MS-105
                    
               
                        Wahl, Henry E.; diary, 1943-1944; 1 item, 40 pp.
                        Diary written while stationed in the South Pacific during World War II; colorful look at the
                            daily life and experiences of a military officer.
                        Henry E. Wahl, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
                        (M-5) 149, Reel #1; MS-106; see also MS-242
                    
               
               
                        Wright, John; diary, 1844-1850; 1 item, 47 pp., typed.
                        Diary of a circuit rider in southern Indiana. Brief entries usually comment on sermons given
                            by place and date. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (X) 72; MS-107
                    
            
            VI. 
                        Early County
                     Records and Documents
            
               
                        
                     
                                Fayette County
                            , Court; records, 1819-1849; 5 items, 4 pp.
                        
                     
                                Early county
                             court papers. 
                                Fayette County
                            .
                        Mrs. Floyd Hines, 
                                Connersville
                            .
                        (X) 7; MS-108
                    
               
                        
                     
                                Franklin County
                            , Clerk; records, 1811-1814; 1 item, 108 pp.
                        Estray record book of cattle and livestock. 
                                Franklin County
                            .
                        Virgil Davis, 
                                Brookville
                            .
                        (M-l) 147; MS-109
                    
               
                        
                     
                                Franklin County
                            , Clerk; records, 1811-1839; 1 item, 80 pp.
                        Record book of marks and brands, stating how individual owners marked their livestock. 
                                Franklin County
                            .
                        Virgil Davis, 
                                Brookville
                            .
                        (M-2) 147; MS-110
                    
               
                        
                     
                                Franklin County
                            , Court; records, 1814-1817; 1 item, 160 pp.
                        Record books of a special county court for 
                                Franklin County
                            , as passed by the legislature. This court excused men from working on public
                            roads, licensed public houses, appointed road supervisors, and tried common law cases. 
                                Franklin County
                            .
                        Virgil Davis, 
                                Brookville
                            .
                        (M-4) 147; MS-111
                    
               
               
                        
                     
                                Franklin County
                            , Court of Overseers of the Poor; records, 1819-1827; 1 item, 30 pp.
                        Record of the Court of Overseers of the Poor; cases of poor families, and a variety of
                            welfare acts. 
                                Franklin County
                            .
                        John P. Goodwin, 
                                Brookville
                            .
                        (M-3) 148, Reel #2; MS-112
                    
               
                        
                     
                                Franklin County
                            , Justice of the Peace; records, 1812-1820; 1 item, 48 pp.
                        Minute book of fines received by justices of the peace for the use of the county; date of
                            fines also listed. 
                                Franklin County
                            .
                        Virgil Davis, 
                                Brookville
                            .
                        (M-3) 147; MS-113
                    
               
                        
                     
                                Franklin County
                            , Laurel Township, Justice of the Peace; records, 1899-1911; 1 item, 69 pp.
                        Record of Laurel Township, 
                                Franklin County
                             justice of the peace; also, biographical sketch of Judge John O'Hair. 
                                Franklin County
                            .
                        John P. Goodwin, 
                                Brookville
                            .
                        (M-6) 148, Reel #2; MS-114
                    
               
                        
                     
                                Franklin County
                            , Sheriff; records, 1825-1828; 1 item, 192 pp.
                        Sheriff's record book containing various fines, court costs, arrests, cases against
                            individuals, monies spent in upkeep of jail, and other information concerning the duties of
                            an early sheriff. 
                                Franklin County
                            .
                        Virgil Davis, 
                                Brookville
                            .
                        (M-8) 147; MS-115
                    
               
                        
                     
                                Franklin County
                            , Trustees for Sale of School Lands; records, 1825-1840; 1 vol., 110 pp.
                        Listing of revenues received and paid out. 
                                Franklin County
                            .
                        Virgil Davis, 
                                Brookville
                            .
                        (M-6) 147; MS-116
                    
               
               
                        
                     
                                Franklin County
                            , Trustees for Sale of School Lands; records, 1836-1853; 1 item, 74 pp.
                        Listing of sales of school lands in Section 12, Range 13. 
                                Franklin County
                            .
                        Virgil Davis, 
                                Brookville
                            .
                        (M-5) 147; MS-117
                    
               
                        
                     
                                Franklin County
                            , Trustees for Sale of School Lands; records, 1838-1859; 1 item, 132 pp.
                        Record of income from the sale of school lands in the various townships, from taxes, and from
                            other payments for school purposes. 
                                Franklin County
                            .
                        Virgil Davis, 
                                Brookville
                            .
                        (M-7) 147; MS-118
                    
               
                        
                     
                        Jennings County, Montgomery
                      Township, Trustees; records, 1866; 1 item, 86 pp.
                        Road tax list for 
                                Montgomery
                             Township, 
                                Jennings County
                            , 1866; contains names of inhabitants and amount of tax. 
                                Jennings County
                            .
                        Virgil Davis, 
                                Brookville
                            .
                        (M-13) 147; MS-119
                    
               
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                            , Clerk; records, 1838-1884; 1 item, 40 pp.
                        Estray record book of marks and brands in each township. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-2) 103, Reel #1; MS-120
                    
               
                        
                     
                        Washington County, Washington
                      Township, Trustees; records, 1853; 1 item, 173 pp.
                        Record book of the proceedings of the Board of Trustees, 
                                Washington
                             Township, regarding schools and roads. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (X) 69; MS-121
                    
            
            
            VII. Letters, Papers, and Documents
            
               
                        Abraham, Sarah; papers, 1843; 1 item, 2 pp.
                        Letter sent to friends in 
                                Ohio
                             telling of economic conditions of 
                                Franklin County
                            ; comments on hard times and prices received for farm stock. 
                                Franklin County
                            .
                        (X) 144; MS-122
                    
               
                        
                     
                                Adams
                            , Leander F.; papers, 1863-1870; 4 items, 7 pp., typed.
                        Letters to 
                                Adams
                             from his son James (66th Regiment, Indiana Volunteers) and his nephew W. W.
                            Condra living in 
                                Iowa
                            . Also a religious essay, "Private Contemplation" by Adams. 
                                Harrison County
                            .
                        James 
                                Adams
                            , Depauw.
                        (M-9) 121; MS-123
                    
               
                        Alderdice Family; papers, 1861-1864; 2 items, 4 pp.
                        Two Civil War letters, one from Nancy Allison reflecting the attitude on the home front, the
                            other from Cornelius H. Perring of Company E, 71st Regiment, Indiana Volunteers, expressing
                            his thoughts about southerners and the Negro. 
                                Greene County
                            .
                        Mrs. John Anderson, 
                                Monticello
                            .
                        (X) 68; MS-124
                    
               
                        Alley, William D.; papers, 1850; 1 item, 2 pp.
                        Very fine letter written from the gold fields of 
                                California
                            ; comments on the countryside, how much can be made a day, and reasons why those
                            back home should not attempt to make the trip west. Alley was from 
                                Johnson County
                            .
                        (X) 144; MS-125
                    
               
                        Amick, George F.; papers, 1818-1918; 10 items, 12 pp.
                        Includes material on 
                                Geneva
                            , Indiana, a broadside of a steamboat excursion, a contract to sell goods,
                            receipt on loan of a hive of honey bees, and information about an Indian burial ground. 
                                Jennings County
                            .
                        George F. Amick, Scipio.
                        (X) 6; MS-126
                    
               
               
                        Anderson, Elizabeth; papers, 1863; 1 item, 2 pp.
                        Letter written to relatives telling of the death of her son in the Civil War. 
                                Putnam County
                            .
                        William A. Daily, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                        (X) 12; MS-127
                    
               
                        Arlington High School History Club; papers, 1866, n.d.; 2 items, 5 pp.
                        Two Civil War letters, one to Peter Fisher (17th Regiment, Light Artillery) and the other
                            from O. H. Tyler to the wife of a friend who had just died of typhoid fever. 
                                Marion County
                            .
                        Arlington High School History Club, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                        (X) 85; MS-128
                    
               
                        Barnett, Peter; papers, 1862; 1 item, 2 pp.
                        Letter to his brother Jarnes in which he comments on the war and his belief it would be over
                            in two or three months. Barnett served with Co. G, 50th Regiment, Indiana Volunteers and was
                            from 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        Miss Minnie Green, Campbellsburg.
                        (M-12) 121; MS-129; see also MS-183
                    
               
                        Baynes Family; papers, 1944-1945; 23 items, 45 pp.
                        Letters to Mr. and Mrs. Baynes of 
                                Washington County
                             from their sons Frederick, James, and Paul who served in both the European and
                            Pacific theaters in World War II.
                        Mrs. Leafa Baynes, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-l) 121; MS-130
                    
               
                        Bennett, Edward; papers, 1863-1885; 4 items, 7 pp.
                        Letters of John and Rebecca Fulmer, Anna C. Henkle, John C. Helm, and Thomas A. Hendricks.
                            The 
                                Hendricks
                            ' letter concerns the political appointment of John Kelly, Jr. The
                            other letters describe economic conditions in 
                        Ohio. Marion County
                     .
                        Edward Bennett, Carmel.
                        (X) 46; MS-131
                    
               
               
                        Berkey, Christian; papers, 1846-1895; 52 items, 28 pp.
                        Letters of the Christian Berkey family containing general information of the times, economic
                            conditions, local events, and deaths, primarily in southern Indiana. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        Mrs. Lena Berkey, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-15) 114; MS-132
                    
               
                        Berkey Family; papers, 1943-1945; 15 items, 37 pp.
                        Letters to Mr. and Mrs. James G. Berkey of 
                                Washington County
                             from James, Richard, David, 
                                Virginia
                            , and Lucy Berkey; experiences in World War II in Europe and aboard ship in the
                            Pacific.
                        Mrs. Lena Berkey, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (X) 109; MS-133
                    
               
                        Blair, William W.; papers, 1847-1848; 7 items, 13 pp.
                        Class compositions on a variety of philosophical subjects written while a student at Indiana
                            University. Also a letter to Blair from James Stream, another student at the college,
                            describing a tour through 
                        Iowa. Monroe County
                     .
                        (M-25) 114; MS-134
                    
               
                        Bloomer, Joseph; papers, 1845; 1 item, 3 pp.
                        Letter to Bloomer from relatives in 
                                Ohio
                             containing family news and remarks on economic conditions.
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (X) 129; MS-135
                    
               
                        Blue, Graydon M.; papers, 1941-1945; 10 items, 93 pp.
                        Letters, notes, and a brief diary of a soldier from 
                                Noble County
                             in World War II; mostly family news; notes and diary written after the war tell
                            a brief story of his service.
                        Mrs. Graydon Blue, 
                                Ligonier
                            .
                        (M-21) 125, Reel #1; MS-136
                    
               
               
                        Bowers, Claude G.; papers, n.d.; 1 item, 1 p.
                        A letter from Bowers to Isaac Strouse telling him of his plans to write a biography of
                            Indiana Senator John W. Kern.
                        Mrs. Claude Ott, 
                                Rockville
                            .
                        (X) 25; MS-137
                    
               
                        Bowles, William A.; papers, 1833-1902; 26 items, 70 pp.
                        A collection of Bowles family (French Lick, Indiana) letters from Mary Ann, Eliza, Julia, and
                            William Bowles; information on family news, economic conditions, politics, the Civil War,
                            and other items. Also letters of James Cox and several letters of the Brutt family. 
                                Orange County
                            .
                        Miss Mary Mielke, Kenosha, 
                                Wisconsin
                            .
                        (X) 74; MS-138
                    
               
                        Bowlin, Amanda; papers, 1863; 1 item, 4 pp.
                        Letter written to her husband Christopher Bowlin (Co. B, 75th Regiment, Indiana Volunteers)
                            in which she tells of the high price of goods and of her concern for his safety. 
                                Tipton County
                            .
                        In 
                                Tipton County
                             Public Library.
                        (X) 21; MS-139
                    
               
                        Bradley, Dr. Burr; papers, 1841-1849; 33 items, 44 pp., typed.
                        Letters of Dr. Bradley and his family containing a variety of items such as economic
                            conditions, weather, family news, religious thoughts, and events of local interest,
                            primarily in 
                                Lafayette
                             and 
                                Salem
                            , Indiana. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (X) 72; MS-140
                    
               
                        Bragdon-Fitch Family; papers, 1832-1866; 32 items, 42 pp.
                        Business and personal letters of a ship building and exporting firm in New 
                                Albany
                            ; receipts, lists of goods carried, costs of building material, and other
                            miscellaneous items. 
                                Floyd County
                            .
                        In New 
                                Albany
                             Public Library.
                        (M-3) 94; MS-141
                    
               
               
                        Brandenburg, Jehu; papers, 1840-1870; 8 items, 9 pp.
                        Three letters concerning flat boating; Brandenburg speaks of cargo carried, prices of goods
                            on the 
                                Memphis
                             packets, description of trip, names of crew. Receipts for purchase of fruit
                            trees, doctors' fees, and taxes. 
                                Harrison County
                            .
                        Mrs. Albert C. Crayden, Ramsey.
                        (X) 1; MS-142
                    
               
                        Bryant, John J.; papers, 1863; 1 item, 1 p., typed.
                        Letter in which Bryant of 
                                Tippecanoe County
                             (Co. K, 15th Regiment, Indiana Volunteers) tells his brother Samuel of his
                            regiment's fight in the Battle of Murfreesboro, 
                        Tennessee. Tippecanoe
                            County
                     .
                        F. J. Scriba, Hobart.
                        (X) 65; MS-143
                    
               
                        Bridges, McGrew, and Deck Family; papers, 1846-1862; 30 items, 71 pp.
                        Two Mexican War and seventeen Civil War letters of Joel McGrew (Co. I, 27th Regiment, Indiana
                            Volunteers) that are well written and describe his war experiences in detail. The Bridges
                            and Deck letters are primarily family letters containing brief comments on conditions and
                            events. 
                                Putnam County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Vincennes
                             Public Library.
                        (M-2) 114; MS-144
                    
               
                        Chambers, Charles J.; papers, 1899-1914; 68 items, 242 pp.
                        Letters from a 
                                Floyd County
                             soldier while serving in the Philippine Insurrection and later as an army
                            regular in the same area; describes camp life in 
                                California
                            , transportation to 
                                Hawaii
                             and the Philippines; mentions type of clothing, equipment, climate, and
                            fighting in the field.
                        New 
                                Albany
                             Public Library.
                        (M-3) 99; MS-145
                    
               
                        
                     
                                Clark
                            , Wanda W.; papers, 1875-1923; 3 items, 9 pp.
                        Letter to Wanda 
                                Clark
                             from eastern 
                                Ohio
                             commenting on economic conditions. Also a reminiscence of early days in 
                                Wabash County
                             which includes mention of pioneer log school houses and roads. 
                                Jay County
                            - 
                                Wabash County
                            .
                        Pennville High School History Club, Pennville.
                        (X) 126; MS-146
                    
               
               
                        Clawson, Charles; papers, 1898; 11 items, 62 pp.
                        Letters to and from parents and brother in 
                                Hendricks County
                             while serving with the 
                                Ohio
                             National Guard during the Spanish American War. Tells of wounded men, yellow
                            fever, mosquitoes, and attitudes of the men toward the conflict. Some letters incomplete.
                        Mrs. Roy Pritchard, Clayton.
                        (X) 24; MS-147
                    
               
                        Cogswell, W. W.; papers, 1891-1897; 78 items, 104 pp.
                        Letters and papers of a school superintendent in 
                                Salem
                            ; business letters, letters concerning class subjects, list of books used in
                            classes, and questions for examination of members of the Indiana Teachers Reading Circle. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (X) 138; MS-148; see also MS-244
                    
               
                        Conklin, William H.; papers, 1873; 1 item, 4 pp.
                        Letter written from Buchanan, 
                                Michigan
                            , to James R. Conklin of Moravia, 
                                New York
                            ; describes northern Indiana with particular emphasis on industry in 
                                South Bend
                             area. Also contains a description of the Buchanan area.
                        In Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                        (X) 81; MS-149
                    
               
                        Cosner, Hanna E.; papers, 1863; 1 item, 1 p., typed.
                        Letter to Miss Mary A. Goss telling of a 4th of July celebration in a town in southern
                            Indiana. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        In 
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (M-7) 121; MS-150
                    
               
                        Crone, George W., and Charles M.; papers, 1864; 1 item, 4 pp.
                        Letter to the Crone brothers from relatives in 
                                Georgia
                            ; tells of the destruction of railroads, struggle between Hood's and
                            Sherman's armies, and call for Yankees to surrender near Resaca, 
                                Georgia
                            .
                        In 
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (X) 15; MS-151
                    
               
               
                        Gurrey, 
                                Milton
                            ; papers, 1863-186[4?]; 2 items, 6 pp.
                        Letters by a 
                                Clay County
                             soldier and member of Co. E, 85th Regiment, Indiana Volunteers, containing a
                            description of Fort Wood near Chattanooga, lack of rations, and general boredom of guard
                            duty.
                        Kent D. Curry, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            .
                        (X) 70; MS-152
                    
               
                        Davis, James; papers, 1839-1843; 2 items, 2 pp.
                        Two letters from Davis to his father, John Davis, giving a general picture of economic
                            conditions in 
                        Fulton County. Fulton County
                     .
                        Mrs. Cecil Davis Burke, North 
                                Manchester
                            .
                        (X) 2; MS-153
                    
               
                        Decker Family; papers, 1861-1865; 29 items, 72 pp.
                        Civil War letters of Elias B. and S. G. Decker of 
                                Owen County
                             to their families. Most of the letters are written by Elias (Co. G, 75th
                            Regiment, Indiana Volunteers) from battlefields near Chattanooga, 
                                Tennessee
                            , Ringold and 
                        Atlanta, Georgia
                     . He writes of general conditions
                            of war, camp life and morale, political beliefs, and other topics.
                        Jared Carter, 
                                Elwood
                            .
                        (X) 41; MS-154
                    
               
                        Dixon Family; papers, 1842-1955; 21 items, 50 pp.
                        Several indentures, land deeds, and family letters of the 1840's. Also a history and
                            plat of the town of Fair Play, Indiana, a town no longer in existence; description of
                            general conditions in pioneer Indiana. 
                                Greene County
                            .
                        Mrs. Mary Sloan, Worthington.
                        (M-3) 114; MS-155; see also MS-8
                    
               
                        Dixon, Reverend F. M.; papers, 1905; 1 item, 6 pp.
                        Open letter from Reverend Dixon to Reverend V. C. McKinsey of 
                                Frankfort
                            , Indiana, concerning the controversy over immersion vs. sprinkling in Christian
                            baptism. 
                                Lawrence County
                            .
                        
                     
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (X) 117; MS-156
                    
               
               
                        Doty Family; papers, 1918-1954; 25 items, 63 pp.
                        Korean War letters of Neil and Ralph Doty to their parents; description of experiences in
                            Korea and Japan with emphasis on family news and the prices of goods in these countries as
                            compared to the United States. Also a letter to Ervin Doty from Albert J. Beveridge
                            concerning the writing ability of Edward Eggleston. 
                                Steuben County
                            .
                        Mrs. Florence B. Doty, Angola.
                        (X) 27; MS-157
                    
               
                        Dunihue, Alexander H.; papers, 1832-1886; 22 items, 57 pp.
                        Correspondence between Dunihue and his children Mary and Charles. Early letters describe
                            economic conditions, political feeling, and a cattle drive from 
                                Bedford
                             to 
                                Texas
                            . Civil War letter from Charles (Co. A, 24th Regiment, Indiana Volunteers). Also
                            letters from William McLane, W. H. Spicely, R. Boyd, and Senator Benjamin 
                                Harrison
                            . The 
                                Harrison
                             letter is a reply to Charles Dunihue's request for military pay due
                            him. 
                                Lawrence County
                            .
                        James Guthrie, 
                                Bedford
                            .
                        (X) 26; MS-158
                    
               
                        Durbin, William; papers, 1825-1846; 4 items, 6 pp.
                        Two indentures and two Mexican War letters of David 
                                Allen
                             (Co. D, 3rd Regiment, Indiana Volunteers). Letters are well written and 
                                Allen
                             comments on economic conditions in Mexico, daily rations, heat of day, movement
                            of troops under General Taylor for Monterey, and nightly drills.
                        Miss Portia Christian, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
                        (X) 111; MS-159
                    
               
                        Elder, Benjamin F.; papers, 1862; 2 items, 7 pp.
                        Two Civil War letters; one from Elder to his mother describes a military band on board a
                            river boat bound for 
                                Kentucky
                            ; the other is from Susan Bell to her son Frank Elder and tells of her concern
                            for his safety and also of general news from home. 
                                Henry County
                            .
                        R. Thomas Mayhill, 
                                Knightstown
                            .
                        (X) 140; MS-160
                    
               
               
                        Ellis-Mattox Family; papers, 1862-1917; 136 items, 567 pp.
                        Interesting family letters that provide a fairly accurate picture of southern Indiana from
                            the Civil War to World War I. Comments on both national and local events; brief index of
                            letters. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        (M-4) 125, Reel #2; MS-161
                    
               
                        Feagler, John; papers, 1878-1904; 3 items, 6 pp.
                        Miscellaneous items consisting of one letter concerning family news, a Certificate of
                            Appointment to Horsethief Detective Association, and another letter telling of the death of
                            a fellow member of the Mascatatuck Tribe No. 99, Imperial Order of Red Men. 
                                Jennings County
                            .
                        Mrs. G. A. McFarland, 
                                Wabash
                            .
                        (X) 71; MS-162
                    
               
                        Ferguson, William H.; papers, 1831-1889; 20 items, 52 pp.
                        Miscellaneous items including indentures, tax receipts, Civil War and family letters. Civil
                            War letters are written by Ferguson (Co. A, 38th Regiment, Indiana Volunteers) information
                            on events in camp, concern for family at home, and an occasional comment on experiences in
                            the war. 
                                Orange County
                            .
                        Mrs. Austa Ferguson McAninch, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                        (X) 135; MS-163
                    
               
                        
                     
                                Floyd County
                            ; papers, 1814-1901; 52 items, 118 pp.
                        Miscellaneous items including tax receipts, indentures, deeds, documents, and other papers of
                            a number of 
                                Floyd County
                             pioneers and citizens. 
                                Floyd County
                            .
                        In New 
                                Albany
                             Public Library.
                        (M-8) 933 Reel #2; MS-164
                    
               
                        Foss, Hugh; papers, 1919; 1 item, 8 pp.
                        A letter written following the close of World War I in which Foss, from 
                                Wayne County
                            , describes his trip through the French Riviera.
                        Mrs. Hugh Foss, 
                                Cambridge City
                            .
                        (X) 47; MS-165
                    
               
               
                        Frank, Andrew; papers, 1862[?]-1863; 5 items, 14 pp.
                        Civil War letters to and from his brother Ambrose who was serving with Co. C, 66th Regiment,
                            Indiana Volunteers. The letters reflect both the attitude at home and on the war front.
                            General comment about war experiences. 
                                Floyd County
                            .
                        Mrs. V. B. Cummings, Tell City.
                        (X) 67; MS-166
                    
               
                        
                     
                                Franklin County
                            ; papers, 1814-1878; 17 items, 27 pp.
                        Miscellaneous documents and papers relating to 
                                Franklin County
                            ; includes various indentures, treasurer's report, building plans for a
                            road from 
                                Connersville
                             to 
                                Brookville
                            , specifications for a Grange hall, and other items. 
                                Franklin County
                            .
                        Virgil Davis, 
                                Brookville
                            .
                        (X) 144; MS-167
                    
               
                        Graham, William; papers, 1838; 1 item, 1 p.
                        Letter written by Indiana Representative Graham, a Whig in the Twenty-fifth Congress, to John
                            Wright concerning the sub-treasury bill which Graham believed to be a "great
                            danger" to the country. 
                                Jackson County
                            .
                        Vineennes Public Library.
                        (M-8) 121; MS-168
                    
               
                        Greenwood, William; papers, 1966; 3 items, 3 pp.
                        Brief letters describing conditions aboard a Navy ship docked at a Hawaiian port. Greenwood,
                            from 
                                Marion County
                            , speaks of preparations being made to the ship before heading for Viet Nam.
                        In Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                        (X) 56; MS-169
                    
               
                        Guthrie, James; papers, 1835-1963; 6 items, 16 pp.
                        Miscellaneous items of the 
                                Bedford
                             area; social life in 
                                Bedford
                             around 1897; story of 
                                Bedford
                            's first school bell; letter of William McLane; list of subscribers to
                            the Saturday Evening Post, 1835, and other items. 
                                Lawrence County
                            .
                        James Guthrie, 
                                Bedford
                            .
                        (X) 53; MS-170
                    
               
               
                        Guthrie, 
                                Mitchell
                            ; papers, 1902-1909; 6 items, 34 pp.
                        Letter from Will Reynolds while stationed at Fort McHenry, 
                                Baltimore
                            , in 1902; description of the fort and comments on military duties. Also a
                            letter by H. T. Dodd aboard the USS Kearsarge describing an
                            around-the-world cruise in 1909.
                        James Guthrie, 
                                Bedford
                            .
                        (X) 91; MS-171
                    
               
                        Hallet, Edwin; papers, 1881-1896; 5 items, 22 pp.
                        Letters from Hallet to his parents in 
                                Clark County
                            , Indiana, while a student at Normal University in 
                                Ohio
                            . One letter describes the gloom that prevailed over the country after the death
                            of President Garfield. Other letters were written from 
                                Nebraska
                             and 
                                Kansas
                             and contain general family news.
                        Jeffrey Callam, Borden.
                        (X) 55; MS-172
                    
               
                        
                     
                                Hamilton
                            , Archibald; papers, 1807-1840; 17 items, 16 pp., typed.
                        Letters written to 
                                Hamilton
                             from relatives inform Carolina; comments on economic conditions in Carolina
                            with some reference to those in southern Indiana. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        In 
                                Washington County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Salem
                            .
                        (X) 72; MS-173
                    
               
                        Hardin, John J.; papers, 1839-1866; 107 items, 316 pp.
                        Correspondence of the Hardin children—Ballard, John J., Amanda, and her husband
                            Benjamin Stout, and their parents. John was a member of Co. E, 23rd Regiment, Indiana
                            Volunteers, and his brother Ballard was with Co. A, 81st Regiment, Indiana Volunteers. John
                            writes of military campaigns, camp life and morale, the campaign at 
                                Shiloh
                            , and several other western engagements in 
                                Mississippi
                             and 
                                Louisiana
                            . The letters are very descriptive and written with an observing eye. Early
                            items are letters and an indenture concerning the 
                                Salem
                             area. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        Earl R. Boston, Salem.
                        (X) 13, 42; MS-174; see also MS-175
                    
               
               
                        Hardin Family; papers, 1859-1892; 8 items, 30 pp.
                        Letters of John W., John J., and Amanda Hardin (later Stout) to their parents and relatives
                            in the 
                                Washington County
                             and southern Indiana area. Letters (except for the Civil War letters of John J.
                            Hardin) are of general family interest but contain some information on local and national
                            events. 
                                Washington County
                            .
                        Earl 
                        Boston, Salem
                     .
                        (X) 143; MS-175; see also MS-174
                    
               
                        Heaton, Ebenezar; papers, 1865; 1 item, 1 p.
                        A brief note to his mother added to the end of a letter from Peter Moore to his wife. Heaton
                            and Moore were members of Co. K., 153rd Regiment, Indiana Volunteers. Heaton (from 
                                Tipton County
                            ) comments on being tired of service and the wish for an end to the Civil War.
                        In 
                                Tipton County
                             Public Library, 
                                Tipton
                            .
                        (X) 21; MS-176
                    
            
         
         
         
            Awards of Merit and Certificates of Commendation from American Association for State and Local
                    History
            All nominations must be made on the "Awards Nomination Form" andpostmarked by not later than June 29, 1968. Each nominator must include a supporting
                    letter which is explicit in indicating why the award or certificate seems merited. Each nominator is
                    also responsible for making certain that at least two or three other persons send similar statements
                        directly to the state chairman. Finally, each nominator should send relevant
                    supporting material such as pamphlets, newspaper clippings, programs, scripts, and books. The views
                    and evaluations of various persons will be considered regarding each nomination.
            1. Certificate of Commendation. The Certificate of Commendation is given for
                    outstanding achievement by an individual or an organization in the field of state, provincial, and
                    local history, but with that achievement judged in the light of local limiting circumstances rather
                    than on a basis of over-all excellence in the United States and Canada as a whole. This is an award
                    of encouragement and commendation to a person or group which by great effort has accomplished
                    something that is really outstanding within its own area. It matters not that the accomplishment is
                    less than the achievements of similar groups in wealthier or more sophisticated areas of the
                    country. The certificate is a pat on the back and says to the individual or organization that
                    receives it: "We think you are doing a wonderful job in your area, and we want to recognize
                    you for it."
            2. The Award of Merit. This was the original award of the American Association for
                    State and Local History and is still the backbone of its competition. It is given for excellence of
                    accomplishment or program in the field of state, provincial, and local history, and is in no way
                    judged relative to local limiting circumstances. The giving of the Award of Merit is the same as
                    saying to everyone: "This is public acknowledgement by the American Association for State
                    and Local History that this accomplishment or this program, in comparison with all similar
                    accomplishments and programs in North America, deserves the adjective excellent." The term
                    "excellent" is not employed in the archaic sense of excelling all others, but in
                    the modern sense of extremely good, first class, of great inherent worth. This distinction is
                    important because it should be clearly understood that an award to one organization for a particular
                    kind of program does not bar another organization from receiving an award for a similar program, if
                    both programs are indeed excellent.
            Nomination forms are available from Donald F. Carmony, Library 48, Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana 47401, who is chairman for nominations from Indiana for 1968.
         
         
         
            Papers of George W. Julian Desired
            John C. Hammerback, graduate student in speech and theatre at Indiana University, requests material
                    on Indiana abolitionist George W. Julian, especially information concerning Julian's
                    education and antislavery action to 1865. Address all correspondence to John C. Hammerback,
                    Department of Speech and Theatre, Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana 47401.
         
         
            Papers of Waller Taylor Desired
            Donald E. Baker, graduate student in history at Indiana University, is writing a paper on the career
                    of Waller Taylor, judge of the Indiana Territorial General Court, 1806-1816, and United States
                    Senator, 1816-1825. Taylor was a good friend of William Henry Harrison and served with the general
                    at the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     and during the 
                        Ohio
                     Campaigns of 1813. He died in 
                  Lunenburg
                        County, Virginia
               , in 1826. Letters,
                    documents, or any other information on Taylor's public or private life are desired. Address
                    all correspondence to Donald E. Baker, 515 E. First Street, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana 47401.
         
         
            Books and Reading in 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana, 1800–1850
            Michael H. Harris, graduate student in library science at Indiana University, is preparing a study of
                    the importance of books and reading in 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana through 1850. Information on manuscript records of publishers, libraries,
                    and letters of early settlers relating to books and reading are especially desired. Address all
                    correspondence to Michael H. Harris, Graduate Library School, Education 24, Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana 47401.
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               The Ku Klux Klan in the City, 19151930. By Kenneth T. Jackson. The Urban Life in America Series. Edited by Richard C. Wade. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Oxford
                     University Press, 1967. Pp. xv, 326. Tables, figures, notes, note on sources, index.
                    $7.50.)
            The most recent addition to the new Urban Life in America series is the revised
                    doctoral dissertation of one of Richard Wade's graduate students at the University of 
                        Chicago
                    . In a scholarly and illuminating fashion, 
                        Jackson
                     devotes the greater part of his book to a detailed description of Klan composition,
                    activities, and influence in nine major American cities: 
                  Atlanta, Chicago
               , Dallas,
                            
                  Denver, Detroit, Indianapolis, Knoxville, Memphis
               , and 
                        Portland
                    . By employing a variation of the case study method, the author reveals the considerable
                    influence of the urban Klans in both state and national organizations and makes a strong case for
                    his assertion that the city klansmen provided most of the leadership, resources, and the essential
                    dynamics of the movement. The typical urban Klan member is characterized as a lower middle-class,
                    blue-collar worker who had less education and community status than his country counterpart and came
                    from a neighborhood whose residential stability was threatened by European immigrants and Negroes
                    moving from farm to city and from South to North. The author's research leads him to the
                    conclusion that the Klan was "not a reaction against the rise of the city to dominance in
                    American life," but "rather a reaction against the aspirations of certain elements
                    within the city" (p. 245).
            Despite his efforts, however, 
                        Jackson
                    's work does not seriously challenge the commonly accepted view that the Ku
                    Klux Klan of the 1920's was essentially an expression of the decline of rural America and
                    its value system in the face of the rising modern, industrial society found in the cities. To
                    suggest that the Klan was not rural in its mentality simply because it was active and influential in
                    several carefully selected cities, which are not representative of the entire nation, is neither
                    logical nor justified.
            Although rich in descriptive detail and well written, the case studies are, like much Klan
                    literature, somewhat disjointed and often filled with inconsequential facts which do little to
                    support the author's case. While the book's documentation is generally handled in
                    a careful, scholarly fashion, there are occasional lapses when certain critical statements are not
                    supported. For example, the assertions that 500 of the 1,300 delegates to the 1924 Indiana State
                    Republican Convention were loyal to Grand Dragon David C. Stephenson (p. 155) and that the Klan
                    elected the governor and a majority of the state legislature (p. 156) would seem to require some
                    form of substantiation.
            These criticisms are somewhat mitigated by the many problems encountered in attempting to penetrate
                    the mysteries of the Invisible Empire. The dearth of source material, which is largely the result of
                    the secrecy of the order and the reluctance of individuals to divulge information about their  association with a thoroughly discredited organization, makes
                    Klan research a very difficult and frustrating experience.
            The most valuable portion of the book is the brief but perceptive concluding section which presents
                    the central findings of the study. Another outstanding feature is the annotated
                    bibliography—one of the most exhaustive compilations of Klan primary and secondary
                    sources.
            The spadework done by Jackson is an important contribution to Klan literature and prepares the way
                    for more intensive work on the subject. Some of the author's contentions, such as his
                    assertions that there is a significant correlation between urban population growth and Klan success,
                    that economic philosophy was not an important Klan concern, and that urban klansmen were in the main
                    not recent rural migrants, will require further probing before they can be accepted as valid. A
                    definitive history of the Klan in the city remains to be written inasmuch as many questions are left
                    unsettled, unfocused, or unraised.
            
                    Indiana State University
                
            Herbert J. Rissler
         
         
            
               The Frontier against Slavery: Western AntiNegro Prejudice and the Slavery
                        Extension Controversy. By Eugene H. Berwanger. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1967. Pp. viii, 176. Notes, note on sources, bibliography, index.
                    $5.95.)
            In his introduction the author states: "This book reveals that prejudice against Negroes was
                    a factor in the development of antislavery feeling in the ante-bellum United States" (p.
                    1). He amasses irrefutable evidence to support this thesis in his study, which deals with the states
                    of the Old Northwest plus 
                  Iowa, California, Oregon
               , and 
                        Kansas
                    .
            Berwanger shows that anti-Negro sentiment became more pronounced in the years from 1846 to 1860, the
                    same period in which the controversy over the extension of slavery became most acute. He
                    demonstrates that in all the states and territories under consideration opposition to the expansion
                    of slavery and proposals to exclude free Negroes were linked and were often advocated by the same
                    groups. Many Republican leaders emphasized that they opposed slavery in the territories because they
                    wanted to preserve those lands exclusively for white men. In 
                        Iowa
                     a popular campaign slogan was: "WE ARE FOR LAND FOR THE LANDLESS, NOT NIGGERS
                    FOR THE NIGGERLESS" (p. 131).
            Probably the most striking contribution of the book is its demonstration that emigrants from the
                    older states of the Middle West carried their racial attitudes to the new territories of the West.
                    Thus the story of Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                     was repeated in 
                  Iowa, California, Oregon
               , and 
                        Kansas
                    , where the settlers showed themselves to be both antislavery and anti-Negro. In every
                    case proposals to legalize slavery were rejected; but in every case proposals to exclude free
                    Negroes were adopted or at least seriously considered. In 
                    
                        Oregon
                    , for example, slavery was prohibited by the Constitution of 1857, but an article
                    barring free Negroes was also incorporated.
            In 
                        Kansas
                     the vast majority of settlers (who came mainly from the Old Northwest or from the
                    nonslaveholding population of 
                        Missouri
                    ) were unconcerned about the morality of slavery, but they saw in the antislavery
                    movement an opportunity to exclude all Negroes. The antislavery men from 
                        New England
                    , who advocated equality for Negroes, were an ineffectual minority. James H. Lane,
                    formerly of Indiana, supported and led the so-called 
                        Topeka
                     Movement only on the condition that Negro exlusion be linked with opposition to
                    slavery. The 
                        Topeka
                     constitutional convention of 1855 prohibited slavery and adopted an exclusion article
                    which was ratified by a large margin in a referendum. The fact that the Wyandotte Constitution of
                    1859 under which 
                        Kansas
                     was ultimately admitted did not contain an exclusion article was due in part to
                    congressional opposition. But this constitution denied Negroes the right to vote and permitted
                    segregated schools.
            Some of Berwanger's findings have been anticipated by earlier studies of individual states.
                    But he has focused attention on a significant facet of the antislavery movement, and he has
                    reinforced and illuminated the work of earlier scholars by a prodigious amount of work in
                    manuscripts, newspapers, and public documents. His book is heavily footnoted and contains an
                    impressive bibliography.
            
                    
                  
                            Butler
                         University
                
            Emma Lou Thornbrough
         
         
            
               Clio's Servant: The State Historical Society of 
                            Wisconsin
                        , 18461954. By Clifford L. Lord and Carl Ubbelohde. (
                        Madison
                    : The State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , 1967. Pp. x, 598. Notes, illustrations, sources, index. $10.00.)
            This substantial volume traces the history of the State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                     from its halting beginnings in 1846 to the proud rededication of its building in 1955.
                    The story is one of impressive achievement in the preservation and dissemination of the American
                    heritage. A central feature of that achievement has been the development of the society's
                    library—described by Frederick 
                        Jackson
                     Turner as "one of the great treasures of the country." Of equal
                    importance have been the society's broad educational programs through which the people of 
                        Wisconsin
                     have become meaningfully involved in their past. A great influence in shaping the
                    history of the society has been its close association with the University of 
                        Wisconsin
                    —for many years the society's library was the
                    university's—and the society has also had an important influence on the
                    university, having been a significant force in the development of its program in American history.
            Appropriately, the story centers around the careers of the men who served the society as chief
                    administrator: Lyman Copeland Draper, Reuben Gold Thwaites, Milo M. Quaife, Joseph C. Schafer, and
                    Edward P. Alexander.  Draper is justly celebrated for his
                    efforts in establishing the society and in building its collections, but it is Thwaites who emerges
                    preeminent as the builder of the State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                     in its present form. Thwaites became associated with the society in 1885 as
                    Draper's assistant. Two years later, upon Draper's retirement, he became
                    "corresponding secretary," and until his death in 1913 served as the
                    society's chief administrator. During these years the society secured its own building,
                    enlarged and systematized its collections, developed a highly competent professional staff,
                    established a firm relationship with the University of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , and began a program of public education that extended to all parts of the state. While
                    leading this growing enterprise, Thwaites wrote fifteen volumes and was responsible for editing 183.
                    Quaife and later Schafer continued, and in some respects improved upon, Thwaites' scholarly
                    activities, but neither had the administrative abilities to manage the complex organization which
                    Thwaites had created, and the society, particularly during the depression years of the
                    1930's, went into a serious decline. Edward P. Alexander, who became superintendent upon
                    Schafer's death in 1941, began the task of rebuilding which was to place 
                        Wisconsin
                     again in the forefront of the historical society movement—a task that was
                    carried to fulfillment by Clifford L. Lord, who became director in 1946 and who is much too modest
                    in writing of his own accomplishments.
            As Lord suggests in the preface, this is both an administrator's history and a family
                    history. As such, it is burdened in spots with more detail than the non-
                        Wisconsin
                     reader will require. These spots are few in number, however, and generally the
                    narrative sustains the reader's interest. As a definitive study of one of the
                    nation's great societies, Clio's Servant makes a significant
                    contribution to our understanding of the historical society as an institution.
            
                    The University of 
                            Nebraska
                        
               
                
            James G. Olson
         
         
            
               The Story of Grand Rapids. Edited by Z. Z. Lydens. (Grand Rapids, Mich.: Kregel
                    Publications, 1966. Pp. xix, 682. Illustrations, notes, appendix, bibliography, indices.
                    $9.95.)
            Z. Z. Lydens, veteran newspaperman and editor of The Story of Grand Rapids, is
                    obviously proud of his city; his city has every right to be proud of this book. Produced under the
                    auspices of the Grand Rapids Historical Commission, The Story is a cooperative
                    project, with thirty-one persons listed as contributing editors. The remarkable unity, organization,
                    and homogeneity of style should doubtless be attributed to the firm editorial hand of Lydens.
            The first ten chapters, which trace the development of municipal government from pioneer days to the
                    present, are organized chronologically. The remaining twenty-nine chapters are topical and include a
                    broad range of city concerns—from hotels to cemeteries to sewers. The emphasis is on the
                    twentieth century, with references to 1966 occurring from the very first chapters. No worshipper of
                    the past, Lydens forthrightly describes such an unpalatable 
                    phase of Grand Rapids' history as the water scandal of the 1890's. Nor does he
                    dwell on only nineteenth-century controversies. Lydens notes the bitterness resulting from the
                    resignation of a school superintendent in 1949, as well as the infighting involved in the
                    appointment of city managers. Although the narrative is studded with dates, names, and facts, the
                    author writes with verve and in a sprightly style. He skillfully weaves detail into many a
                    fascinating incident. In describing the "piggeries," which performed the function
                    of municipal garbage disposal well into the twentieth century, Lydens relates that one day the pigs
                    "disposed" of peaches pickled in alcohol and got drunk.
            Curiously, Lydens concludes that the history of Grand Rapids is "much like" that of
                    other American cities (p. 8). Yet several distinctive features emerge from the book. A pioneer in
                    the city-manager form of government, Grand Rapids has not been well served by city
                    managers—"tribulations were manifest …" (p. 72). The nub of
                    the problem, according to the editor, is that commissioners "delegate some of their
                    sovereignty to a hired hand [the city manager] while remaining responsible for the hired
                    hand's actions" (p. 72).
            Though Lydens carefully emphasizes that Grand Rapids has always had a diversified economy, certainly
                    the furniture industry has been preeminent and made Grand Rapids a synonym for high quality
                    furniture. In part, the industry thrived because of the presence of skilled Dutch craftsmen. Some 30
                    percent of the city's residents in 1966, the Dutch have constituted the distinctive ethnic
                    element in the population. Their austere, intense religious faith made their churches, as well as
                    their parochial schools, central in their lives. The Dutch, conservative, strong in "purity
                    of heart," with "fixed and burning eyes on sin" (p. 87), lived on the
                    east side of the city; the political opposition, liberal Poles and Lithuanians, lived on the west
                    side and "found it hard necessarily to equate fun with sin" (p. 87).
            The book is not cluttered with footnotes. The preface and bibliography indicate that its principal
                    sources are newspapers, earlier local histories, and materials donated or loaned by the public. Some
                    70,000 "item cards" based on these materials provided the "string on
                    which the beads of the Grand Rapids story were strung" (p. ix). With the exception of some
                    short quotations from Civil War diaries, no manuscript sources were utilized.
            Technically, the book is impressive. Its attractive format results from wide margins, full-color
                    illustrations, high quality paper, and excellent printing. The subject and name indices are helpful;
                    the proofreading, meticulous. Concern for accuracy of statement is obvious.
            The chairman of the Grand Rapids Historical Commission fixed among the purposes of the book:
                    "to illuminate the past … to shed light on the present," and to aid
                    planning for the future (p. xvii). Such a statement is peculiarly ironic since the year after
                    publication, 1967, was also the year of racial riots at 
                        Newark
                     and 
                        Detroit
                    , and the short section of the book devoted to Negroes scarcely hints at racial
                    difficulties. Such an omission in an otherwise excellent history is in itself a commentary on
                    twentieth-century urban America.
            
                    Central 
                            Michigan
                         University
                
            George M. Blackburn
         
         
         
            
               The Whig Party in 
                            Missouri
                        
               . By John Vollmer Mering. University of 
                            Missouri
                         Studies, Volume XLI. (
                        Columbia
                    : University of 
                        Missouri
                     Press, 1967. Notes, bibliography, index. $4.00.)
            An analytical narrative of "the opposition," The Whig Party in 
                            Missouri
                        
                is an important addition to the still rather small number of studies of
                    political institutions at the state level during the middle period. The author finds origins of the
                    party in the presidential election of 1824-1825, but Whiggery was a tardy development, and although
                    the term "Whig" was used in 1835 to refer to the 
                        Clay
                    , anti-
                        Jackson
                    , or opposition party, it was not until 1838 or 1839 that a Whig party appeared as an
                    organization. During the decade 1830-1840 and most of the following ten years Mering finds that it
                    functioned more as a "political pressure group" than as a "political
                    party." Throughout its entire existence of thirty years until its sudden (and in
                    Mering's view complete) destruction in 1855 the Whig party in 
                        Missouri
                     was almost always a minority and thus generally unsuccessful in winning elections and
                    appointments.
            The story is told largely in terms of thirty-five leaders at the state level, almost all of them
                    Whigs, and it centers on congressional, gubernatorial, and presidential campaigns and elections.
                    Maneuverings for nominations, calculations of the course to pursue between 
                        Benton
                     and anti-
                        Benton
                     wings of the Democratic party, and attitudes toward questions of public (state and
                    national) policy provide much of the substance. Lawyers and editors rather than planters, farmers,
                    or businessmen thus dominate the stage. The "common man," the voter, whether Whig
                    or Democrat, is seldom seen except statistically. No extended treatment is given to the development
                    of committees, public meetings, electioneering, tickets, ballots, or voting practices, and there is
                    almost nothing on the relation between state and local politics.
            Three early chapters present a detailed survey, analysis, and interpretation of social and economic
                    data. "Certainly," writes the author, "slaveowners tended to identify
                    with the Democratic party" (p. 62). But to balance this view he notes "the greater
                    wealth of the Whig party and the more impressive educational attainments of its leadership"
                    (p. 68), and he comments that "
                        Missouri
                     Whiggery's business orientation undoubtedly goes far to explain its poor
                    reception in an overwhelmingly agricultural state" (p. 68). Such observations and many
                    others based on extensive and elaborately documented research make these chapters a valuable essay
                    on the bases of Whig politics.
            A wealth of research and penetrating analysis is evident in this volume. Illuminating remarks made
                    almost casually in the narrative suggest many further avenues for exploration. The book is an
                    outstanding example of the new political history—informed, thoughtful, well organized,
                    and lucidly written. The reviewer hopes that a paperbound edition may be made available so that this
                    volume can be placed more readily in the hands of a wider audience.
            
                    
                  
                            Ohio
                         University
                
            Harry R. Stevens
         
         
         
            
               Moravian Architecture and Town Planning: 
                            Bethlehem
                        , Pennsylvania, and other Eighteenth-Century American Settlements. By William
                    J. Murtagh. (Chapel Hill: The University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1967. Pp. viii, 145. Notes, illustrations, bibliography, index.
                    $8.75.)
            Qualities we hope for in American "new towns"—and over fifty are on the
                    drawing boards—were all present in planning for the Moravian new towns of the
                    mid-eighteenth century. Murtagh's Moravian Architecture and Town Planning
                    records the Moravians' "conscious concern for the total visual and functional
                    environment of their communities …" (p. 9). That concern involved: their unique
                    social order, a kind of Christian communism; their agrarian crafts and manufacturing abilities;
                    their recognition of climatological, topographical, and material resources of the areas they
                    planned; their creativity within the building technology of the day; and, certainly, their concern
                    for coherent visual qualities in the planned environment.
            Both the eighteenth century relation of church and state, with its sublimation of individual ideals
                    to a larger social framework, and Moravian missionary zeal contributed to the organization and
                    planning for Moravian colonization. American Moravians trace their name to Moravia—now
                    Czechoslovakia—and their history from John Huss and the Hussite League. Their American
                    missionary efforts began in the West Indies in 1732. An unsuccessful settlement in Savannah, 
                        Georgia
                    , in 1736 preceded their first significant colonial settlement in 
                        Bethlehem
                    , Pennsylvania, about 1740.
            Best preserved and best recorded were the 
                        Bethlehem
                    , Pennsylvania, and the later 
                  Salem,
                            North Carolina
                settlements. 
                        Bethlehem
                     followed Germanic rather than English architectural and planning concepts. Murtagh,
                    former head of the National Trust for Historic Preservation, served as executive secretary of
                    Historic 
                        Bethlehem
                    , Incorporated; and most of his research centers on 
                        Bethlehem
                     and Germanic influences. Hence the subtitle: "
                        Bethlehem
                    , Pennsylvania, and other Eighteenth Century American Settlements."
            The planning of 
                        Bethlehem
                    , which required approval in Europe by a conference of elders, resulted in the
                    correspondence of many groups here and abroad, and the very complete diaries, records, plans, and
                    proposals researched by the author. Early records were in German, but the planner for the later town
                    of 
                  Salem, North
                            Carolina
               , required that the diary be kept in English. These records in
                    original or translated form comprise many interesting footnotes to the author's text.
            Excellent in graphics and typography, carefully researched in material, thoroughly bibliographed and
                    indexed, the volume is interesting reading and exciting historical research. It should be required reading for a public which needs an understanding of twentieth century
                    planning process, a knowledge of the exemplary and environmentally successful precedents set by
                    eighteenth century Moravian towns.
            
                    Ball State University
                
            Charles M. Sappenfield
         
         
         
            
               Workshops in the Wilderness: The European Response to American Industrialization,
                        18301860. By Marvin Fisher. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Oxford
                     University Press, 1967. Pp. viii, 238. Notes, bibliography, index. $6.00.)
            In this brief but lucid book, Fisher joins the ranks of those historians who have recently begun to
                    reassess the significance of American industrial growth in the three decades preceding the Civil
                    War. He believes that the industrial process was firmly established in the United States by 1860,
                    that it had already begun to exert a strong influence on American life, and that it provided
                    opportunities in cities for advancement which rivaled those offered by the frontier. Specifically,
                    Fisher is concerned with the response to these developments by European visitors who came to the
                    United States between 1830 and 1860.
            To most European visitors, the United States appeared as a land of abundance and opportunity. Fisher
                    maintains that their writings reflect a keen perception of the country's agrarian promise
                    ("myth of the garden") as well as its industrial potential ("myth of the
                    workshops"). These seemingly contradictory views actually merge into a new
                    image—"America as potential paradise" (see chapter 3). In describing
                    the new image, foreign observers were generally optimistic and prophetic. They recognized that the
                    American experiment in industrialization was unique and that many of the evils inherent in the
                    European systems could be avoided in the United States. A few critics, most notably Alexis de
                    Tocqueville, predicted that the new technology would have an adverse affect on society, but most
                    visitors revealed their faith in American progress.
            Fisher develops his thesis admirably. He has been selective in choosing his commentators and in
                    dealing with highly subjective evidence. But recognizing these limitations, he believes that
                    European observers have provided not only a "meaningful commentary" on the early
                    industrial development of the United States but also insights into the European's
                    conception of America. Most readers will agree. In using this type of evidence, however, it would
                    seem that footnotes would be of greater value if they had been placed in the text. It is
                    disconcerting to come across a particularly interesting observation and have to turn to the back of
                    the book for the source.
            This book is a significant contribution to the historiography of American cultural history. It will,
                    however, also be of interest to social and economic historians. Particularly valuable is the
                    "Checklist of European Comments on America, 1830-1860."
            
                    University of 
                            Maryland
                        
               
                
            Richard T. Farrell
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Owen
                         Lovejoy: Abolitionist in Congress. By Edward Magdol. (
                        New Brunswick
                    , N. J.: Rutgers University Press, 1967. Pp. xi, 493. Frontispiece, notes, bibliography,
                    index. $10.00)
            A friendly contemporary claimed that "Lovejoy was the real hero of the antislavery
                    cause" (p. x). Edward Magdol, author of this first published examination of the 
                        Illinois
                     abolitionist, emphatically agrees. He admits in the  foreword that he is "frankly partisan," and, indeed, his appraisal is highly
                    favorable; yet this volume, resting solidly on the sources, can properly be judged history rather
                    than special pleading. Historians should welcome this study of a significant but previously
                    neglected figure.
            Even before proslavery men murdered his brother Elijah Lovejoy in 1837, 
                        Owen
                     Lovejoy had accepted abolitionism. From that time on, however, antislavery ideas became
                    the passion of his life. Magdol traces the evolution of his tactics from moral suasion, to hazy
                    "immediate emancipation," to direct action in the form of participation in the
                    Underground Railroad (which the author believes was widespread despite a recent skeptical study),
                    and finally to political abolitionism. Lovejoy labored nearly two decades in the antislavery
                    movement before being elected to public office. In 1854 he was elected to the 
                        Illinois
                     legislature and in 1856 to the United States House of Representatives, serving there
                    until his death in 1864. Although his name is directly linked with only one act of
                    Congress—the abolition of slavery in the territories of the United States—he
                    was instrumental in gaining the passage of the Homestead Act and in the creation of a bureau of
                    agriculture. A rugged, sanguine activist, Lovejoy was an attractive leader in the struggle for
                    emancipation and civil liberties.
            One of the most interesting aspects of Magdol's study is his discussion of the collaboration
                    and friendship between the radical 
                        Owen
                     Lovejoy and the moderate Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    . Among the first to recognize the depth of 
                        Lincoln
                    's commitment to antislavery and the need for a united front of antislavery
                    forces, Lovejoy tried to work harmoniously with 
                        Lincoln
                     while struggling to win him to a policy of immediate emancipation. The 
                        Illinois
                     abolitionist consistently defended 
                        Lincoln
                     before his detractors, and 
                        Lincoln
                    , upon hearing that Lovejoy was dying, said, "Lovejoy was the best friend I had
                    in Congress" (p. 403). Magdol suggests that the relationship between Lovejoy and 
                        Lincoln
                     casts further doubt on the alleged dichotomy between 
                        Lincoln
                     and the Radicals.
            Ransacking libraries and manuscript collections in many states, Magdol turned up more of the
                    "public, political man" than the private man and has been handicapped in his
                    efforts to describe the wellsprings of Lovejoy's behavior. The author, for instance, does
                    not explain why or how Lovejoy was converted to antislavery. To his credit, however, he has used
                    scanty personal records with insight and skill and has admirably blended character and career.
                    Although the study is on the whole adequately documented, interesting detail is sometimes not
                    supported by the sources. Proof that members of the House of Representatives "set down
                    their pens, put aside papers, and postponed chats" when Lovejoy debated cannot be found in
                    the Congressional Globe (p. 315). Nevertheless, this handsomely prepared political
                    biography is generally well written, well researched, and in this reviewer's opinion well
                    worth reading.
            
                    
                  
                            Stanford
                         University
                
            James L. Roark
         
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Lincoln
                         vs. Douglas: The Great Debates Campaign. By Richard 
                        Allen
                     Heckman. (
                        Washington
                    : Public Affairs Press, 1967. Pp. v, 192. Illustrations, appendices, notes, selected
                    bibliography, index. $5.00.)
            In this useful monograph Heckman of 
                        Berea
                     College summarizes the political context, argument, and results of the 
                        Lincoln
                    -Douglas debates of 1858. Relying largely upon contemporary newspaper and manuscript
                    sources, he provides a realistic, well-documented, and sometimes vivid narrative that is
                    sympathetic, even generous, to both contenders. Quoting impartially from Democratic and Republican
                    papers, the author conveys a sense of the bitter partisanship and volatile excitement that
                    prevailed. An aroused Republican editor, for example, described the Little Giant as full of
                    "spleen, verbose nonsense and weak falsification" (p. 127), while his Democratic
                    counterpart called 
                        Lincoln
                     "as queer looking as he is queer spoken" (p. 90). Heckman concludes
                    that Lincoln and Douglas "spoke as if they were trying a case with the audience as
                    jury" (p. 33). Direct quotations from 
                        Lincoln
                    's letters enliven the text and testify to his modesty and humor.
                    "Douglas and I …" 
                        Lincoln
                     reported after the first debate at 
                        Ottawa
                    , "crossed swords here yesterday, the fire flew some, and I am glad to know I
                    am yet alive" (p. 86). Reporting the same encounter, Horace Greeley's 
                        New York
                    
                    Tribune claimed that Lincoln "chawed" Douglas up.
            Focusing primarily on slavery and its extension (and, like the candidates, ignoring other relevant
                    political and economic motivations), Heckman analyzes the arguments presented, cites the opinions of
                    conflicting scholars, and takes a firm position when he feels that the evidence warrants a
                    conclusion. He labels as "a gross exaggeration" 
                        Lincoln
                    's "implications that Franklin Pierce, James Buchanan, Roger B. Taney,
                    and Douglas" were "a part of a conspiracy to make slavery a national
                    institution" (p. 85). He disagrees with the view that Lincoln "risked
                    defeat" in 1858 in order "to force Douglas into a position unacceptable to the
                    Southern wing of the Democratic party." This is, Heckman says, "a fairy story
                    which attributes to 
                        Lincoln
                     'fortune telling' powers he did not possess." Heckman
                    consequently discounts the legend that Lincoln told Joseph Medill, "I am
                        killing larger game. The battle of 1860 is worth a hundred of this" (pp. 92-93).
            Heckman makes little effort to analyze the influence of the debating upon the voting. Nor does he
                    cite the study of Forest L. Whan, who, after an analysis of election statistics, suggests that
                    Lincoln fared better in those counties where he did not speak. Modern procedures make studies of
                    shift of voter opinion feasible and should prompt the author to pursue further research on this
                    ultimate question of the 1858 canvass.
            The Public Affairs Press should be applauded for issuing this study, as well as for publishing an
                    impressive series of monographs on American political campaigning. The editors should be encouraged,
                    however, to provide better copy reading, larger type, and a more attractive format than they
                    provided in this volume.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Robert G. Gunderson
         
         
         
            
               An Early View of the Land-
                            Grant
                         Colleges: Convention of Friends of Agricultural Education in 1871. Edited by
                    Richard A. Hatch. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, for the Committee on the Centennial of the University of 
                        Illinois
                    , 1967. Pp. xv, 147. Notes. $5.50.)
            At a time when educational change is the order of the day, it is refreshing and informative to read
                    what some educators were saying about education and its problems nearly one hundred years ago. An Early View of the Land-
                            Grant
                         Colleges is a report on the proceedings of the Convention of Friends of
                    Agricultural Education held at 
                        Chicago
                     in August, 1871. It was the first time that representatives of the new land-grant
                    colleges met together to discuss their individual and mutual problems. There were twenty-nine
                    presidents and professors of agricultural colleges and friends of agriculture at the convention. A
                    representative of the 
                  
                            Prairie
                         Farmer made a record of the proceedings which otherwise might have been lost.
            The formal papers and general discussions centered around a number of problems of current importance.
                    These included the place of teaching and research in higher education, the admission of women, the
                    role of experiment stations, the question of students working for the colleges, student
                    responsibility for their own government, and continued relations among agricultural educators. Two
                    of the main problems under consideration—the emphasis upon teaching and research and
                    student self-government on the campus—sound as revelant in 1968 as they did in 1871. This
                    book is mainly useful because it gives something of the educational flavor of the times and outlines
                    some of the challenges facing educators in the years right after the Civil War. It is a valuable
                    contemporary document for the history of both agricultural and general education.
            
                    University of 
                            Oklahoma
                        
               
                
            Gilbert C. Fite
         
         
            
               The Papers of Woodrow Wilson. Volume III, 18841885.
                    Edited by Arthur S. Link. (
                        Princeton
                    , N. J.: 
                        Princeton
                     University Press, 1967. Pp. xi, 648. Notes, illustrations, index. $15.00.)
            In this, the third of some forty projected volumes of The Papers of Woodrow Wilson,
                    students of the twenty-eighth president's career will discover much that is new and
                    enlightening, some that is familiar. Common to all the more than four hundred items, however, is the
                    human dimension they give to an estimate of Woodrow Wilson. The conventional Wilson is an austere,
                    cold person, a lonely figure who in one acquaintance's judgment could love humanity but not
                    men. But from the letters in this book there emerges a new Wilson, "My darling
                    Woodrow," a man of warmth and intensely human qualities. Flesh, blood, and emotion have
                    been added to the bony features, the morning coat, and the erect posture.
            The chief source of this new dimension, as well as the unique contribution of this volume, is the
                    collection of intimate letters between Wilson and his 
                    fiancée, Ellen Louise Axson. Some of this correspondence was published several years ago,
                    but here it appears in its rich, romantic entirety. These letters dominate the volume; their
                    frequency and candor record not only the sentiments of two lovers but also the daily routine of
                    their separate lives.
            Covering the period from February, 1884, to January, 1885, Volume III reveals Wilson during an
                    interesting and important year in his career. Much of the correspondence centers on his studies,
                    impressions, and professional aspirations as a graduate student at Johns Hopkins University. There
                    are shorthand lecture notes, minutes taken at meetings of the famous seminar conducted by Herbert
                    Baxter 
                        Adams
                    , and comments on professors like Richard T. Ely. An interesting topic for comparison by
                    today's graduate students is Wilson's correspondence about securing his first
                    professional position. This includes his exploration of possible openings at the University of 
                        Texas
                     and 
                        Arkansas
                     Industrial University and his salary negotiations with Bryn Mawr. Certain other
                    features of these years indicate both change and continuity in the historical profession since 1884:
                    the $500 fellowship at Johns Hopkins and the $1,200 salary offer from Bryn
                    Mawr; Wilson's complaint about "the school-boy task of cramming" (p. 379)
                    for Ph.D. examinations.
            Readers will be interested to see the genesis of Congressional Government in the
                    minutes of seminar meetings and in Wilson's correspondence with Houghton, Mifflin and
                    Company. They will follow the rumors of imminent revolution during the 1884 presidential campaign.
                    They will enjoy a seminar debate between Wilson and John Dewey on the subject of federal aid to
                    common school education. The future president made "a strenuous argument" (p. 136)
                    against it on constitutional grounds.
            These and other delights make this a fascinating volume which illuminates the life of Woodrow Wilson
                    as no biography can. It reveals the wellsprings of his ambition and energy, the close ties with his
                    father, and the "priceless gift" of his relationship with Ellen. It delights the
                    reader with handsome typography, interesting cross-references and annotations, a useful table of
                    contents, and a superior index.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Cullom Davis
         
         
            
               Democrats, Dinners, & Dollars: A History of the Democratic Party, Its
                        Dinners, Its Ritual. By Ronald F. Stinnett. With an Introduction by Hubert H. Humphrey. (
                        Ames
                    : The 
                        Iowa
                     State University Press, 1967. Pp. xvii, 310. Illustrations, appendices, notes,
                    bibliography and sources, index. $5.95.)
            Ronald Stinnett has performed a very useful service in composing this fact-filled book on Democratic
                    party dinners and the dollars their sponsors have raised for party support. Through the years to
                    come, historians should be grateful to him for bringing together so many once-fugitive
                    details—and  almost as grateful to the 
                        Iowa
                     State University Press for publishing such a handsome volume.
            In part the author has concentrated, quite properly, on the dinners themselves—their cost,
                    the edibles and potables served, special themes or emphases, and the funds flowing to party coffers
                    or creditors. The other major emphasis is on the speeches, particularly those of Presidents and
                    White House hopefuls. Welcome to the reviewer was the fresh opportunity to compare Franklin D.
                    Roosevelt's suave and at times almost nonpartisan approach with the more obviously
                    partisan, and therefore more conventional, efforts of some other headliners. From the standpoint of
                    things-then-to-come, accounts of the 
                        Jackson
                     Day Dinners of 1912, 1932, and 1960 are unusually absorbing. There are also capsules of
                    $100-a-plate dinner speeches from 1936 through 1966; selected menus, including one for a
                    repast planned on a 700-calorie basis; photographs, cartoons, and other illustrations.
            Stinnett is both a devoted Democrat and the recipient of the M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from the
                    University of 
                        Minnesota
                    . He serves as assistant to Vice President Hubert Humphrey, who contributed the foreword
                    and whom Stinnett describes in the dedication as "My Mentor, My Friend, My
                    Inspiration." It should be no surprise, therefore, that regarding his subject the author is
                    decidedly empathic. Yet a great deal of first-rate scholarship, as well as enthusiasm, is
                    represented in this work. The bibliography is impressive; twenty-three theses and dissertations are
                    listed. Stinnett not only culled newspapers, magazines, and books but personally interviewed
                    numerous officials. His discussions, in the notes, of party methods and party development are
                    particularly discerning in this reviewer's judgment. Indeed, in the long run, they may
                    prove more valuable than some of the text itself.
            Many American citizens, undertaking to introduce people from abroad to our way of life, have found it
                    especially difficult successfully to interpret political parties to foreigners. An Eastland and a
                    Humphrey in the Democracy? A Goldwater and a Javits in the G.O.P.? "Mais, monsieur, how can
                    such things be?" The Stinnett volume goes far in the direction of accounting for the cement
                    holding parties together after a fashion year after year, despite the often disparate nature of
                    those parties' human and ideological ingredients.
            
                    University of 
                            Kentucky
                        
               
                
            Holman 
                        Hamilton
                    
            
         
         
            
               Congressional Conservatism and the New Deal: The Growth of the Conservative Coalition
                        in Congress, 19331939. By James L. Patterson. (
                        Lexington
                    : University of 
                        Kentucky
                     Press, for the Organization of American Historians, 1967. Pp. ix, 369. Notes,
                    illustrations, appendix, bibliographical notes, index. $8.50.)
            The story has it that a congressman, when asked about his participation in a conservative coalition
                    of southern Democrats and Republicans, replied: 
                    "Sometimes I coalesce. Sometimes I don't." While historians have known in
                    a general way that a congressional coalition formed during 
                        Franklin
                     Roosevelt's presidency has blocked liberal programs from the Fair Deal to the
                    Great Society, they have lacked a full-scale account of its origins. Now James Patterson offers such
                    a study. He attempts to explain who the congressional conservatives were, what common
                    characteristics they shared, when they formed a coalition, and how effective their opposition to the
                    New Deal was.
            Patterson proceeds by describing the New Deal proposals that called forth opposition, the arguments
                    used against these measures, the strategy of the administration and its opponents, the reasons for
                    enactment or defeat, and the significance of all this for conservative unity. More than
                    three-fourths of the book is devoted to the years 1937-1939, and much more attention is given the
                    Senate than the House. Patterson's account is based on broad research in manuscript
                    sources, his presentation is clear and direct, and his judgments are usually sound. As a result,
                    this is an excellent acount of the reasons why various members of Congress opposed certain measures
                    sponsored by the Roosevelt administration.
            Although a few Democrats disliked the New Deal from the start and there was significant opposition to
                    the regulation of public utilities in 1935, Patterson believes that broad congressional hostility to
                    the New Deal did not develop until after 1937. Roosevelt's proposal to enlarge the Supreme
                    Court, his failure to combat the recession, and his attempt to purge the Democratic party led to an
                    erosion of his strength. At the same time, the administration's attempt to aid the urban
                    working classes offended many senators and representatives with rural constituencies. Patterson,
                    however, admits that an effective bipartisan coalition did not emerge during the 1930's. He
                    shows that opponents of the administration varied from issue to issue, that the 1938 session
                    "in no sense exposed a well-organized, monolithic conservative coalition," and
                    that even in 1939 "the bipartisan coalition failed to function at all" (p. 247,
                    31) in many cases.
            Unfortunately, the criteria the author adopts for evaluating "conservatism" are
                    exceedingly arbitrary. He presumes that any vote against Roosevelt's proposals was by
                    definition "conservative," although this was not always the case. Moreover, he
                    considers any Democratic representative "conservative" if he voted against the
                    administration on at least 25 percent of certain key roll calls; he considers any Democratic senator
                    "conservative" if he cast at least 12 percent of his votes against the
                    administration. The choice of these percentages is not explained; indeed, had the author used a
                    slightly higher percentage very few congressmen would have qualified as
                    "conservatives." But then, perhaps one might suggest that the formation of the
                    conservative coalition occurred during the war years rather than the 1930's.
            
                    Cornell University
                
            Richard Polenberg
         
         
         
            
               The Emergence of the New South, 19131945. By George 
                        Brown
                     Tindall. A History of the South, Volume X. Edited by Wendell Holmes
                    Stephenson and E. Merton Coulter. ([
                        Baton Rouge
                    ]: 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press and The Littlefield Fund for Southern History of the University
                    of 
                        Texas
                    , 1967. Pp. xv, 807. Notes, illustrations, critical essay on authorities, index.
                    $12.50.)
            The appearance of this work, the ninth volume to be published in a distinguished series, represents a
                    signal accomplishment in regional and national historiography. The Emergence of the New
                        South is a brilliant synthesis which invites comparison with C. Vann Woodward's
                    perspicacious Origins of the New South, 1877-1913 (1951), the preceding volume in
                        A History of the South. Tindall's book does not suffer in such a
                    comparison, and the University of 
                        North Carolina
                     scholar has now emerged as the historian of the recent South nonpareil. He has written
                    a model regional history, an extraordinarily impressive interpretation of the South's
                    experience during the years 1913-1945, a volume that is imaginatively conceived, gracefully written,
                    and based upon exhaustive research.
            The book is skillfully organized on the basic of twenty comprehensive and informative chapters. It
                    begins, appropriately, with politics—a discussion of the South's influential
                    role in the Wilson administration, a characterization of the progressive movement below the Potomac,
                    and an analysis of political affairs in the individual southern states. Successive chapters then
                    deal with the impact of World War I, industrial development in the 1920's, the recurrent
                    agricultural crisis, Negroes and race relations, social currents and the image of the benighted
                    South, politics in the twenties, the emergence of public services, the literary revival, and the
                    ordeal of southern labor. A chapter on the Great Depression provides a transition to the second
                    major part of the book and marks the accelerating pace of regional change. In the chapters that
                    follow the author examines the New Deal and southern agriculture, the regional economy in the
                    1930's, relief, welfare, and education, the growth of labor unions, the Negro's
                    status, regionalism and sectionalism as views of southern life, politics and the New Deal,
                    literature in the thirties and forties, and the South during World War II. A splendid
                    bibliographical essay rounds out the work.
            Tindall has produced a balanced account of political, economic, intellectual, and cultural
                    developments. He has not neglected the region's internal affairs or the existential
                    character of southern history during this period, but he has tried throughout to show the effect of
                    outside forces on the South as well as the section's essential role in the nation. He has,
                    in fact, surmounted the problem of writing a broadly conceived regional history in the absence of a
                    clearly defined spatial entity or institutional focus. At the same time, he does not exaggerate the
                    uniformity of the regional culture; he has a sharp eye for subregional, state, and local variations.
            
            Nor is this static history. It is alive and moving over time. If the analysis of certain aspects of
                    the southern experience could be extended, this weakness is attributable in large part to the
                    ambitious scope of the design and to the absence of scholarly work in some areas, particularly by
                    historians. Tindall views this eventful period in recent southern history as one possessing a good
                    deal of unity. But he advances no insistent interpretation in his portrait of the period, aside from
                    numerous themes of regional emergence and the Southerner's growing consciousness of change.
                    The South did change in many ways between 1913 and 1945, but the change was intermixed with
                    reaction, and at the end of the era the region remained more than ever an American paradox. The way
                    in which that paradox evolved during this momentous period is the burden of this illuminating
                    history.
            
                    Vanderbilt University
                
            Dewey W. Grantham, Jr.
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               Forever The Song. By Milford E. Anness. (
                  Caldwell, Idaho
               : Caxton
                    Printers, Ltd., 1967. Pp. xiv, 304. $5.45.)
            
               Stars Above America. By Milford E. Anness. (Anderson, Ind.: Commercial Service
                    Company, Warner Press, Inc., 1968. Pp. x, 206. Paperbound.)
            These two volumes indicate the versatility of Milford E. Anness, Hoosier author, judge, and
                    politician. Forever The Song is both a sequel and companion volume to Song of Metamoris. In these two novels Tecumseh is the central figure, and the impact of
                    western settlement on the tribes of the Middle West is the main concern. The tragic consequences of
                    crushing the Indians during the War of 1812 and the death of Tecumseh at the Battle of the Thames
                    are sympathetically portrayed. Stars Above America is a series of essays revealing 
                        Milford
                     Anness's sentiments and views regarding the historical development and present
                    status of the United States.
            
               
                        Illinois
                    
                    in 1818. By Solon J. Buck. Introduction by Allan Nevins. Second revised edition. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1967. Pp. xiii, 356. Notes, illustrations, appendix, bibliography, index.
                    $7.50.) Originally published in 1917 as the initial volume in 
                        Illinois
                    ' five-volume centennial history, 
                  
                            Illinois
                         in 1818, revised and reprinted, has now been reissued as a part of that
                    state's sesquicentennial observance. In his first chapters Buck describes the social,
                    economic, and political life of 
                        Illinois
                     at the close of the territorial period; his final chapters narrate the transition from
                    colonial dependence to statehood. Allan Nevins, in an introduction to the second edition, concludes
                    that Buck's work is a "remarkable 'profile of emergent 
                        Illinois
                    '" (p. x). Out of print for several years, the book certainly deserved
                    to be made available again, and the 
                        Illinois
                     Sesquicentennial Commission deserves commendation for including it in its program of
                    historical publications. Lorna Lutes Sylvester, Indiana University.
            
               Some Founding Papers of the University of 
                            Illinois
                        
               . Compiled by Richard A. Hatch. Introduction by David D. Henry. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1967. Pp. 139. Notes. $3.50.) The papers and documents presented in
                    this volume were published in connection with the recently completed centennial observance of the
                    University of 
                        Illinois
                    . They include various contemporary addresses and related items which disclose much
                    about the underlying motives and central ideas of some of the important founders or fathers of the
                    University of 
                        Illinois
                    . This modest volume merits a careful reading by citizens interested in becoming better
                    informed about the development of higher education in the United States.
            
               
                  
                            Kentucky
                         in Retrospect: Noteworthy Personages and Events in 
                            Kentucky
                         History, 1792-1967. By G. Glenn Clift. 1967 edition. (
                        Frankfort
                    : The 
                        Kentucky
                     Historical Society, 1967. Pp. xvi, 227. Illustrations. $7.50.) The  main portion of this volume, issued as a part of 
                        Kentucky
                    's 175th anniversary of statehood in 1967, is a chronological listing of
                    noteworthy dates and events in 
                        Kentucky
                    's history, 1673-1967. Also included are rosters of delegates to 
                        Kentucky
                    's early constitutional conventions, a roster of 
                        Kentucky
                     state officials as of 1967, and information concerning early 
                        Kentucky
                     "stations" and persons connected with them. This publication is
                    largely based on a similar volume which appeared in 1942 except for material added for the last
                    quarter century.
            
               The Architecture of 
                            Wisconsin
                        
               . By Richard W. E. Perrin. (
                        Madison
                    : The State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , 1967. Pp. vii, 175. Illustrations, notes, index. $7.50.) Prompted by
                    Wisconsin's historically significant architectural heritage and by the fact that many of
                    the state's old buildings are rapidly disappearing, the 
                  
                            Wisconsin
                         Magazine of History recently published a series of essays on the architecture
                    of the state. In a somewhat different format these essays have now appeared in book form. A study in
                    architectual and historical appreciation The Architecture of 
                            Wisconsin
                        
                discusses the typical as well as the unique in 
                        Wisconsin
                     architecture from the mid-nineteenth century to Frank Lloyd Wright. The work is filled
                    with fascinating illustrations, and it is hoped that they and Perrin's text will stimulate 
                        Wisconsin
                     citizens to preserve their unique heritage. Lorna Lutes Sylvester, Indiana
                        University.
            
               Encyclopedia of the American Revolution. By Mark Mayo Boatner III. (
                        New York
                    : David McKay Company, Inc., 1966. Pp. xviii, 1287. Maps, bibliography and short title
                    index, index of maps. $17.50.) This comprehensive reference work includes a surprising
                    amount of detail concerning men, events, and developments associated with the American Revolution.
                    Its value is augmented by frequent indication of sources relied upon in preparation of the entries
                    and by the inclusion of a number of informative maps.
            
               Broadax and Bayonet: The Role of the United States Army in the Development of the
                        Northwest, 1815–1860. By Francis Paul Prucha. Reprint. (
                        Lincoln
                    : University of 
                        Nebraska
                     Press, 1967. Pp. xii, 263. Map, notes, illustrations, bibliography, index. Paperbound,
                    $1.95.) Father Prucha has established himself as a very competent historian regarding
                    various aspects of military and Indian history. This reprint makes available in popular format a
                    recent and significant study of the part played by the army of the United States in the upper
                        Mississippi Valley between the War of 1812 and the outbreak of the Civil
                    War. Not military history in the usual sense, Prucha's account centers on problems involved
                    in establishing and maintaining military posts and their impact on the development of
                    transportation, science, and pioneer beginnings generally, both economic and cultural.
            
               History of the United States of America during the Administrations of 
                            Jefferson
                         and 
                            Madison
                        
               . By Henry Adams. Abridged and edited by Ernest Samuels. [Classic
                        American Historians. Edited by Paul M. Angle.] (
                        Chicago
                    : The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1967. Pp. xx, 425. Illustration, maps, bibliographical note, index.
                    $8.50.)
            
            
               The History of the Conquest of Mexico. By William H. Prescott. Abridged and edited
                    by G. Harvey Gardiner. [Classic American Historians. Edited by Paul M. Angle.] (
                        Chicago
                    : The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1966. Pp. xxviii, 413. Notes, illustration, maps, bibliographical note, index.
                    $8.50.)
            
               A History of American Literature, 1607–1783. By Moses Coit Tyler.
                    Abridged and edited by Archie H. Jones. [Classic American Historians. Edited by
                    Paul M. Angle.] (
                        Chicago
                    : The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1967. Pp. xxii, 357. Notes, illustration, bibliographical note, index.
                    $8.50.)
            These three volumes are abridgements of much longer studies which appeared during the nineteenth
                    century. Recent scholarship has modified the presentation and conclusions of these classical
                    accounts, but they yet have much worth. They represent a period in which historical writing had not
                    become segregated from the mainstream of literature. All three volumes are well worth reading,
                    either in their abridged or complete form. In this presidential election year in which political
                    division and uncertainty, regarding both domestic and foreign problems, present the American
                    electorate with agonizing and crucial decisions, 
                        Henry
                        Adams
                    ' work affords excellent reading for persons seeking perspectives regarding the
                    domestic and foreign relations of the United States in another unusually difficult era.
            
               A Pictorial History of the Civil War Years. By Paul M. Angle. (
                        Garden City
                    : Doubleday & Company, Inc., 1967. Pp. 242. Maps, illustrations, index.
                    $6.95.) Paul Angle's concise and informative account of the Civil War years
                    combined with effective use of more than three hundred and fifty illustrations makes this a very
                    informative and interesting volume.
            
               Civil War Books: A Critical Bibliography. Volume I. Edited by Allan Nevins, James
                    I. Robertson, Jr., and Bell I. Wiley. (
                        Baton Rouge
                    : 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press, for the U.S. Civil War Centennial Commission, 1967. Pp. ix,
                    278. $11.50.) This annotated bibliography resulted from the work of the United States
                    Civil War Centennial Commission. The volume at hand concentrates mainly upon military aspects of the
                    war, Confederate as well as 
                        Union
                    . Contributing specialists have provided critical annotations of relevant books and
                    pamphlets. Articles, dissertations and theses, and manuscript material have not been included. The
                    bibliography presented here should be useful to general readers, Civil War buffs, and scholars
                    alike. Moreover, though it will doubtless attract less popular attention than did battlefield
                    re-enactments during the Civil War Centennial observance, it is decidedly in better taste and more
                    appropriate than were such re-enactments.
            
               The Age of Civil War and Reconstruction, 1830–1900: A Book
                        of Interpretative Essays. Edited by Charles Crowe. (Homewood, Ill.: The Dorsey Press, 1966.
                    Pp. x, 479. Bibliography, suggested readings, notes.) As the sub-title indicates, this is a book of
                    interpretative essays concerning the Civil War and Reconstruction era. The emphasis is more on
                    recent than on earlier interpretations and, as frankly indicated by Editor Crowe in the Preface,  the volume reflects "the interplay of present
                    sensibilities and past events…." In fact, it is quite possible that such
                    emphasis has been overplayed.
            
               American Historical Glass: Historical Association Adds Distinction to Glassware. By
                    Bessie M. Lindsey. (Rutland, Vt.: Charles E. Tuttle Co., Publishers, 1967. Pp. xxviii, 541.
                    Illustrations, index. $10.00.) Many and varied books have been written about people,
                    places, and events in American history; but few, if any, are like this work by Bessie M. Lindsey.
                        American Historical Glass traces the history of the United States in an
                    unusual way: by following the glassware which has been produced to commemorate the
                    country's famous people, places, and happenings. The book will be interesting to students
                    of American history, but its primary contribution will be to those persons interested in American
                    glassware. The work is filled not only with descriptions of the commemorative pieces but also with
                    hundreds of black and white photographic reproductions of many of them. Hence it is an invaluable
                    reference book for the collector. C. 
                            Wayne
                         Lutes, Dyer Junior High School, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               .
            
               The American Presidents. By David C. Whitney. (
                        Garden City
                    , N.Y.: Doubleday & Company, Inc., 1967. Pp. x, 372. Illustrations, appendix,
                    index. $5.95.) Thirty-five men have occupied the office of President of the United States
                    from George 
                        Washington
                     to Lyndon Baines 
                        Johnson
                    , the present incumbent. This volume gives a popular account of the times in which these
                    men lived and served as well as concise biographical information regarding them.
            
               Supplement to the List of National Archives Microfilm Publications, 1966. (
                        Washington
                    : The National Archives, 1967. Pp. vi, 17. Appendix, index.) This supplemental listing
                    of items from the national archives available on microfilm offers continuing evidence of the
                    substantial volume of such material which has been microfilmed by the federal government over the
                    last quarter century.
            Other Pamphlets Received:
            The booklets listed below are especially useful to teachers because they offer helpful suggestions
                    and evaluations about books and articles on important facets of American history. They can also be
                    used to considerable advantage by the "general reader" who wishes to become better
                    informed about American history. Items 1-2 are published by the Service Center for Teachers of
                    History, American Historical Association, 400 A Street, S.E. 
                        Washington
                    , D.C. 20003; items 3-6 are a part of The Berkeley Series in American
                        History, published by Rand McNally and Company, 
                  Chicago, Illinois
               .
            
               The Reappraisal of the American Revolution in Recent Historical Literature. By Jack
                    P. Greene. [Publication Number 68.] (
                        Baltimore
                    : Waverly Press, Inc., 1967. Pp. 82. Notes, references. Paperbound.)
            
            
               Writings on World War II. By Louis Morton. [Publications Number
                    66.} (
                        Baltimore
                    : Waverly Press, Inc., 1967. Pp. iv, 54. Notes, selected readings. Paperbound.)
            
               The Paxton Riots and The Frontier Theory. Edited by Wilbur R. Jacobs. [The Berkeley Series in American History. Edited by Charles Sellers.] (
                        Chicago
                    : Rand McNally & Company, 1967. Pp. 51. Suggested readings. Paperbound.)
            
               The Jacksonians and the Money Power, 1829–1840. Edited by Frank Otto
                    Gatell. [The Berkeley Series in American History. Edited by Charles Sellers.] (
                        Chicago
                    : Rand McNally & Company, 1967. Pp. 59. Suggested readings. Paperbound.)
            
               Isolationism and Interventionism, 1932–1941. Edited by Paul Sothe Holbo.
                        [The Berkeley Series in American History. Edited by Charles Sellers.] (
                        Chicago
                    : Rand McNally & Company, 1967. Pp. 60. Suggested readings. Paperbound.)
            
               The Truman-Mac Arthur Controversy. Edited by Richard Lowitt. [The
                        Berkeley Series in American History. Edited by Charles Sellers.] (
                        Chicago
                    : Rand McNally & Company, 1967. Pp. 58. Suggested readings. Paperbound.)
         
      
      
         
      
   
