
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 084, Issue 3, pages 217-315. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:084+issue:3+year:1988&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            An Old Wound Finally Healed: 
                        Vincennes
                     University'S Struggle for Survival
            
                    Matthew E. Welsh
                    *
                
            AUTHOR'S NOTE
            In the 1955 session of the Indiana General Assembly, 
                        Vincennes
                     University, situated in my Senate district, asked that the state double its support to
                    the school on a continuing and predictable basis. The university was then receiving public funds by
                    way of a 
                        Knox County
                     property tax, which the state matched, but the money thus generated was not nearly
                    enough to meet the school'S needs. I knew that additional funds would not be easily come by
                    unless solid reasons were presented and the interest and support of the legislative leadership
                    obtained. To this end I put together the bits and pieces of the school'S history that I had
                    learned during my many years as a trustee, focusing upon the bitter political struggle that had
                    almost destroyed the school and fashioning the story into a political drama that I hoped would
                    command the sympathetic attention of the legislators. What follows is that story and the
                    legislature'S reaction to it. The article was given as a paper before the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Literary Club on October 6, 1986, and an abbreviated version was included in the 1978
                    yearbook of the Society of Indiana Pioneers.
            After William Henry Harrison, Indiana'S first territorial governor, came to 
                        Vincennes
                    , the capital of the territory, he caused to be organized in 1801 Jefferson Academy for
                    instruction of the children 
                  
                     * Matthew E. Welsh, a Democrat, served in the Indiana House
                            as a representative from 
                                Knox County
                             during the 1941 and 1943 sessions. In 1955 he was elected to the Indiana Senate
                            from 
                                Knox
                             and 
                                Daviess
                             counties and served in that capacity until August, 1960. Welsh was governor of
                            Indiana from 1961 to 1965. He has been a member of the 
                                Vincennes
                             University Board of Trustees since 1943.
               
                     of the settlers and the Indians of the area. This was the first
                    educational institution in Indiana Territory, which consisted of what are now the states of Indiana,
                            
                  Michigan, Illinois, Wisconsin
               , and a
                    portion of 
                        Minnesota
                    ; and it is thought to be the second oldest such institution west of the Alleghenies,
                    preceded only by Transylvania College in 
                        Kentucky
                    , which was founded in 1780.1
            
            In December of that same year, 1801, Harrison and five other trustees of Jefferson Academy petitioned
                    the 
                        United States
                     Congress for a donation of land to be used for the development of an
                    "Institution for the Education of Youth" similar to the one that had been granted
                    for an "institution on the 
                        Ohio
                     Purchase on the Muskingum."2 The petition was referred to
                    a three-man committee for consideration but apparently occasioned no congressional action. In
                    December, 1802, however, a "general convention of the [Indiana] Territory," called
                    and chaired by Harrison as governor, included in its list of "representations to the
                    Congress of the 
                        United States
                    " a request for federal assistance for education.3 In
                    response to this petition of 1802 Congress in 1804 adopted an act for survey and disposal of public
                    lands and provided that in each of the three land districts established in Indiana Territory (namely
                    at 
                  Detroit, Vincennes
               , and 
                        Kaskaskia
                    ) one entire township was to be reserved for a seminary of learning, the township to be
                    designated by the secretary of the treasury.4 Thus Harrison and his colleagues
                    were successful in obtaining a land grant as an endowment for the new institution of learning. The
                    grant consisted of a six-mile-square congressional township, which was set aside by Secretary of the
                    Treasury Albert Gallatin on October 10, 1806, comprising 23,040 acres located at Township 2 South,
                    Range 11 West, which is now known as Patoka Township of 
                        Gibson County
                    .5
            
            
               
                  1 E. Bierhaus & Sons, a wholesale grocery firm in 
                            Vincennes
                        , erected a large highway sign at the edge of town that proclaimed 
                            Vincennes
                         University to be "the oldest college west of the Alleghenies."
                        When advised of Transylvania'S earlier founding date, the company salvaged its sign by
                        adding in small letters, "and north of the 
                            Ohio
                        ."
               
                  2 This institution is today 
                            Ohio
                         University at 
                     Athens, Ohio
                  , which traces its origin back to the
                        Ordinance of 1787 and the 
                            Ohio
                         Company. Earlier plans for the establishment of this school at Marietta on the
                        Muskingum River gave way to the eventual site in the center of the 
                            Ohio
                         Company land grant. 
                            Ohio
                         University was incorporated in 1804. See William E. Peters, Legal
                            History of the 
                                Ohio
                             University, 
                        Athens, Ohio
                     
                   … (
                            Cincinnati
                        , 1910), 86-88, passim. The original petition for funds for an
                        educational institution at 
                            Vincennes
                         in Indiana Territory is on file in the National Archives, 
                            Washington
                        , D.C.
               
                  3 Logan Esarey, ed., Messages and Letters of William Henry
                            Harrison: Vol. I, 1800-1811 (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol.
                        VII; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1922), 64.
               
                  4
                        Annals of Congress, 7 Cong., 1 sess., p. 497; ibid., 8
                        Cong., 1 sess., Appendix, pp. 1285-93.
               
                  5 Albert Gallatin to John Badollet, October 10, 1806, in The
                            Territorial Papers of the 
                                United States
                            : Vol. VII, The Territory of Indiana, 1800-1810, ed.
                        Clarence E. Carter (
                            Washington
                        , D.C., 1939), 394-95.
            
            
            
               WILLIAM HENRY HARRISON
               
               Courtesy Byron H Lewis Historical Library. 
                            Vincennes
                         University
            
            
            Shortly thereafter, on November 29, 1806, the territorial legislature incorporated "the 
                        Vincennes
                     University"—not a college or a seminary but a
                    "university." The newly chartered school, which took over the activities of
                    Jefferson Academy, was to receive the township of land already set aside by Gallatin.6 The preamble of the chartering act indicates that the legislature, struggling to
                    establish an orderly society in the wilderness, had high hopes for the new institution. It reads:
                        
                        
                            AN ACT to Incorporate an University in
                                the Indiana Territory.
                        
                        WHEREAS the independence, happiness and energy of every republic depends (under the influence
                            of the destinies of Heaven) upon the wisdom, virtue, tallents and energy, of its citizens
                            and rulers.
                        And whereas, science, literature, and the liberal arts, contribute in an eminent degree, to
                            improve those qualities and acquirements.
                        And whereas, learning hath ever been found the ablest advocate of genuine liberty, the best
                            supporter of rational religion, and the source of the only solid and imperishable glory,
                            which nations can acquire.
                        And forasmuch, as literature, and philosophy, furnish the most useful and pleasing
                            occupations, improveing and varying the enjoyments of prosperity, affording relief under the
                            pressure of misfortune, and hope and consolation in the hour of death. And considering that
                            in a commonwealth, where the humblest citizen may be elected to the highest public office,
                            and where the Heaven born prerogative of the right to elect, and to reject, is retained, and
                            secured to the citizens, the knowledge which is requisite for a magistrate and elector,
                            should be widely diffused.
                        1st. Be it therefore enacted by the Legislative Council and House of Representatives, That an
                            University be, and is hereby instituted and incorporated within this Territory, to be called
                            and known by the name, or style of the "
                                Vincennes
                             University"… .7
                  
                    
            
            Among the powers given to the trustees of 
                        Vincennes
                     University by the 1806 act of the territorial legislature was the authority to sell
                    4,000 acres of the 23,040-acre township grant made by Congress "for the use and support of
                    the University … for the purpose of putting into immediate operation the said institution
                    … and to lease or rent the remaining part of said township, to the best advantage, for
                    the use of said public school, or University."8 It should be noted that
                    the act contained no specific language formally conveying legal title of the township to the
                    university, and apparently nothing in the nature of a deed or patent was ever placed on record.
                    Certainly, however, the trustees could reasonably assume that the territorial government by such
                    language had released to the 
                  
                     6 Francis S. Philbrick, ed., The Laws of Indiana
                                Territory, 1801-1809 (Collections of the 
                                    Illinois
                                 State Historical Library, Vol. XXI; 
                                Springfield
                            , 1930), 178-84. 
                                Vincennes
                             University is thought to be the thirty-ninth oldest college in the 
                                United States
                             and, along with Transylvania, shares the distinction of being founded by a
                            future president of the 
                                United States
                            . Thomas Jefferson was governor of 
                                Virginia
                             in 1780 when Transylvania was chartered. The University of 
                                Virginia
                             was later founded by Jefferson in 1820, after he left office as president of
                            the 
                                United States
                            .
                  
                     7 Quoted from ibid., 178.
                  
                     8 Quoted from ibid., 179.
               
                     university any claim it had to this grant. Also granted by the
                    act was the authority to conduct a lottery as a means of raising funds, and a lottery to raise six
                    thousand dollars was in fact authorized by the university'S Board of Trustees in 1806. It
                    was a financial disaster! The tickets did not sell even when offered on credit. The proceeds
                    received were refunded, and the university had to pay the expenses incurred.9
            
            A word needs to be said here about the men who served on the Board of Trustees of 
                        Vincennes
                     University throughout the years. Many were among the most prominent citizens of the
                    territory and state. One indication of their prominence is the fact that a number of Indiana
                    counties were named after board members; viz., (Henry) 
                        Vanderburgh
                    , (John) Gibson, (Toussaint) Dubois, (Benjamin) Parke, (Francis) Vigo, (William Henry)
                    Harrison, etc. Other influential trustees were Waller Taylor, one of Indiana'S first two 
                        United States
                     senators; John Rice Jones, first attorney general of Indiana Territory; General 
                        Washington
                     Johnston, lawyer and founder of Freemasonry in Indiana Territory; and John Badollet,
                    first register of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Land Office. Harrison, who was a member of the 
                        Virginia
                     gentry and who had attended Hampden-Sydney College and briefly studied medicine under
                    the famous Dr. Benjamin Rush of 
                        Philadelphia
                    , was elected chairman of the board on December 6, 1806; he was then thirty-three years
                        old.10 At the meeting of the board on August 17, 1807, Jonathan Jennings, a
                    politically ambitious young man, was appointed clerk pro tem to fill a vacancy created by the
                    resignation of General 
                        Washington
                     Johnston. At the same meeting the resignation of Harrison, who had been president of
                    the board, was reaffirmed, Harrison having submitted his resignation at the meeting of August 7,
                    1807. On August 29, 1807, the twenty-three-year-old Jennings was elected permanent clerk, and on
                    September 12 Harrison was reelected a member of the board and was also reelected president.11
            
            At a stated meeting of the Board of Trustees called April 4, 1808, Harrison presiding, a motion was
                    adopted that a committee be appointed to inquire into the conduct of Jennings as clerk of the Board
                    of Trustees. Obviously something was seriously amiss! My own supposition is that Harrison and his
                    friends on the board 
                  
                     9 Minutes of December 6, 15, 1806, January 2, September 5, 12, 1807,
                            in "Minutes of the Board of Trustees for 
                                Vincennes
                             University," ed. Robert Constantine, Indiana Magazine of
                                History, LIV (December, 1958). 321-22, 323, 324, 329, 362-63, 363-64; minutes of
                            October 16, 1807, in ibid., LV (September, 1959), 250-51.
                  
                     10 Minutes of December 6, 1806, in ibid., LIV
                            (December, 1958), 320. See also minutes of succeeding meetings and notes thereto in ibid.
                  
                  
                     11 Minutes of August 7, 17, 29, September 12, 1807, in ibid., 354, 355, 356, 358, 364. See also Dorothy Riker, "Jonathan
                            Jennings," Indiana Magazine of History, XXVIII (December, 1932),
                            226-27.
               
                     wanted an investigation of the lottery12 as
                    well as an investigation of a pamphlet dealing with proceedings of the board, which Jennings, as
                    clerk, had certified. In a further statement concerning board proceedings, also certified by
                    Jennings, it was alleged that, among other things, there was "political persecution of
                    Jennings at the April 4th meeting of the Trustees" and that a resolution was introduced and
                    seconded to expel Jennings for providing the certification for the pamphlet. There is no record of
                    such a resolution in the available minutes of the board.13 Subsequently, on
                    November 21, 1808, the trustees accepted the resignation of Jennings, who had moved to 
                        Clark County
                    .14 It is not difficult to visualize the chill that enveloped the
                    board nor the affront that Jennings felt.
            Dorothy L. Riker, a Jennings biographer, concludes that the controversy involving Jennings and the 
                        Vincennes
                     University Board of Trustees had long-range significance "in view of the later
                    hostility of Jennings to Harrison." Riker suggests, in fact, that "the later
                    location of the state seminary at 
                        Bloomington
                     instead of at 
                        Vincennes
                     may have resulted from this animosity."15 Whether or not
                    this supposition is true, from 1807-1808 on, a bitter feud existed between two of the most
                    influential and politically powerful men in Indiana Territory—namely Harrison, the
                    proslavery eastern aristocrat, and Jennings, the aspiring antislavery frontier
                    politician—and their conflict had far-reaching effects.
            In the territorial election of April 3, 1809, Jennings offered himself as the candidate of the
                    antislavery faction for the position of territorial delegate to the 
                        United States
                     Congress. He was opposed by Thomas 
                        Randolph
                    , who was the proslavery, Harrison candidate, and by John Johnson, who was rather
                    proslavery but anti-Harrison. It was a bitter campaign. To the many residents who disliked Harrison, 
                        Randolph
                     "was anathema—aristocratic, proslavery, and above all a friend of
                    the Governor!" When the votes of the four counties in the territory (
                        Knox
                    , Clark, 
                        Dearborn
                    , and Harrison) were counted, Jennings had 428, 
                        Randolph
                     402, and Johnson 81.16 Passions continued to run high even after
                    the election. The 
                  
                     12 Minutes of April 4, 1808, in "Minutes of the Board of
                            Trustees for 
                                Vincennes
                             University," LV, 258. In his biographical sketch of Jonathan Jennings,
                            Logan Esarey comments that Jennings'S sudden departure from 
                                Vincennes
                            , where he was employed in the land ofice and by the legislature in a
                            secretarial position, "was thought to be due to a misunderstanding concerning
                            university funds." Logan Esarey, ed., Messages and Papers of Jonathan
                                Jennings, Ratliff Boon, and William Hendricks, 1816-1825 (Indiana Historical
                                Collections, Vol. XII; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1924), 27.
                  
                     13 Riker, "Jonathan Jennings," 227.
                  
                     14 Minutes of November 21, 1808, in "Minutes of the Board of
                            Trustees for 
                                Vincennes
                             University," LV, 263.
                  
                     15 Riker, "Jonathan Jennings," 227.
                  
                     16 John D. Barnhart and Dorothy L. Riker, Indiana to
                                1816: The Colonial Period (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1971), 357-59, quotation p. 357. Shortly after the election, while the results
                            were still in doubt, 
                                Randolph
                             challenged the author of an uncomplimentary letter in the 
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Western Sun to a duel, whereupon the writer, a 
                                Quaker
                            , swore out a warrant against 
                                Randolph
                             and obtained an order for a peace bond from Judge Henry 
                                Vanderburgh
                            . Ibid., 357; Jacob Piatt Dunn, Indiana: A
                                Redemption from Slavery (
                                Boston
                            , 1888), 399-400.
               
                    
                    
                  JONATHAN JENNINGS
                  
                  Portrait of Jonathan Jennings by Theodore C. Stele as copied from Jennings
                            portrait by James Forbes. Courtesy Indiana Historical Bureau.
               
                     Harrison faction was bitter and let no opportunity pass without
                    expressing their sentiments. At the 4th of July celebration near 
                        Vincennes
                     shortly after the election, with Harrison presiding, the following toast was proposed
                    and drunk: "Jonathan Jennings—the semblance of a delegate—his want of
                    abilities the only safety of the people—Three Groans!"17
            
            
               
                        Randolph
                     announced his intention to contest the election results, alleging irregularities. Both
                    Jennings and 
                        Randolph
                     made the trip to 
                        Washington
                     for the opening of Congress, where Jennings produced his certificate of election signed
                    by John Gibson, secretary of Indiana Territory, and was seated pending an examination of his
                    credentials by the House committee on elections, to which 
                        Randolph
                    'S petition was also referred. The committee reported back to the House that in
                    its opinion the entire election was illegal and that Jennings'S seat should be vacated.
                    After two days' debate the House, somewhat unusually, refused to accept the report, and
                    Jennings was permitted to retain his seat.18 This was not to be the last
                    election contested in the 
                        United States
                     Congress by a representative from Indiana!
            Jennings became active in Congress as a disseminator of gossip and charges unfavorable to
                    Indiana'S territorial governor. He repeatedly introduced resolutions inimical to Harrison
                    and, bent upon "laying the groundwork for an impeachment," went so far as to lay
                    before President James 
                        Madison
                     documents accusing the governor of bribery and collusion in land sales.19 No love was lost between these two! Continuing to harass Harrison at every opportunity,
                    Jennings aggressively promoted the admission of Indiana to the Union as the best way to get rid of
                    the territorial governor. When this event did occur in 1816, Jennings became a candidate for
                    governor of the new state and soundly trounced Thomas B. Posey, the candidate supported by Harrison
                    and the other prominent landholders of the area. The vote was 5,211 to 3,936—not a
                    landslide, but decisive. The Jennings forces were in charge.20
            
            In 1816 the Enabling Act, by which Congress authorized the formation of a constitution and state
                    government for Indiana, granted the state one entire township of public land "in addition
                    to 
                  
                     17
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Western Sun, July 8, 1809, quoted in Dunn, Indiana, 400.
                            Dunn further noted that over the next ten years there was never a respectful allusion to
                            Jennings in the Western Sun.
                  
                  
                     18 Barnhart and Riker, Indiana to 1816, 359.
                  
                     19 Freeman Cleaves, Old 
                                    Tippecanoe
                                : William Henry Harrison and His Time (
                                New York
                            , 1939), 77, 106; see also John D. Barnhart and Donald F. Carmony, Indiana: From Frontier to Industrial Commonwealth (1954; reprint, 2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1979), I, 117-18; Jonathan Jennings to Samuel Manwarring, January 22, 1811, in
                                Messages and Letters of William Henry Harrison, I, 501-503; Riker,
                            "Jonathan Jennings," 231.
                  
                     20 Barnhart and Carmony, Indiana, I, 149-50,
                        183.
               
                     the one heretofore reserved for that purpose ... for the use of
                    a seminary of learning … ."21 The township selected was more
                    centrally located in what was to become 
                        Monroe County
                     than was 
                        Vincennes
                    , which was situated on the western boundary of the new state.22
                    Jennings'S animosity toward Harrison, as well as his humiliating experience at 
                        Vincennes
                     University, undoubtedly left him with neither fond memories of that institution nor
                    desire to support it. In 1819, as governor, he proposed locating the new seminary of learning in or
                    near the township chosen for its support and signed legislation adopted January 20, 1820,
                    establishing a Board of Trustees for a state seminary at 
                        Bloomington
                    , Perry Township, 
                        Monroe County
                    .23 From that point on, the school at 
                        Bloomington
                     was to be Indiana'S state university, notwithstanding the fact that 
                        Vincennes
                     University had been recognized by a grant of public lands from the 
                        United States
                     Congress in 1806.
            In my judgment it was not a mere coincidence, but rather the next step in a well-organized program,
                    that the legislature two days later, on January 22, 1820, "Appointed a superintendent for
                    the Seminary Township in 
                        Gibson County
                     … with full power and authority to rent [italics added] ... all the improved
                    lands in said Township, which are now under control of the State of Indiana …
                        ."24 Still later, in 1827, the General Assembly passed an act
                    appointing a commissioner to sell in the name of the state of Indiana the
                    congressional township that had originally been granted to 
                        Vincennes
                     University by Congress. The township was cut up into farms and sold to private owners.
                    The proceeds of the sales went to a trust fund, the income from which was to serve as an endowment
                    for the institution now known as Indiana University,25
                    
                        Vincennes
                     University no longer was an institution supported by public funds and was left to
                    survive in any way it could.26
            
            
               
                  21
                        Annals of Congress, 12 Cong., 1 sess., pp. 1841-44.
               
                  22 Thomas D. Clark, Indiana University, Midwestern
                        Pioneer: Vol. 1, The Early Years (
                            Bloomington
                        , 1970), 21.
               
                  23 Governor'S annual message to the legislature, December 7,
                        1819, in Messages and Papers of Jonathan Jennings, Ratliff Boon, and William
                            Hendricks, 78; Indiana, Laws (1820), 32-34.
               
                  24 Indiana, Laws (1820), 160.
               
                  25 Indiana, Laws (1827), 95.
               
                  26 It should be noted that from at least as early as 1812 through the next
                        two decades the 
                            Vincennes
                         University Board of Trustees met erratically if at all. Vacancies on the board were
                        frequently not filled. In fact, it is questionable that a board even existed between 1824 and
                        1828. In 1824 the Indiana General Assembly "adopted" the 
                            Knox County
                         Seminary as the institution of higher learning in 
                            Vincennes
                        , and the university as such ceased to exist until it was
                        rechartered by the legislature in 1838. Robert Constantine, ed., "Minutes of the Board
                        of Trustees for 
                            Vincennes
                         University (April 6, 1812-April 24, 1824)," Indiana Magazine
                            of History, LVII (December, 1961), 312-14; Constantine, ed., "Minutes of the
                        Board of Trustees for 
                            Vincennes
                         University (October 3, 1818-July 4, 1842)," Ibid., LIX
                        (December, 1963), 323-24; Clark, Indiana University, 190.
            
            
            Survive it did, but just barely. Ultimately, friends of the university rallied to its support.
                    Because failure to fill vacancies on the Board of Trustees, together with the infrequent meetings of
                    the board, had made the continued existence of the university subject to challenge, the legislature
                    in 1838 was prevailed upon to fill the existing vacancies, thereby removing argument about the
                    institution'S status.27 Over the next few years Samuel Judah, a
                    prominent attorney in 
                        Vincennes
                    , initiated a harassment program of filing suits against individuals and other claimants
                    challenging their titles to the 
                        Gibson County
                     lands that had been purchased from the state. Judah and Attorney George R. Gibson, who
                    was on the 
                        Vincennes
                     University Board of Trustees, prepared a detailed abstract and history of the
                    institution, and the university obtained a preliminary, formal opinion, dated September 11, 1843,
                    from one of the most prominent legal scholars of that time, Chancellor James 
                        Kent
                     of 
                        New York
                    . 
                        Kent
                     held that as a result of the confiscation of the endowment granted to 
                        Vincennes
                     University, the institution was entitled to look to the state for compensation. The
                    exact language from the concluding sentence of his opinion read, "... I am of the opinion
                    that the legislature of Indiana is bound by the most imperious obligations of justice and honor to
                    indemnify the university for the unconstitutional arrest and detention of their
                        property."28
                    
                        Kent
                     was less certain, however, that the university would be successful in its suits against
                    individual purchasers or claimants of the 
                        Gibson County
                     lands. In part because of the tremendous outcry resulting from these suits and in part
                    because of 
                        Kent
                    'S opinion, 
                        Vincennes
                     University in 1845 agreed to drop them, and the legislature, in 1846, agreed that the
                    state should assume responsibility, granting permission for the trustees of 
                        Vincennes
                     University to bring an action in chancery in 
                        Marion County
                     Circuit Court at 
                        Indianapolis
                     against the state to settle the question of liability.29
            
            Suit for an accounting was accordingly initiated by 
                        Vincennes
                     University against the state of Indiana. The 
                        Marion
                     Circuit Court rendered a decree in favor of the university, requiring the state to pay
                    $30,099.96, this sum being the proceeds of a portion of the land in the congressional
                    township sold by authority of several acts of the legislature, the money having been paid into the
                    state treasury for the use of Indiana University at 
                        Bloomington
                    . The state appealed, and the Indiana Supreme Court reversed, holding that the 1804 act
                    of Congress " ‘making provision for disposal of the public lands in the Indiana
                    territory …' conferred no rights on the trustees 
                  
                     27 Indiana, Laws (1838), 281.
                  
                     28
                            Trustees for the 
                                    Vincennes
                                 University v. State of Indiana: Mr. Judah'S Brief for
                                Complainants, and the Opinion of Chancellor 
                                    Kent
                                
                      (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1847), 24. See also Clark, Indiana University, 190-91.
                  
                     29 Clark, Indiana University, 191-92; Indiana, Laws
                            (1846), 233-34.
               
                     of the 
                        Vincennes
                     University to the township of land, reserved by that act for the use of a seminary of
                    learning, and which was subsequently located in 
                        Gibson County
                    . They [the university trustees] were not then in existence as a
                        corporation."30
            
            The university appealed to the 
                        United States
                     Supreme Court, and the case of Board of Trustees of 
                            Vincennes
                         University v. The State of Indiana was argued in the December term, 1852. The
                    Supreme Court found that when the township was designated by Secretary of the Treasury Gallatin and
                    the university then chartered, title vested in the university; thus, title to the 
                        Gibson County
                     lands had never been vested in the state. Consequently, Indiana had no power of sale.
                    In effect, the court held that the state had wrongfully taken the lands of 
                        Vincennes
                     University, and they quoted from the famous Dartmouth College v.
                    Woodward decision of 1819.31
            
            The university now had a judgment against the state of Indiana, but collecting on
                    that judgment was a different matter altogether! Over a period of time, after protracted
                    negotiations, the university received a series of payments from the state, ultimately aggregating
                    over $200,000. The details of these payments are interesting. In 1854 the Indiana Supreme
                    Court, on remand from the 
                        United States
                     Supreme Court, ordered a judgment decree against the state in favor of 
                        Vincennes
                     University. The legislature then directed the auditor and treasurer of state to
                    ascertain the amount due 
                        Vincennes
                     University and to issue bonds of the state in that amount. The treasurer and auditor,
                    however, unexpectedly ordered discharge of the judgment "out of a fund in the charge of the
                    State, and which is designated in the State Treasury as the University
                    Fund," i.e., they ordered payment of the claim out of the endowment fund of Indiana
                    University created in part from the proceeds received by the state from the sale of the 
                        Gibson County
                     lands taken from 
                        Vincennes
                     University but composed largely of proceeds from sale of the Perry Township lands in 
                        Monroe County
                    . This decision was made notwithstanding the fact that Indiana University had never been
                    a party to any of this litigation!32
            
            This order in turn compelled Indiana University—which had had a "great
                    fire" on April 9, 1854, and was in desperate need of funds— 
                  
                     30
                            State of Indiana v. Trustees of the Indiana University, 2 Indiana Reports
                            293 (1850).
                  
                     31
                            Board of Trustees of 
                                    Vincennes
                                 University v. The State of Indiana, 14 Howard 268 (1852). The state
                            argued, among other things, (a) that the 1804 act of Congress reserving a congressional
                            township for use of a seminary of learning failed as a grant since there was no seminary
                            corporation then in existence; (b) that the act of 1816 admitting Indiana to the union gave
                            the state full authority to deal with its lands; (c) that the university charter had expired
                            in 1822 through failure to elect trustees; (d) the statute of limitations as well as adverse
                            possession barred a recovery. See also Clark, Indiana University, 192.
                  
                     32
                            The State v. Trustees of the 
                                    Vincennes
                                 University, 5 Indiana Reports 77 (1854); Indiana, Laws (1855), 50; quotation from Indiana, Documentary Journal (1854),
                            597; see also Clark, Indiana University, 194.
               
                     to work frantically to persuade the legislature to have the
                    state assume this liability directly rather than have the claim paid from Indiana University funds.
                    The General Assembly finally agreed, by a slim one-vote margin in the Senate, that the state of
                    Indiana, not the state university, should assume responsibility for the payment.33 The state auditor and treasurer then designated $66,585 as the amount due in
                    settlement of the controversy pursuant to the opinions of the 
                        United States
                     Supreme Court, but Judah retained $26,728.23 of the total for fees and
                    expenses. The trustees of 
                        Vincennes
                     University then sued Judah for an accounting, but the state supreme court found for
                        Judah.34 In 1895 a second "final payment" of
                    $15,000, payable in two equal installments, was included as a line-item in the
                    state'S general appropriations act without any explanation for the grant. In 1907 the state
                    appropriated a further $120,548 for 
                        Vincennes
                     University, but the act authorizing this third "final payment" was
                    vetoed by Governor J. Frank Hanly and passed over his veto. He then refused to sign the bonds, and
                    there the matter rested until Thomas R. Marshall took office as governor in 1909 and signed them.35 Hanly then sued as a private citizen to enjoin delivery, but the Indiana
                    Supreme Court held against him.36 Getting money from the state for higher
                    education certainly was not easy!
            
               
                        Vincennes
                     University continued to serve as an institution of learning in the southwestern part of
                    Indiana, although it must have been a struggle for it to stay open. By the time of the Great
                    Depression in 1929 the school was in desperate straits, and it became obvious that the university
                    could no longer depend upon tuition as its principal source of income. Curtis G. Shake, a young 
                        Vincennes
                     attorney who had graduated from 
                        Vincennes
                     University and who had been elected to its board in 1923, conceived the idea of
                    requesting the Indiana General Assembly to allow 
                        Knox County
                     to levy a five-cent property tax on each one hundred dollars of assessed value within
                    the county, the proceeds of which would go to the support of the university. This legislation was
                    passed in 1931, and since that time the university has enjoyed this support from its home county.
                    The levy was raised to nine cents in 1961 when the university took over the nursing education
                    program of the county'S Good 
                  
                     33 Clark, Indiana University, 194.
                  
                     34 Indiana, Documentary Journal (1855), 281; Judah v. The Trustees of the 
                                    Vincennes
                                 University, 16 Indiana Reports 56 (1861).
                  
                     35 Indiana, Laws (1895), 316-17; ibid. (1907), 497-99. Governor Hanly disagreed with the 
                                United States
                             Supreme Court ruling and took the position that this was an unconstitutional
                            appropriation of public funds for a private purpose. He further observed that this claim had
                            already been settled twice. See Jacob Piatt Dunn, Indiana and Indianans; a
                                History of Aboriginal and Territorial Indiana and the Century of Statehood (5
                            vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1919), 321.
                  
                     36
                            Hanly v. Sims, Secretary of State, et al., 175 Indiana Reports 345
                        (1910).
               
                     Samaritan Hospital, which had its own four-cent levy.37 Shake was also instrumental in obtaining passage of an act in 1939 that
                    enabled the university faculty to become members of the Indiana State Teachers Pension fund
                    beginning in 1941. This legislation was a first step in Shake'S long-range plan to have 
                        Vincennes
                     University become a part of Indiana'S state university system as an
                    independent institution.38
            
            In 1946, at a time when all of the institutions of higher learning in Indiana were overwhelmed by the
                    returning veterans of World War II, it became apparent that 
                        Vincennes
                     University must have additional financial support if it was to be able to carry its
                    share of the load. Shake (by now Judge Shake, having served as a justice on the Indiana Supreme
                    Court from 1938 to 1945) conceived the idea of asking the state of Indiana to match the funds raised by 
                        Knox County
                     in support of the university. This concept was supported by Governor Ralph F. Gates and
                    adopted by the General Assembly in 1947. As the student load became heavier and heavier, it became
                    apparent that even more public support was required if the school was to fulfill its mission.
                    Legislation was passed in 1955 providing that the state should furnish twodollars
                    of state funds to the university on a continuing basis for every dollar raised by 
                        Knox County
                    ; this formula still prevails today.39
            
            On June 1, 1950, Dr. Isaac Beckes was called to be the president of 
                        Vincennes
                     University. He was a graduate of 
                        Vincennes
                     University with degrees from Indiana State Teachers College, McCormick Theological
                    Seminary, and Yale. He was a dynamic forty-year-old Presbyterian minister and came at a time the
                    school had a student body of 180 and total annual budget receipts of some $103,000.40
            
            Things changed fast. A local fund drive for capital funds was successful. The city of 
                        Vincennes
                     and the 
                        United States
                     government conveyed Harrison Park to the university for a new campus, and the school
                    moved into its new classroom and administration building in October, 1953. The renovated old pump
                    house of the city'S water utility and some army-surplus frame structures constituted the
                    remainder of the new campus. A number of vacant brick industrial buildings in the area were then
                    acquired (a former brewery-distillery complex in 1960 and a cold-storage warehouse in 1965) and
                    converted into classrooms, laboratories, and shops. These acquisitions 
                  
                     37 Indiana, Laws (1931). 627-29; Ibid (1961), 206-208; Indiana, Opinions of the Attorney General
                            (1961), 261-75
                  
                     38 Indiana, Laws (1939), 673, Indiana, Opinions of the Attorney General (1941), 261.
                  
                     39 Indiana, Laws (1947), 1049-50; ibid (1955), 309-10.
                  
                     40 Dr. Isaac Beckes retired in 1980. He was succeeded by Dr. Phillip M
                            Summers, the incumbent.
               
                    
                    
                  PHILLIP M. SUMMERS PRESIDENT, VINCENNES UNIVERSITY 1980
               
                    
                  ISAAC K. BECKES PRESIDENT, VINCENNES UNIVERSITY 1950-1980
               
                    
                  CURTIS G. SHAKE BOARD OF TRUSTEES, VINCENNES UNIVERSITY
                            1923-1975
                  Courtesy Byron K Lewis Historical Library, 
                                Vincennes
                             University
               
                     obtained the university a deserved reputation for making a
                    dollar go a long way. Judge Shake'S comment that "the school had the best
                    second-hand campus in the U.S." was appropriate. A student union building was constructed
                    in 1959 and a library in 1960. The university was now in business on a much larger scale.
            
               
                        Vincennes
                     University and its two-year program was approved and fully accredited by the North
                    Central Association of Colleges in 1956, and the school grew rapidly to its present size of 6,500
                    students, 40 percent of whom are in liberal arts transfer programs and 60 percent in the forty-three
                    degree programs offered by the business, health, technology, and public service divisions.
            In 1959 Lieutenant-Governor Crawford Parker, in a discussion with me, suggested that in light of the
                    substantial funds being furnished to the university by the state—together with the broad
                    powers of eminent domain given its board, which was at that time a self-perpetuating
                    body—provision should be made for appointment of some of the trustees of the university
                    by the governor. This proposal was acceptable to all concerned, and in 1959 the General Assembly
                    passed legislation which provided that the governor would appoint six trustees to the
                    university'S Board of Trustee.41
            
            I was serving in the Indiana Senate in 1955, 1957, and 1959 and was Senate sponsor of the legislation
                    affecting the university during those years. (House sponsors were Representative Charles H. Schenk
                    of 
                        Vincennes
                     and Representative Paul E. Strate of Free-landville.) I used a condensed version of the
                    above history of the tumultuous relationship between 
                        Vincennes
                     University and the state of Indiana in the presentation to the legislative committees
                    and in the floor debates. The members of the legislature were fascinated by the story, as all of them had been exposed to enough political vendettas themselves to understand how
                    the feud between Harrison and Jennings could have destroyed 
                        Vincennes
                     University. An effective argument in the debate over whether Indiana still owed a
                    financial obligation to the university was the fact that the congressional township which had been
                    granted by the federal government to 
                        Vincennes
                     University lay within the area of the 
                        Gibson County
                     coal and oil fields! The Indiana Department of Natural Resources Geological Survey
                    Report of 1975 discloses that fifty-one separate oil fields now exist in 
                        Gibson County
                     in addition to extensive, rich coal fields.42 Had 
                        Vincennes
                     University been permitted to retain the grant, and had the school kept the land, it
                    would now be a very wealthy institution.
            By the 1950s and 1960s 
                        Vincennes
                     University, because of its unique educational program as the only comprehensive junior
                    college 
                  
                     41 Indiana, Laws (1959), 975-76.
                  
                     42 G. L. Carpenter and Stanley J. Keller, Oil Development
                                and Production in Indiana during 1974 (Indiana Department of Natural Resources
                            Geological Survey Report; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1975), Table V, pp. 8-20.
               
                    
                    
                  TOWNSHIP (PATOKA) IN GIBSON COUNTY GRANTED TO VINCENNES UNIVERSITY IN 1804
                  Prepared by the Drafting Department, 
                                Vincennes
                             University
                  Reproduced from Robert C 
                                Kingsbury
                            . An Atlas of Indiana (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1970). 8
               
                     in Indiana,43 together with its very
                    impressive record in offering individualized two-year career instruction, had developed a
                    broad-based, statewide group of supporters. The school continued to grow to its present student body
                    of over 6,500 students from all over Indiana. The continued growth to an institution of this size created financial pressures that required the state to furnish support in
                    addition to its matching funds, and in 1965 Indiana began to provide substantial direct line-item
                    appropriation aid to the university.44
            
            In 1976 the financial problems of the university reappeared, and the legislature, after having tried
                    to resolve them in 1975, felt structural changes should be imposed, especially since the state was
                    now the principal financial support of the school. It was felt that the university'S
                    accounting system should conform to the procedures recommended by the Indiana State Board of
                    Accounts, and the legislators were further of the opinion that the unwieldy 24-member university
                    board should be reduced in size so that it would be comparable to boards of the other
                    state-supported institutions of higher learning. These views were consistent with the
                    recommendations that had been made to the 
                        Vincennes
                     faculty and staff on October 23, 1975, by Beckes and Robert Stryzinski, the new
                    director of administrative services of the school. Stryzinski'S familiarity with the
                    legislative process was of great help in developing the program that was finally adopted.
            On January 29, 1976, Senate Finance Committee Chairman Lawrence M. Borst and Senate Education
                    Committee Chairman Eldon F. Lundquist called a conference with the 
                        Vincennes
                     University Board of Trustees. House Ways and Means Committee Chairman 
                        Spencer
                     J. Schnaitter also attended. The university trustees met informally for dinner at the 
                        Columbia
                     Club in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on the evening of the conference, and after discussion unanimously agreed to accept the
                    proposal being suggested by the legislators. They then attended the meeting with the legislators in
                    a body. The conference was held at 7:00 p.m. in one of the large legislative hearing rooms in the
                    state capitol. The atmosphere was cordial, and the legislators were advised that the proposals for
                    restructuring the university board were acceptable to the trustees without a dissenting vote. A
                    largely self-perpetuating board thus 
                  
                     43 According to a memorandum from Gus Stevens, librarian, Lewis
                            Historical Library, 
                                Vincennes
                             University, to Dr. Isaac Beckes, president, 
                                Vincennes
                             University, the first actual use of the term "junior college"
                            in 
                                Vincennes
                             University'S 1899 catalog, says: "It [
                                Vincennes
                             University] is halfway between a commissioned high school and a full fledged
                            college. It is in fact a junior college. Its graduates are admitted to junior standing in
                            all the best universities." Stevens to Beckes, October 26, 1979.
                  
                     44 Indiana, Laws (1965), 409.
               
                    
                    
                  VINCENNES UNIVERSITY 1980s VIEW OF THE CAMPUS
                  
                  Courtesy Byron R Lewis Historical Library, 
                                Vincennes
                             University.
               
                    
                    
                  VINCENNES WATER COMPANY PUMP HOUSE BEFORE AND AFTER RENOVATION
                            AS VINCENNES UNIVERSITY'S ROBERT E. GREEN AUDITORIUM
                  
                  Courtesy Byron R Lewis Historical Library. 
                                Vincennes
                             University
               
                     agreed to give way to a board all of whose members were
                    appointed by the governor.45
            
            The 1976 legislature responded by passing Senate Bill 370—authored by Senators P. Merton
                    Stanley and Lundquist and sponsored in the House by Representatives Schnaitter and William L.
                    Long—by a vote of 45 to 3 in the Senate on January 28, 1976, and a vote of 91 to 0 in the
                    House. House amendments to the Senate bill were accepted by the Senate 44-3 on February 10, 1976.
                    The act became Public Law 150 when approved by Governor Otis R. Bowen on February 20, 1976. It
                    provided for appointment by the governor of all trustees of 
                        Vincennes
                     University. The new board took office October 4, 1976. In the same legislative session
                    House Bill 1101, adopted by the House and Senate on February 20, 1976, and signed by Governor Bowen
                    on February 25, 1976, provided an appropriation of $5,140,842 for 
                        Vincennes
                     University in the state'S operating budget.46
            
            Today the 
                        Vincennes
                     University Board of Trustees consists of ten members, one of whom must be a student,
                    all of whom are appointed by the governor of the state of Indiana. The president of the university
                    and superintendents of 
                        Knox County's
                     three school corporations serve as ex-officio members. 
                        Vincennes
                     University with its unique two-year program is now a part of the state university
                    system and is Indiana'S only community college.
            An old wound has finally healed!
            
               
                  45 It appears that no minutes were taken at either the trustees'
                        discussion or at the meeting with the legislators. I have compared my recollections of the
                        evening with Senator Lawrence Borst, Senator Merton Stanley, and Representative 
                            Spencer
                         Schnaitter, and they concur generally with this summary. Note that the conference
                        of the university trustees and legislators on January 29, 1976, was held after passage of Senate
                        Bill 370 by the Senate but prior to its passage by the House of Representatives and prior to
                        passage of the state'S operating budget on February 20, 1976.
               
                  46 Indiana, Laws (1976), 983, 879.
            
         
         
         
            The Woman'S Improvement Club of 
                        Indianapolis
                    : Black Women Pioneers in Tuberculosis Work, 1903–1938
            
                    Earline Rae Ferguson
                    *
                
            During the first decades of the twentieth century Americans of all classes came to terms with the
                    ways in which industrialization and urbanization affected their lives. The diversity of experience
                    was reflected in the dissimilarity of progressive reformers. Women approached reform from the
                    vantage point of family experiences and values and based their actions in the private and public
                    spheres on those values. Whatever their background, many American women responded strongly to the
                    urgent needs of the poor and the progressive temperament of their time, commiting themselves to
                    social work and reform within their communities.
            One of the vehicles used by American women to achieve their goals was the woman'S club.
                    Initially, middle-class white women, who were confined to the home after marriage, found that
                    participation in club life afforded them the opportunity to grow intellectually and socially. As
                    they became more aware of the problems and issues in American life, however, clubwomen began to
                    embrace an ideology that would permit them to move out into the public sphere of
                    activity—"Municipal Housekeeping." Implicit in organization was a
                    responsibility to benefit their communities as well as their families. The woman'S club
                    became the vehicle that they used in an attempt to meet that responsibility.
            Few black women, however, were confronted by the domestic void that plagued middle-class white women,
                    in part because from the beginning they had worked outside the home to a much greater 
                  
                     * Earline Rae Ferguson is a graduate student in history at
                            Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            . She wishes to thank Professor Richard J. M. Blackett for his encouragement and
                            guidance and Professor Miriam Langsam for technical assistance in preparing this paper, an
                            earlier version of which won the W.E.B. DuBois Prize for Afro-American Studies at Indiana
                            University.
               
                     extent than their white counterparts.1 The
                    double discrimination of racism and sexism forced the black woman to operate within a different
                    context: the fact that she was compelled to assume basic responsibilities for the sustenance of her
                    family, plus the fact that she constantly had to prove herself to the white community, gave her the
                    ability to reject the meekness and docility implicit in the doctrine of the "Cult of True
                        Womanhood."2 The tenacity and resourcefulness that the black woman
                    had to cultivate to maintain her family and community are evident in the stories of black clubwomen
                    across the nation.
            During the Progressive Era black women in 
                        Indianapolis
                     shared the national concern for the unfortunate. They were instrumental in founding and
                    carrying out the work of organizations devoted to some aspect of social work in the black community. 
                        Indianapolis
                     was a growing metropolis at the turn of the century, and the steady increase in its
                    black population meant that there was always much to do. The efforts of black women in church
                    groups, lodges, and clubs informed the entire 
                        Indianapolis
                     community of the problems faced by blacks and the need for their solution. Black
                    women'S struggles to ensure their community'S survival are apparent in the
                    experience of the Woman'S Improvement Club, the group most responsible for attacking
                    tuberculosis among the 
                        Indianapolis
                     black population, which was excluded from the health care successes of white 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            When the Woman'S Improvement Club organized as a literary circle in 1903, it was in keeping
                    with the literary tradition of black women across the nation. The church was the primary forum for
                    black Hoosier women'S literary activity, just as it was the vehicle for their community
                    service endeavors. 
                        Indianapolis
                     black women were vital members of literary societies at Bethel A.M.E. Church, Allen
                    Chapel, Simpson Chapel, and Ninth Presbyterian Church throughout the end of the nineteenth and into
                    the twentieth centuries.3 Leadership in these church literary associations was
                    shared by black men and black women. In 1879 the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Leader, a black newspaper, recorded a meeting of the Bethel Literary Society, in
                    which both men and women participated in the formation 
                  
                     1 For the history of the white woman'S club movement see
                            Karen J. Blair, The Clubwoman as Feminist: True Womanhood Redefined,
                            1868-1914 (
                                New York
                            , 1980). In 1890 four million American women had entered the labor force. Of
                            that number almost one million were black. Barbara Wertheimer, We Were There:
                                The Story of Working Women in America (
                                New York
                            , 1977), 195.
                  
                     2 For the "Cult of True Womanhood" see Barbara
                            Welter, "The Cult of True Womanhood: 1820-1860," American
                                Quarterly, XVIII (Summer, 1966), 151-74; Marilyn Dell Brady, "The 
                                Kansas
                             Federation of Colored Women'S Clubs, 1900-1930," 
                                Kansas
                            
                            History, IX (Spring, 1986), 29.
                  
                     3 For the early organization of black women'S clubs and
                            literary societies see Dorothy B. Porter, "The Organized Educational Activities of
                            Negro Literary Societies, 1828-1846," Journal of Negro Education,
                            V (October, 1936), 555-76.
               
                     of a relief organization to aid needy immigrants from the
                    South. In 1891 Allen Chapel Literary Society had eight officers, three of whom were women. In 1894
                    and 1895 Bethel A.M.E. Literary Society had six officers, one of whom was a male president. When
                    Bethel A.M.E. additionally organized the Twentieth Century Literary Society in 1896, two of the
                    officers elected were women. In 1892 Simpson Chapel Epworth League, which also engaged in literary
                    activities such as lectures and debates, elected seven officers, four of whom were women. That same
                    year half the officers elected in Ninth Presbyterian Church'S literary society were
                        female.4
            
            Black women shared community networks with black men in secular, as well as church-affiliated,
                    literary club activities. (In fact, the names of some of the women involved in church-oriented
                    organizations indicate a probable family relationship to men who were prominent in the black
                    community and who were associated with other social organizations.) In 1888 the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Freeman, a nationally influential black Hoosier newspaper, recorded a meeting of
                    the Parlour Reading Circle, a secular literary club that had been in existence for a number of
                    years. The president of that society was male, but seven of the eleven officers were women, all of
                    whose names figured prominently in subsequent club activity. The Freeman also mentioned two other
                    clubs as having mixed memberships. The Atheneum Literary Society elected six officers in 1894 and
                    1895, only one of whom was male. The Demia Debating Club elected five officers in 1894, and, except
                    for the president, all officers were women.5
            
            Network sharing and mutual support are an important part of the Woman'S Improvement Club
                    story. Many WIC members were the daughters of or were themselves leading participants in nineteenth
                    and early twentieth century literary activity, as officers, lecturers, and debaters. Black
                    businessmen, male church leaders, and physicians tangibly supported WIC efforts through donations of
                    time, materials, services, and money. Joint activity and cooperation with black men are particularly
                    evident in WIC women'S involvement in other community organizations such as the Flanner
                    Guild, YMCA, and the Alpha Home for Aged Colored Women. WIC members were also prominent in
                    gatherings of local, state, and national organizations such as the black convocation of the Knights
                    of Pythias, the Afro-American Council, and the Anti-Lynching League, which met in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            The founder of the Woman'S Improvement Club, Lillian J. B. Thomas, was the Indiana
                    representative to the executive commitment 
                  
                     4
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             Leader, November 29, 1879, p. 4; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, June 6, 1891, p. 12, February 17, 1894, p. 8, November 30, 1895,
                            p. 8, December 12, 1896, p. 8, May 5, 1892, p. 8, December 17, 1892, p. 8.
                  
                     5
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, September 8, 1888, p. 8, June 30, 1894, p. 8, February 17, 1894,
                            p. 8.
               
                     tee of the National Afro-American Council, as well as an
                    organizing member of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Anti-Lynching League. An exceptional woman, she was acclaimed throughout the state and
                    the rest of the country as an elocutionist. In 1891 she was the first 
                        Indianapolis
                     black to take the state civil service examination for clerkship. A well-known writer,
                    she held an editorial position on the Freeman from 1891 until 1893. In 1893 she
                    married James E. Fox, a Jamaican immigrant tailor from Pensacola, 
                        Florida
                    . After their marriage her husband relocated his business to 
                        Indianapolis
                    . In 1900 the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News hired Lillian Thomas Fox to write the first column in a white 
                        Indianapolis
                     newspaper devoted entirely to the activities of black Hoosiers. Fox'S concern
                    with providing care to black tuberculous patients probably came directly out of her own experience.
                    In 1893 both her mother and brother died of the disease.6
            
            Fox'S achievements reflected those of many black women at the turn of the century, as did
                    those of Beulah Wright Porter, one of her partners in organizing the WIC. Porter was a schoolteacher
                    who gave up teaching in 1893 to study medicine. In 1897 she was the first black female physician to
                    open practice in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Her medical career was frequently interrupted by returns to teaching, and by 1901 it
                    appears that she gave up her medical practice entirely—possibly due to the reluctance of
                    people to seek treatment from a woman doctor. By 1905 she was the principal of Public School 40 and
                    in that year represented black Hoosier schoolteachers at the Colored National Teachers Convention in 
                        Atlanta
                     where she also presented a paper. Although Porter gave up her practice, her medical
                    expertise was to be invaluable to the WIC in the club'S tuberculosis work.7
            
            Although married, neither Porter nor Fox had children. Most WIC members, however, managed to raise
                    sizeable families at the same time as their involvement in club work. Daisy Brabham, the WIC
                    nurse/social worker and "friendly visitor," raised six children 
                  
                     6 Cyrus Field Adams, "The Afro-American Council: The Story of
                            Its Organization—What It Stands for—Its Personnel," The Colored American, VI (1903), 337; Indiana Freeman,
                            September 8, 1894, p. 8, May 2, 1891, p. 12, September 12, 1891, p. 6, June 3, 1893, p. 8,
                            August 12, 1893, p. 8, January 27, 1894, p. 8; Willard B. Gatewood, Jr., ed., Slave and Freeman: The Autobiography of George L. Knox (
                                Lexington
                            , Ky., 1979), 227; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Ledger, February 7, 1914, p. 1; death certificates for Jane Janette Thomas
                            and Charles T. Thomas, 
                                Marion County
                             Board of Health, 
                                Indianapolis
                            . For a brief biography of Fox see Earline Rae Ferguson, "Lillian
                            Thomas Fox: 
                                Indianapolis
                             Journalist and Community Leader," Black History News and
                                Notes, XXVIII (May, 1987), 4-8.
                  
                     7
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, March 25, 1893, p. 8, October 31, 1891, p. 8, June 27, 1897; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, June 3, 1905, p. 11; R. L. Polk & Co., pub., 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            City Directory for 1905 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1905), 950.
               
                    
                    
                  LILLIAN J. B. THOMAS (FOX) Courtesy Indiana Historical Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                     and kept to a busy schedule.8 Many WIC
                    members were schoolteachers, a few of them graduates of the Normal College at 
                        Terre Haute
                    , more of them graduates of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Teachers College run by the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Free Kindergarten Society.9 Unquestionably, membership in the WIC
                    connoted status within the black community in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The Freeman, Leader, and World, three black 
                        Indianapolis
                     newspapers, each of which identified different groups of people as black 
                        Indianapolis
                     "society," all recognized Fox, Porter, Ada Harris, Ida Webb Bryant,
                    Roxie Belle, Cora Jackson, and other WIC women as community and social leader.
            At the turn of the century determinants of the WIC woman'S status in the black community
                    included several elements, among them her husband'S profession, as well as her own
                    educational or professional standing, and the length of her family'S residence in the
                    particular black community.10 While it is true that by the 1920s
                    Woman'S Improvement Club members were predominantly professional women, primarily teachers
                    and social workers, this does not appear to have been the case during the early club years. During
                    those years a few WIC members were professional women in their own right; some were married to
                    professional men, while others worked as cooks, seamstresses, cateresses, and domestic servants.
                    Some of the women could trace their family roots to the 1870s and 1880s. Others were married to
                    businessmen, physicians, or ministers but had arrived in 
                        Indianapolis
                     at the turn of the century. Still other WIC members who came to 
                        Indianapolis
                     in the early 1900s were neither professional women nor married. Whatever the
                    determinants of status were, however, WIC clubwomen were socially prominent.11
            
            Membership in the Woman'S Improvement Club was exclusive—restricted to twenty
                    members by the WIC Constitution and By-Laws. 
                  
                     8
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, February 19, 1940, p. 7; Jean Douglas Spears, Brabham'S
                            granddaughter, interview with author, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, February 18, 1987. See also Roy Lubove, The Professional
                                Altruist: The Emergence of Social Work as a Career (
                                New York
                            , 1982). The "friendly visitor" was a volunteer who assisted a
                            social worker by serving as a friend to the family in need.
                  
                     9 Emma Lou Thornbrough, The Negro in Indiana: A Study of
                                A Minority (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1957), 345. Names of some WIC women who graduated from teacher'S
                            preparatory programs at these two institutions appear in the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman during the 1890s.
                  
                     10 Tullia Kay 
                                Brown
                                Hamilton
                            , "The National Association of Colored Women, 1896-1920"
                            (Ph.D. dissertation, Emory University, 1978), 50.
                  
                     11 Darlene Clark Hine, When the Truth Is Told: A History
                                of Black Women'S Culture and Community in Indiana, 1875-1950 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1981), 38; Polk, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            City Directory, 1898-1920; membership lists, Woman'S Improvement
                            Club ledgers, 1909-1911, 1917-1918, Woman'S Improvement Club Manuscript Collection
                            (Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ); Elizabeth Enix, daughter of WIC original member Frances B. Martin, interview
                            with author, March 12, 1986, June 11, 1987; Frances Stout, historian of 
                                Indianapolis
                             Bethel A.M.E. Church, ibid., June 4, 1986; and Ruth
                            Clinthorne, daughter of the Reverend Henry Herod, pastor of Second Christian Church during
                            this period, ibid., February 26, 1986.
               
                     Club organization was sophisticated, with four standing
                    committees and several appointive ones for each project that the club undertook. Because the size of
                    the club was so small, each woman had the opportunity to serve on a committee—in fact,
                    was depended upon to do so—and at some point most WIC members held office. Consequently,
                    although there were several women who stood out as strong personalities and leaders, all club
                    members developed and exhibited organizational competence and ingenuity.12
            
            Woman'S Improvement Club members were educated women—even if only self-educated.
                    While it is not known where or if Fox attended college, it is evident that she was an educated,
                    "cultured" woman. Her exceptional communication skills facilitated her contacts
                    within the white community, and she clearly used them to further the agenda of the WIC. Other WIC
                    women were definitely educated beyond the high school level. Ada Harris, schoolteacher and organizer
                        par excellence, attended courses at the 
                        Marion County
                     Teachers Institute and at 
                        Butler
                    , Indiana, and Wilberforce universities in order to continue to perfect her craft. In
                    the 1890s Harris, a "modern" woman, was one of the few 
                        Indianapolis
                     black female bicyclists. She, too, was involved in the formation of black
                    women'S national organizations, traveling to 
                        Washington
                    , D. C., 
                  San Francisco, California
               , and 
                  Atlanta, Georgia
               , to
                    attend congresses of black club- and churchwomen.13
            
            WIC members, like other black and white clubwomen, believed firmly in middle-class values and the
                    middle-class way of life. In addition, she, like other blacks and unlike many of her white
                    counterparts, had firsthand experience with the increased violence and racism occasioned by
                    industrialization and urbanization. This knowledge caused her to see unity, self-help, and group
                    consciousness as effective strategies for survival. In December, 1895, Fox traveled to
                            
                  Atlanta, Georgia
               , to present a paper at the First National Congress of Colored
                    Women. On her trip between 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Atlanta
                     a railway conductor forced her to move from her first-class seat to the smoking car,
                    which contained a "colored section." Like many other middle-class blacks forced to
                    suffer this indignity, Fox decided to test the constitutionality of the Jim Crow 
                  
                     12 Constitution and By-Laws, WIC ledger, 1909-1911, WIC Manuscript
                            Collection.
                  
                     13 Hine, When the Truth Is Told, 38. Blacks in this
                            period valued self-education highly. See Sadie Izzard, "Self-Culture: An
                            Essay," The Colored American Magazine, VII (1904), 638-39; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, December 22, 1894, p. 8, August 29, 1896, p. 8, October 19, 1896,
                            p. 8, July 18, 1896, p. 8, July 3, 1897, p. 8, August 8, 1896, p. 8.
               
                     laws and filed suit against the Southern Railroad Company.
                    Unfortunately, the details and success or failure of this suit are unknown.14
            
            It was impossible for black clubwomen to separate their concerns as women from their concerns as
                    black people. They were not, however, aloof to women'S issues. That WIC members were well
                    aware of their special qualities and responsibilities as women is suggested by the topics that they
                    chose to study in their literary work: "Womanhood"; "Woman'S
                    Rights and Especially of the Importance of Negro Women Being Alive to their Opportunities";
                    "The White Slave Traffic"; "All Children Are Exceptional and It Is This
                    Varying Personality That Makes the Life an An Educator So Fascinating and So Perplexing";
                    and biographies of missionary Elizabeth 
                        Greenfield
                    , evangelist Amanda Smith, and inventor Eliza P. McCoy. Like other American clubwomen
                    the WIC, too, supported woman'S suffrage. In the summer of 1917, after meeting the
                    prerequisites for becoming a notary public, Harris held the first registration party for 
                        Indianapolis
                     blacks at her home in order to facilitate black women'S voting.15
            
            At the turn of the century black clubwomen generally subscribed to black nationalistic values of
                    uplift, self-help, and institutional separatism. WIC members recognized that the black
                    woman'S own survival and progress were closely tied to the survival and progress of her
                    race. Some of the topics that WIC women chose to study in their literary work indicate their sense
                    of racial pride and solidarity: the biographies of Martin R. Delany, Benjamin Banneker, Sojourner
                    Truth, Alexander Crummell, Paul Lawrence Dunbar, Eliza P. McCoy, and Henry Ossawa Tanner, as well as
                    issues such as "The Negro Preacher, Qualities and Duties to His Race,"
                    "The Negro Voice," "Race Enterprise in Manufacturing, Our
                    Inventions," "Missionary Work in Africa," "The Status of the
                    Negro Soldier," and "Negro Inventions."16 Keeping
                    members informed 
                  
                     14 The story of discrimination and segregation in Indiana at the turn
                            of the century can be found in Emma Lou Thornbrough, Since Emancipation: A
                                Short History of Indiana Negroes, 1863-1963 (n.p., [1963?]), 4-8; and Thornbrough,
                            "Segregation in Indiana during the Klan Era of the 1920s," 
                        Mississippi Valley Historical Review, XLVII (March,
                            1961), 594-618. For the impact of increasing racism on black clubwomen nationally see 
                                Hamilton
                            , "National Association of Colored Women," 39-40; and Paula
                            Giddings, When and Where I Enter: The Impact of Black Women on Race and Sex in
                                America (
                                New York
                            , 1985), 17-31; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, December 21, 1895, p. 8, January 11, 1896, p. 8, January 25,
                            1896, p. 5.
                  
                     15 WIC ledger entries, February 3, March 3, April 21, May 19, 1910,
                            January 19, May 4, 1911, and July 19, 1917, WIC Manuscript Collection. For black women and
                            suffrage see Rosalyn Terborg-Penn, "Discrimination against Afro-American Women in
                            the Woman'S Movement, 1830-1920," in The Afro-American Woman:
                                Struggles and Images, ed. Sharon Harley and Rosalyn Terborg-Penn (Port 
                                Washington
                            , N.Y., 1978), 17-27; and Giddings, When and Where I Enter,
                            119-31, 159-70; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, July 14, 21, 1917, pp. 11, 13.
                  
                     16 For clubwomen and black nationalism see Wilson Jeremiah Moses, The Golden Age of Black Nationalism, 1850-1925 (Hamden, Conn., 1978),
                            chapter 5. WIC ledger entries, February 3, 24, March 3, 17, April 21, May 19, June 23, 1910,
                            July 19, October 1, 23, 1917.
               
                     about the progress of the race was integral to the WIC
                    self-education program.
            Black clubwomen, however, were interested in more than self-education. Community education, too, was
                    an important part of the "uplift" agenda. In addition to health and hygiene
                    information programs, the Woman'S Improvement Club sponsored lectures by prominent blacks
                    from other parts of the country. Visiting speakers included Mary Church Terrell, first president of
                    the National Association of Colored Women'S Clubs; Kelly Miller, professor at Howard
                    University; Ida Wells Barnett, black newspaperwoman and anti-lynching crusader; and W.E.B. DuBois,
                    the editor of Crisis magazine for the National Association for the Advancement of
                    Colored People (NAACP). These activities attracted the attendance of blacks and whites, including
                    May Wright Sewall, prominent white Indianaplis clubwoman and founder of the National and
                    International Councils of Women.17
            
            Although black clubwomen endorsed the values of black nationalism, they clearly considered themselves
                    native American citizens. During World War I, WIC members worked along with other Americans to help
                    the allied cause. They collected pledges and money for the War Chest Board as well as for the
                    National Colored Soldiers Relief Committee, the Colored Soldiers Comfort Home, and the orphaned
                    children of black soldiers in 
                        France
                    . WIC women also traveled to Mt. Sterling, 
                        Kentucky
                    , under the auspices of the 
                        Montgomery
                     Council of Defense to make speeches supporting the war effort.18
                    WIC members' patriotic efforts, however, were secondary to their work in the health care
                    campaign.
            The prevalence of disease and unsanitary conditions, especially in the urban areas, were issues of
                    primary concern to most Americans during the Progressive Era. Poor housing and health conditions in
                    the black community in particular compelled the Woman'S Improvement Club to focus on the
                    fight against tuberculosis. At the turn of the century an estimated five thousand Hoosiers died of
                    the disease each year, and during this period physicians and community organizations across the
                    country mobilized in the campaign against it. In 1900 the Indiana State Board of Health published
                    ten thousand circulars that were distributed to 
                  
                     17 Hine, When the Truth Is Told, 38; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, December 28, 1913, p. 19. For a biography of May Wright Sewall see
                            Barbara Jane Stephens, "May Wright Sewall, 1844-1920" (Ph.D. dissertation,
                            Ball State University, 1977).
                  
                     18 WIC ledger entries, February 4, 21, April 15, May 6, June 18, 1918,
                            WIC Manuscript Collection; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, January 31, 1919, clipping in "Other Historical
                            …" scrapbooks, American Lung Association of Indiana Manuscript
                            Collection (Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana). The scrapbooks are not labeled, nor are their pages numbered. Many
                            pages are loose from the binding, so that it is not possible to identify page numbers. There
                            is also some confusion as to the exact date of some of the articles in the
                        scrapbooks.
               
                    
                    
                  A STATE MEETING OF THE INDIANA FEDERATION OF COLORED WOMEN'S CLUBS
                  
                the homes of tuberculous patients. This endeavor was one of the white community'S
                    first organized campaigns against the disease in Indiana. A year later Dr. John N. Hurty, Indiana
                    health commissioner, asked the Indiana General Assembly to establish a sanatorium for tuberculous
                    patients. The State Hospital for the Tuberculous at 
                        Rockville
                    , Indiana, did not open its doors to the public until 1911,19 but in
                    1903, two years after Dr. Hurty'S initial request to the legislature, the Flower Mission
                    Society, a white woman'S club, opened a 25-bed unit on the grounds of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     City Hospital to care for white incurable tuberculous patients.20
                    In another attempt to control the incidence of tuberculosis in the city, Dr. Edgar F. Kiser,
                    superintendent of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     City Dispensary, investigated the advisability of establishing a free 
                  
                     19
                            
                                Marion County
                             Tuberculosis Association, Twenty-Five Years of Service (n.p.,
                            [1938?]), 6.
                  
                     20 Box 10, folder 2, 
                                Marion County
                             General Hospital Manuscript Collection (Indiana Historical Society Library).
                            The Flower Mission Society was organized by a small group of white 
                                Indianapolis
                             women to carry flowers and jellies to the sick. Responding to
                            patients' needs for nursing care, they established the first nurses'
                            training school in 
                                Indianapolis
                             in 1883. Subsequently, in 1903, they took over the operation of the Burdsal
                            unit at 
                                Indianapolis
                             City Hospital. Although Flower Mission nurses occasionally provided home care
                            for elderly blacks, the tuberculosis unit at City Hospital was closed to black
                        patients.
               
                    
                    
                  Courtesy Indiana Historical Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                tuberculosis clinic. As a result of his findings the first Free Tuberculosis Clinic and
                    Colony was opened at City Hospital in 1907.21
            
            These accomplishments, however, still left 
                        Indianapolis
                     with districts in which there were entire city blocks of tuberculous patients with no
                    facilities available to them. The problem was critical because there were no school nurses or public
                    education programs and few public health nurses. In response to the almost epidemic spreading of the
                    disease, in 1912 an "energetic, progressive businessman," James W. Lilly,
                    president of Lilly Hardware Company in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and two 
                        Indianapolis
                     physicians, Drs. Theodore Potter and Alfred Henry, founded the 
                        Marion County
                     Society for the Study and Prevention of Tuberculosis. That organization set up its
                    headquarters on East Market Street in 1913 and almost immediately turned its attention to the need
                    for a tuberculosis hospital and a program of health education.22
            
            
               
                  21
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Medical Journal, XII (December 15, 1909), 513-14, 547. The provision of care
                        for patients in the advanced stages of tuberculosis was extremely important to the containment
                        of the disease. Figures for the Free Clinic in 1908 show that 90 percent of the patients
                        examined were in the advanced stages of tuberculosis.
               
                  22 Paul D. Brown, ed., 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Men of Affairs: 1923 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1923), 385; 
                            Marion County
                         Tuberculosis Association, Twenty-five Years of Service, 7. A
                        total of 637 tuberculous patients died in 
                            Marion County
                         in 1914; yet, there were only the twenty-five beds at Flower Mission and the twelve
                        beds allotted to 
                            Marion County
                         at the state facility available for their care.
            
            
            The 
                        Marion County
                     Tuberculosis Society formed working relationships with various social and civic groups,
                    public officials, and leaders and organized a Modern Health Crusade to teach public school children
                    about good health habits. The society was also instrumental in opening a fresh air school for white
                    tuberculous students and in securing passage of legislation that made the tuberculin testing of
                    cattle and the recording of tuberculosis cases mandatory. By 1917 the tuberculosis society had
                    convinced the county to fund and open Sunnyside Sanatorium just outside 
                        Indianapolis
                    . This facility added another eighty beds to the number available to 
                        Marion County
                     tuberculous patients.23 Thus, the white community could point to
                    positive results from the campaign begun only four years earlier.
            It was not until 1919, however, that any of the public funds allocated to fight tuberculosis also
                    benefited black Hoosiers in 
                        Marion County
                    . In that year the extension of separate preventive services to blacks through the
                    opening of the Flanner House Free Tuberculosis Clinic was prompted by a concern for the white
                    community'S own survival. In July, 1919, Dr. Alfred Henry, head of the 
                        Marion County
                     Tuberculosis Society, wrote to Mayor Charles W. Jewett requesting support for larger
                    appropriations to fight tuberculosis. In his letter, Henry noted that of approximately 30,000 blacks
                    living in 
                        Indianapolis
                     134 died of tuberculosis in the first seven months of 1919. Furthermore there were at
                    least ten times that number of living cases. Calculating that each infected black had contact with
                    two to ten other people, Henry feared that conditions within the black community had reached the
                    point of "menacing the good health of the [
                        Indianapolis
                    ] community in general." Although statewide the incidence of
                    tuberculosis-related deaths had declined from 174.1 per 100,000 population in 1909 to 110.9 in
                        1919,24 the death rate for black Hoosiers was always proportionately higher
                    than that for whites. In 1903 the Monthly Bulletin of the Indiana State Board of
                    Health noted an annual tuberculosis death rate of 111.2 per 100,000 population for whites and
                    184.2 for blacks—a sizeable difference. A year earlier the Bulletin had
                    attributed a similar difference to a tendency on the part of black Hoosiers to "not observe
                    sanitary laws to the same degree as the white" and to "shut out the air in winter
                    time and huddle together around 
                  
                     23
                            
                                Marion County
                             Tuberculosis Association, Twenty-five Years of Service, 6-10; 
                                Indianapolis
                             Public Schools, Report for 1916-1917, 142-43; Monthly Bulletin of the Indana State Board of Health, IV (1902), 44;
                            "Indiana Tuberculosis Laws" (n.p., n.d.), 1-2. This pamphlet, put out by
                            the Board of State Charities of Indiana, was found in the Indiana State Library.
                  
                     24
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, August 2, 1919, clipping in "Other Historical ..."
                            scrapbooks, Lung Association Manuscript Collection. For population figures see Robert G.
                            Barrows, A Demographic Analysis of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 1870-1920 (Ph.D. dissertation, Indiana University, 1977), 54.
               
                     stoves." This observation by the State Board of Health
                    ignored the fact that Hoosiers in general objected to sanitary regulations as late as 1906, in part
                    because they were skeptical of the curability of tuberculosis. More importantly, the State Board of
                    Health clearly did not consider poor housing conditions, overcrowding, and inadequate nutrition to
                    be vital factors in the high incidence of tuberculosis among black Hoosiers.25
            
            Between 1910 and 1920 the living conditions in the 
                        Indianapolis
                     black community deteriorated further with the influx of approximately thirteen thousand
                    blacks, many from the South or the southern part of the state—a black population increase
                    of about 60 percent. The situation was made doubly dangerous by the fact that there was no place in
                    the city where black tuberculous patients could receive proper care. In the summer of 1919 Dr.
                    Charles Otis Lee, superintendent of Flanner House, a settlement house for blacks, wrote to the 
                        Marion County
                     Tuberculosis Society stressing the need for a tuberculosis hospital for blacks. He
                    cited 13,000 cases of tuberculosis in a black population of approximately 35,000 to 40,000 in all of 
                        Marion County
                    . Assuming ten contact cases for each death, Lee noted that Sunnyside State Hospital,
                    the only hospital available to tuberculous patients in 
                        Marion County
                    , admitted only nineteen blacks during 1918. Although three-quarters of the cases in the
                    state that year were reported to be black, the "few cases that … [were] taken to
                    the Flower Mission and the state hospital … [were] entirely inadequate to meet even a
                    small percent of the need."26
            
            In 1919 the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News noted that the black community itself had taken the initiative to alleviate
                    the situation but that the problem was beyond its meager resources.27 The
                    pioneers in the fight against tuberculosis in the black districts were the members of the
                    Woman'S Improvement Club. When Drs. Henry and Lee expressed their concerns in 1919, these
                    black clubwomen already had fourteen years of experience in tuberculosis work, independent of any
                    public funding or assistance.
            
               
                  25
                        Monthly Bulletin of the Indiana State Board of Health, V (1903), 64; Indiana Medical Journal, XXIII (February, 1905), 319; The Report
                            of the Indiana State Board of Health for the Year 1910 showed an average of 4,583
                        tuberculosis-caused deaths between 1901 and 1910; The Report of the Indiana State
                            Board of Health For the Year 1921 showed an average of 3,876 tuberculosis-caused deaths
                        between 1911 and 1920. Research in the reports of the Indiana State Board of Health and in
                        articles in the Indiana Medical Journal did not disclose any reference to poor
                        housing conditions in the black community as reasons for the prevalence of disease. Not until
                        newspaper articles in 1917-1919 was such a relationship mentioned.
               
                  26 Thornbrough, Since Emancipation, 17; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, August 10, 1919, p. 13, clipping in "Other Historical
                        …" scrapbooks, Lung Association Manuscript Collection.
               
                  27
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, August 2, 1919, clipping in "Other Historical ..."
                        scrapbooks, Lung Association Manuscript Collection.
            
            
            Within two years of its founding as a literary club in 1903, the Woman'S Improvement Club
                    had broadened its stated goal of self-improvement and instruction of its members to embrace
                    community assistance and improvement. In 1905 Flanner Guild, a settlement house in the black
                    community sponsored by white 
                        Indianapolis
                     mortician Frank W. Flanner, publicly announced a plan to provide care for black
                    tuberculous patients. The WIC quickly moved to take over and execute this project. Under the
                    leadership of Ida Webb Bryant, the daughter of a prominent nineteenth century black clubwoman, the
                    club—in August, 1905—secured the permission of William Haueisen, a white 
                        Indianapolis
                     businessman, to set up an outdoor tuberculosis camp on his Oak Hill property.28 That same summer the WIC paid for six "frail" black
                    children—those children who were anemic and underweight and thus susceptible to
                    tuberculosis—to be sent to the country for "strengthening" against the
                    disease. Club members also formed a nurses' training class for blacks, taught by the head
                    nurse from City Hospital. This class was of particular value to the black community since young
                    black women did not have access to the nursing schools at any of the city hospitals. Denied
                    admission to local nurses' training schools, they were forced to leave the state to attend
                    programs such as those at the Colored Hospital in 
                        Chicago
                     and in 
                  Kalamazoo, Michigan
               .29
            
            The Oak Hill Camp, purportedly the first outdoor tuberculosis camp in the entire country,
                    "was situated on a hill surrounded by grand old oak trees with a tiny stream flowing at the
                    base of the hill." Initially WIC members had a problem in persuading their patients to
                    accept the idea of allowing "nature to heal them," but by 1909 the women were
                    looking for a way to expand the size of the camp. Oak Hill Camp, in operation during the summer
                    months only, consisted of three tents on raised wooden platforms and a portable cottage with a
                    partition down the middle. One side of the building was used as living quarters for the camp matron,
                    who also 
                  
                     28
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, July 22, 1905, p. 14; Hine, When the Truth Is
                            Told, 37-38; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, April 9, 1892, p. 8, October 14, 1893, p. 8, April 28, 1896, p.
                            8, December 22, 1894, p. 5; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Leader, January 17, 1880, p. 3. Ida Webb Bryant'S mother, Huldah
                            Bates Webb, was an active participant in church, lodge, and charity work for over thirty
                            years. She was president of the Alpha Home for Colored Women for a number of years, as well
                            as one of the organizing officers of the Sisters of Charity in 1880. WIC ledger entry, June
                            3, 1909, WIC Manuscript Collection; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, July 22, 1905, p. 14, August 5, 1905, p. 23, February 19, 1940, p.
                            7.
                  
                     29 In the 1880s and 1890s social columns in the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman frequently noted that young black women were returning from
                            out-of-state nurses' training programs, particularly at the 
                                Providence
                             Hospital in 
                                Chicago
                            , which organized one of the first nurses' training programs for blacks
                            in the 
                                United States
                            .
               
                     doubled as cook and nurse, and the other side was used as a
                        kitchen.30
            
            A WIC committee appointed to acquire tents and other necessary materials invited the general public
                    to help them equip the camp. Three lumberyards, Foster Lumber Company, Balke & Krause, and
                    Schonaker, donated building materials. The Charity Organization Society, a white philanthropic
                    society, acted as liaison for donations from the greater 
                        Indianapolis
                     community.31 Lacking funding from major donors or the public
                    coffers, the WIC resorted to food sales, entertainment programs, and solicitation of money from
                    individuals, churches, and businessmen. These fundraising ventures provided money for supplies,
                    groceries, and nursing care.
            WIC members frequently contributed to the camp themselves, usually contributing items necessary to
                    camp upkeep, such as a clothesline and clothespins, washboard, and blueing. Additionally, WIC women
                    themselves were occasionally inpatients and upon release, as was the case with Rose Hummons in 1909,
                    donated money to the camp in appreciation for care received. More often, however, the WIC solicited
                    money or materials from both the black and white communities. Black churches, such as Bethel A.M.E.,
                    Allen Chapel, and Ninth Presbyterian, collected money for the WIC and provided accommodations for
                    lectures and entertainments. In 1910 the Charity Organization Society pledged a weekly donation, and
                    Lillian Thomas Fox convinced Gertrude Oakes, of the City Dispensary, to donate five dollars a week
                    until fifty dollars was received to benefit the camp. That same year Daisy Brabham, another WIC
                    member, persuaded the manager of the Nickel Theatre to donate one day'S proceeds to the
                    camp, and the grocer from whom the WIC regularly bought supplies donated five dollars to their
                        work.32
            
            Despite the members' vigorous collecting activities, however, it was volunteer support from
                    the black community that sustained the WIC in its work at the Oak Hill camp. The
                    secretary'S reports for 1909 through 1911, for example, indicated an average yearly
                    operating budget of only eighty dollars. Although some whites did 
                  
                     30 Hine gives 1908 as the year in which the first white outdoor
                            tuberculosis camp was established in Indiana, at 
                                Evansville
                            . Hine, When the Truth Is Told, 38. Ida Webb Bryant cites the
                            August, 1905, opening of a camp in 
                                Colorado
                            , one month after the opening of Oak Hill Convalescent Camp, as the first white
                            one to open in the nation. Ida Webb Bryant, Glimpses of the Negro in 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 1863-1963 (typescript; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1963), 57; WIC ledger entries, May 20, June 3, June 17, 1909, WIC Manuscript
                            Collection; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, July 22, 1905, p. 14.
                  
                     31
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, July 22, 1905, p. 14, July 29, 1905, p. 3, August 5, 1905, p. 23.
                  
                     32 WIC ledger entries, September 24, 1909, April 21, June 10, 1910,
                            July 13, September 9, October 19, 1911, WIC Manuscript Collection.
               
                     contribute to the camp, black volunteers physically set up the
                    facilities and donated transportation and supplies for patients. Black physicians frequently donated
                    their professional services as well as advice. Other black women'S associations in the city
                    and throughout the state actively supported the WIC'S work through donations of money and
                    materials and the organizing of fund-raising events.33
            
            This community support may have resulted because WIC women were active in other church and secular
                    groups as early as 1880 and thus could effectively marshal outside help. For example, Ada B. Harris,
                    the black schoolteacher in charge of the first committee to outfit Oak Hill Camp, had also been an
                    officer in the Phyllis Wheatley Club, the Murphy Temperance League, and the Christian Endeavor
                    Society of Bethel A.M.E. Church. Additionally, in October of the same year in which the
                    Woman'S Improvement Club was organized, Harris founded a boys' club, for which by
                    1905 she had raised sufficient funds to purchase property and a building that contained a gymnasium,
                    reading room, and baths.34 Beulah Wright Porter was not only one of the founding
                    officers of the WIC but was also an officer in the Sisters of Charity, Parlour Reading Club, the
                    Mayflowers Club, and the local chapter of the NAACP.35 Lillian Thomas Fox also
                    wore many organizational hats. In addition to being an organizing vice-president of Bethel Christian
                    Endeavor Society and a superintendent at Sisters of Charity Hospital, she was instrumental in
                    getting Indiana clubwomen to organize the Indiana Federation of Colored Women'S Clubs in
                        1904.36
            
            Even with the support of the black community, funding for the operation of Oak Hill was always tight,
                    and the Woman'S Improvement Club was often forced to close the camp earlier than planned.
                    The women, however, did not allow money shortages to discourage them. If necessary, and when they
                    had it, they personally provided funds to keep projects going. Thus, in 1909, the club not only
                    considered building an additional cottage on the campgrounds but also wanted to erect a cottage on
                    the grounds of City Hospital for the 
                  
                     33 Annual secretary'S reports, February 16, 1911, February 3,
                            1910, WIC ledger, WIC Manuscript Collection; WIC ledger entries, June 17, September 9, 24,
                            1909, September 29, 1911, ibid.
                  
                     34
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Recorder, November 12, 1892, p. 5; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, May 23, 1896, p. 8, July 18, 1896, p. 8; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, June 23, 1906, p. 9.
                  
                  
                     35
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Leader, January 17, 1880, p. 3; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, September 8, 1888, p. 8, October 31, 1891, p. 7, October 4, 1896,
                            p. 8, June 27, 1897, p. 8; Box G-63, National Association for the Advancement of Colored
                            People Manuscript Collection (Library of Congress, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C.).
                  
                     36
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, June 11, 1892, p. 8; Polk, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            City Directory for 1912; salary receipts in "Sisters of Charity
                            Box" in the National Council of Negro Women Manuscript Collection (Indiana
                            Historical Society Library); Souvenir Booklet Containing Historical Sketches of
                                Indiana Federation of Colored Women'S Clubs Up To and Including Twenty-First
                                Annual Convention at Gary, August 1924 (n.p., n.d.), 5; Charles Harris Wesley, The History of the National Association of Colored Women'S Clubs: A
                                Legacy of Service (
                                Washington
                            , D. C., 1984), 35.
               
                    
                    
                  ROSE HUMMONS
                  
                  Courtesy Indiana Historical Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                     use of black patients. The WIC tried to reach William Haueisen
                    to get his permission to build on Oak Hill, but he was traveling abroad for his health. His son
                    refused to grant permission in his father'S absence and further suggested the
                    inadvisability of building on property that they did not own. He did propose that if the WIC bought
                    one or more lots at Oak Hill his father would probably give the club another one. This proposal,
                    however, was not followed up since the son was not authorized to speak for his father.37
            
            Although in 1909 the Woman'S Improvement Club did not have the money in hand to build a
                    cottage on City Hospital grounds, in 1911 Fox met with Dr. Freedland, the superintendent of City
                    Hospital, to discuss the club'S proposed plans. He refused their request to build, stating
                    that there were cottages not in use already erected at 
                        Indianapolis
                     City Hospital. No consideration appears to have been given, however, to allowing black
                    patients to use the "unoccupied" cottages.38
            
            As the WIC members became more experienced and more confident of their ability, they increased their
                    contacts with the greater 
                        Indianapolis
                     area. Although the Woman'S Improvement Club had earlier solicited support for
                    its work outside the black community, club minute ledgers first mention extracommunity ties in
                    April, 1911. At that time clubwomen met with three nurses from Metropolitan Life Insurance Company
                    to discuss a plan by which the company might assist in the reopening of the Oak Hill Camp.
                    Metropolitan had a program in which nurses accompanied its agents on weekly collection visits to
                    clients' homes. Those visits enabled Metropolitan'S nurses to keep track of
                    illnesses and refer patients to proper facilities or a doctor for care. In the case of blacks the
                    club'S contact with the Metropolitan nursing program established a system of referrals to
                    the Oak Hill Camp.39 In June, 1911, concerned with expanding its contacts with
                    other agencies and hoping to generate interest in its work, the Woman'S Improvement Club
                    held a public meeting at the Colored YMCA. The club allocated funds to advertise the meeting and
                    sent letters of invitation to physicians and ministers in the community. Mary Arnold Meyers,
                    executive secretary of the 
                        Marion County
                     Tuberculosis Society, was one of the speakers. The meeting was a success, well-attended
                    by the black community with a handful of interested whites in the audience.40 In
                    July, 1911, the WIC became interested in learning 
                  
                     37 WIC ledger entries, May 20, June 3, 17, 1909, July 25, September
                            14, 1910, WIC Manuscript Collection.
                  
                     38 WIC ledger entry, May 19, 1911, ibid.
                  
                     39 Thurman B. Rice, "The Hoosier Health Officer, a Biography
                            of Dr. John N. Hurty: Beginnings of Public Health Nursing in Indiana," Monthly Bulletin of the Indiana State Board of Health, XLVIII (January, 1945),
                            35-70; WIC ledger entries, April 20, June 1, 1911, WIC Manuscript Collection.
                  
                     40 WIC ledger entry, June 15, 1911, WIC Manuscript Collection.
               
                     how other tuberculosis camps operated. The club delegated a
                    committee, headed by its member-physician Beulah Wright Porter, to visit and observe the operations
                    of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     white City Hospital and to obtain a copy of the rules governing the operation of its
                    fresh-air camp. This trip, however, must have reinforced their confidence in the quality of their
                    own operation, for the only mentioned improvement that they made to the Oak Hill Camp after this
                    visit was the addition of a visitor'S book to record the many visitors to Oak Hill.41
            
            The Woman'S Improvement Club closed its camp permanently in 1916. Population growth and the
                    proximity of new homes have been cited as factors that convinced the women to take this action.42 Those factors might indeed have had some influence on the women'S
                    decision, but the continuing lack of funds and loss or misplacement of equipment in combination with
                    a general trend away from institutionalization as the only method of caring for the tuberculous
                    might have had a more direct bearing on their decision. By the second decade of the twentieth
                    century Hoosier medical journals indicate an acceptance of home care methods in tuberculosis
                    treatment and a move away from the view of institutionalized treatment as the ideal. The cost of
                    treatment, both in dollars and time away from the family, would have made home treatment the more
                    functional and appealing approach for black patients. Statistics indicate that the majority of
                    tuberculous patients, black and white, were women who had to find alternative care for their
                    families when they were institutionalized. Even when her children were cared for by white-organized
                    child care groups, the mother had to worry about meeting the expenses incurred by her children in
                    addition to her own expenses.43
            
            Once the operation of Oak Hill Camp was discontinued, WIC members turned to home nursing, social
                    work, and educational programs, which could be carried out on a year-round basis. Between 1916 and
                    1918 the Woman'S Improvement Club sponsored lectures to educate the community about
                    tuberculosis and other health matters in order to raise money for their work. They had the support
                    of several black ministers, who allowed them to use church facilities for slide shows and lectures.
                    Mary A. Meyers was a frequent speaker at club meetings and WIC-sponsored community assemblies. She
                    and the WIC women had a supportive relationship. 
                  
                     41 WIC ledger entry, July 20, 1911, ibid.
                  
                     42 Hine, When the Truth Is Told, 38.
                  
                     43 Sunnyside Sanatorium, Annual Report for the Year
                                Ending December 31, 1919, p. 11, clipping file (
                                Marion County
                             Public Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ); WIC ledger entry, July 13, 1909, WIC Manuscript Collection. In July, 1909,
                            the WIC was asked by the Children'S Aid Society to pay the expenses incurred by the
                            children of a black woman who was hospitalized at Sunnyside.
               
                     She endorsed their work, and they loaned her the use of their
                    tents on several occasions.44
            
            In November, 1916, the Woman'S Improvement Club, in conjunction with the Woman'S
                    Club, another black woman'S club organized by former WIC member Lillian Jones 
                        Brown
                    , made a joint appeal to Flower Mission Hospital to accept black patients. Although the
                    hospital agreed to admit a few black patients, it later reneged and continued its policy of
                    discrimination. This hospital policy was in keeping with an established notion that the black
                    community—with some assistance from whites—would assume the responsibility for
                    its own charity work, even though "charity work" for blacks usually meant
                    providing the same basic services furnished to the white community by the state and city
                        governments.45 Also in November, 1916, the WIC took part in the opening of
                    the first "muslin window" (fresh air) school in 
                        Indianapolis
                     for black children—a room converted for this use at Public School 24.
                    Working closely with Mary Cable, principal of the school and founder of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     chapter of the NAACP, the clubwomen throughout 1917 sponsored a number of activities to
                    raise funds for the school. The most successful of those events was a children'S Christmas
                    party that they held at Tomlinson Hall. Entry was free of charge, and the only profit that the club
                    made was from the sale of refreshments. Despite a bad snowstorm children from schools 23, 24, 26,
                    and 37 attended. The club sent fourteen dollars to Cable and continued to support the school as long
                    as the need existed.46
            
            In October, 1917, the College of Missions, a training school for physicians and orderlies at Flower
                    Mission Hospital,47 offered to cooperate with the WIC in its work and to help
                    finance the employment of a social worker to visit and care for patients at home. Superintendent Lee
                    of Flanner House helped the women design a 
                  
                     44 WIC ledger for 1916-1918, back cover listing, WIC Manuscript
                            Collection; Hine, When the Truth Is Told, 39; WIC ledger entries,
                            September 13, October 1, 1917, March 8, July 3, 1918, WIC Manuscript Collection.
                  
                     45 WIC ledger entry, November 2, 1916, ibid.;
                            Elizabeth Enix, daughter of Frances B. Martin, an original WIC club member, interview with
                            author, March 12, June 11, 1987. WIC ledgers entries for February 21 and June 18, 1918, show
                            that the women repeat the same request, to no avail. Young Men'S Christian
                            Association of 
                                Indianapolis
                            , One Hundred Years of Service (n.p., [1958?]), 85; Dr. John
                            A. Kenney, "Health Problems of the Negroes," Annals of the
                                American Academy of Political and Social Science, XXXVII (March, 1911), 110-20. As
                            blacks nationwide became increasingly concerned about the actual survival of the race, more
                            and more black organizations were formed to provide health education and health care.
                  
                     46 WIC ledger entries, November 23, 1916, March 8, 21, April 15, 28,
                            May 2, 1917, January 7, 1918, WIC Manuscript Collection.
                  
                     47 It is possible, but not clear, that the College of Missions
                            referred to in the WIC ledger entry for November 19, 1917, was the same Sarah Davis
                            Deterdine Missionary Training School established in 1910 by the Christian Woman'S
                            Board of Missions. See Jacob Piatt Dunn, Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                : The History, the Industries, the Institutions, and the People of a City of
                                Homes (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1910), I, 436-38.
               
                     questionnaire for applicants. The WIC advertised in the
                    newspapers and interviewed several candidates for the position, including Lillian Kakaza, the black
                    woman eventually hired as the nurse for the Flanner House Tuberculosis Clinic.48
                    By the end of February, 1918, the clubwomen decided to hire one of their own members because they
                    felt that she would be more interested in their work than an outsider. In April, 1918, Daisy
                    Brabham, wife of the Reverend George R. Brabham of Ninth Presbyterian Church and a WIC member since
                    1910, began work at a salary of thirty-five dollars per month. The decision to select an insider may
                    have hinged upon the club'S previous bad experience with a camp nurse who left without
                    notice, possibly because the WIC was often behind in payment of her salary. With Brabham the group
                    could count on a nurse willing to work without pay when there were no funds, so this was apparently
                    a wise decision.49
            
            Despite being constantly strapped for money to operate, the Woman'S Improvement Club
                    continually pushed for expanded services. In 1918 the WIC approached the Flanner Guild in an
                    unsuccessful attempt to get that organization to open a tuberculosis clinic. The women did, however,
                    set up a working arrangement with Flanner Guild, in which guild social service experts advised them
                    on "how to put [their] own assistant to work in a business[like] manner."
                    Unfortunately, the WIC minutes ledgers do not go into detail as to exactly what that arrangement
                        entailed.50
            
            Finally, in 1918, the WIC'S pressure within the white community had tangible results. In
                    February a WIC committee sent to negotiate with Flower Mission Hospital managed to get permission to
                    furnish a room for black patients. In April the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star offered to publicize the club'S work in its columns, an unusual step
                    since this was not the paper'S usual fare. In May the WIC members sent a letter to the
                    State Board of Health successfully requesting that their social worker be given the power of a
                    health official. In June they received a letter commending their work from the 
                        Indianapolis
                     War Chest Board, an organization that was formed in 1918 to sell Liberty Bonds but that
                    also funded local charities and the Red Cross. Endorsement by the War Chest meant that the
                    Woman'S Improvement Club was eligible to apply for assistance from the organization, and
                    this the women promptly did. In 1919 the War Chest awarded the WIC five hundred dollars to finance
                    their 
                  
                     48 WIC ledger entries, November 19, 1917, January 21, October 18,
                            1918, WIC Manuscript Collection.
                  
                     49 WIC ledger entries, July 7, 1910, October 19, 1911, ibid.
                  
                     50 Hine, When the Truth Is Told, 39. Quotation is
                            from WIC ledger entry, November, 1916, WIC Manuscript Collection.
               
                    
                    
                  FLANNER HOUSE TUBERCULOSIS CLINIC, 1919 NURSE LILLIAN KAKAZA; DR. HENRY L. HUMMONS
                  
               
                    
                  OAK HILL CONVALESCENT TUBERCULOSIS CAMP, SEPTEMBER, 1905 Courtesy
                            Indiana Historical Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                     work. In July, 1919, the club was also formally endorsed by the 
                        Marion County
                     Tuberculosis Society.51
            
            The State Board of Health'S endorsement of the WIC'S work further heightened the
                    club'S public credibility with the white community. In 1919 when Dr. Alfred Henry sent his
                    letter to 
                        Indianapolis
                     Mayor Charles W. Jewett requesting support for the tuberculosis measure under
                    consideration by the county commissioners, the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News reported that the WIC supported Henry'S request to the mayor.
                    Brabham and the WIC supplied Henry with the figures for the number of cases of tuberculosis in the
                    black community. These figures were probably unusually accurate because, in addition to acting as
                    the club'S contact with the newspapers, the board of health, and Flanner House, Brabham
                    accompanied any physician in charge of patients on his home visits in the black community and
                    provided follow-up care to those patients. She also worked closely with Kakaza, the nurse/social
                    worker in the new Flanner House Tuberculosis Clinic, which was opened in February of 1919 and
                    jointly managed by Flanner House and the tuberculosis society.52
            
            In November, 1919, the WIC signed a petition and delivered it to the county commissioners asking that
                    additional funds be appropriated to Sunnyside Sanatorium to provide care for incurable black
                    patients. That year Sunnyside provided eight beds for use by blacks and treated a total of fifteen
                    patients. The total number of black patients is low because they averaged a longer residence at the
                    institution than white patients and so were discharged in smaller proportion than whites. The length
                    of their stay in the sanatorium was probably related to two factors. First, wage earning and child
                    care responsibilities deterred most blacks from seeking treatment until they were seriously or
                    incurably ill. Second, home conditions, where blacks were forced to live in the same room and often
                    to sleep in the same bed as tuberculous patients, were not conducive to a restful cure. The WIC
                    publicized its request for more beds for black patients in the newspapers. The club'S plea
                    resulted in plans for an addition of fifty beds for blacks at the sanatorium. In 1919 only eight
                    beds were allotted to blacks, and fifteen black patients were treated that year.
                    Sunnyside'S annual reports up to 1926 do not show any increase in the number of beds to
                    fifty. In fact, the reports indicate that the institution continued to allocate beds to 
                  
                     51 WIC ledger entries, February 21, April 15, May 6, June 18, 1918,
                            WIC Manuscript Collection; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, January 31, August 2, 1919, May 19, 1922, February 19, 1940, p. 7,
                            in "Other Historical ..." scrapbooks, Lung Association Manuscript
                            Collection; Community Surveys, Inc., of 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Community Chest: A Case Study in Philanthropy (
                                Toronto
                            , 1957), 89-90.
                  
                     52
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, November 19, 1919, in "Other Historical ..."
                            scrapbooks, Lung Association Manuscript Collection; 
                                Marion County
                             Tuberculosis Association, Annual Report of 1920, pp.
                        9-10.
               
                     blacks on a pro rata basis in which they were considered as
                    onetenth of the population of 
                        Marion County
                    .53
            
            In April, 1920, the funds raised by the one cent tuberculosis tax levy approved by the legislature in
                    1919 became available to the 
                        Indianapolis
                     City Board of Health. The board used this funding to establish additional clinics,
                    specifically a night clinic to facilitate the attendance of working men and women, and three branch
                    clinics, In August, 1920, the City Board of Health, again using such funding, took over the Flanner
                    House Free Tuberculosis Cinic.54
            
            Despite the increase in preventive health services available to 
                        Indianapolis
                     blacks, however, there was still no place where black advanced tuberculous patients
                    could go for extended care. In 1922 the next generation of Woman'S Improvement Club
                    members, who were younger, professional women, responded to the need for such facilities. Launching
                    a direct attack on the problem, they took over the abandoned Sisters of Charity Hospital on 
                        California
                     Street. There they provided care for black advanced tuberculous patients until 1924
                    when, with the assistance of Dr. Henry and the 
                        Marion County
                     Tuberculosis Society, they managed to purchase a cottage large enough for six patients.
                    Eventually they convinced the Community Fund of 
                        Indianapolis
                     to finance the employment of a trained nurse at the Agnes Street Cottage. Until 1938
                    approximately thirty-five patients a year found treatment at the cottage. In that year the Flower
                    Mission provided a segregated ward in its new hospital on 
                        Fall Creek
                     Boulevard. Throughout the 1920s Woman'S Improvement Club expanded its social
                    service activities. The women secured funds for undernourished black children to spend summers in
                    the country and financially assisted poor blacks threatened with eviction. At the same time they
                    continued to provide milk and eggs to those ill at home with tuberculsis.55
            
            Thus, by the 1930s, both blacks and whites in 
                        Indianapolis
                     were able to turn to a variety of services to aid people suffering from tuberculosis.
                    In the case of the white communtiy the work had been achieved by a coalition of
                    groups—the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Board of Health, City Hospital, and the 
                        Marion County
                     Tuberculosis Society—with no one group being dominant. In the case of the
                    black community, however, the Woman'S Improvement Club, while it was joined by others,
                    clearly initiated and spearheaded the drive to provide tuberculosis facilities.
            
               
                  53
                        Souvenir Booklet, 23; Sunnyside Sanatorium, Annual Report for the
                            Year 1925 and 1926, p. 8, clipping file (
                            Marion County
                         Public Library).
               
                  54
                        
                            Marion County
                         Tuberculosis Association, Twenty-five Years of Service, 10-11; 
                            Marion County
                         Tuberculosis Association, Annual Report of 1920, pp. 9-10.
               
                  55 Hine, When the Truth Is Told, 39-40; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, February 2, May 13, 1937, and 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, clippings in file entitled "
                            Indianapolis
                        —Hospitals— City " (Social Sciences Division, 
                            Indianapolis
                        —
                            Marion County
                         Central Library).
            
            
            WIC clubwomen'S activities were in step with those of American women nationwide, as they
                    entered the mainstream of public affairs. The history of the Woman'S Improvement Club
                    reflects the goals of black clubwomen nationally at the turn of the century. The club offered its
                    members an opportunity for further education, which was increasingly denied them by white society,
                    and for selfexpression. Concerned not only with self-improvement but also with racial survival and
                    uplift, WIC women, like black women across the nation, made community welfare a primary part of the
                    club'S agenda. The Woman'S Improvement Club story is also part of the history of
                    social welfare trends and reflects the change from the use of volunteers only to the use of
                    volunteers and a well-trained staff. As educated women, club members approached
                    tuberculosis work in the new professional and scientific manner that prevailed during the
                    Progressive Era. In August, 1918, the club even undertook the study of Johns Hopkins University
                    texts on "The Negroe'S Tendency to Tuberculosis." The initiative of WIC
                    women in charity work exemplifies the changes in philosophy from "handouts" to
                    "scientific preventive work," and changes in methods of financing assistance to
                    the indigent.56
            
            To the best of their abilities members of the Woman'S Improvement Club provided an important
                    social service to their community. This service eventually caused them to venture out into the
                    greater 
                        Indianapolis
                     community to fight for the needs of 
                        Indianapolis
                     blacks. In a period of increasing racism WIC women, out of necessity, reached across
                    the racial divide to whites. Neither the refusal of the white 
                        Indianapolis
                     community to accept them as equal beneficiaries of the progress that white 
                        Indianapolis
                     made in health care nor the lack of funds to implement their own plans caused them to
                    falter in fulfilling their agenda.
            
               
                  56 WIC ledger entry, August, 1918, WIC Manuscript Collection. For the
                        transformation of social work from the private philanthropy of the 1800s to the professional
                        social worker of the early 1900s see Lubove, Professional Altruist.
            
         
         
         
            The Spirit of Commerce in the Journalism of Carlos McCarty
            
                    Stephen Harold Riggins
                    *
                
            Carlos McCarty (1873-1934) wrote about national and state events and local history for the Loogootee,
                    Indiana, Martin County Tribune for nearly thirty-five years. As the
                    newspaper'S only local columnist during the first three decades of the twentieth century,
                    McCarty, a lawyer by profession, probably did more to shape public opinion in Martin County than any
                    other resident. In 1930 when he was elected prosecuting attorney for Martin County, he received one
                    of the largest popular votes in the county'S history,1 a fact perhaps
                    in part attributable to his popularity with the readers of the Tribune.
            McCarty'S column, some years titled with deceptive simplicity "Crisp Bits of News
                    from the County Seat," avoided the controversial issues of the day. His readers encountered
                    few of the sordid scandals, film and radio personalities, or political conflicts that dominated
                    national and state news. Possibly painful local controversies were also apparently deliberately
                    avoided. Ku Klux Klan activities, for example, passed without comment although the KKK parade in
                    Loogootee in the spring of 1924 attracted one of the largest crowds in the town'S
                        history.2 McCarty also tended to ignore local labor problems and local
                    opinion on prohibition. It is further revealing that while he did write about the lynching of a
                    notorious group of local criminals in Shoals in 1886, he apparently thought 
                  
                     * Stephen Harold Riggins is assistant professor of
                            sociology, University of Alberta, Edmonton, 
                                Canada
                            .
                  
                     1 Obituary of Charles Thomas (Carlos) McCarty, Loogootee, Indiana, Martin County Tribune, November 28, 1934.
                  
                     2 Reports of the Ku Klux Klan parade in Loogootee can be found in:
                            "Special Police are Sworn in at Loogootee Today," 
                                Washington
                            , Indiana, Democrat, April 26, 1924; "Little Trouble
                            at Loogootee Celebration," ibid., April 28, 1924. The Loogootee,
                            Indiana, Martin County Tribune of May 1, 1924, contains an editorial on
                            the event and an article titled "Had Big Crowd." The leader of the parade,
                            who is unnamed in some articles, was a Loogootee veterinarian named Guy Chandler. See also
                            Stephen Riggins, "Notes Toward a Portrait of Reba (
                                Brown
                            ) Chandler," in The Republic of Indiana, No. II, ed.
                            Bill Whorrall (Shoals, Ind., 1983), n.p.
               
                     such happenings did not merit more than superficial reports.3 On the other hand, McCarty frequently aired his economic opinions in his
                    column, thus providing insight into his and his contemporaries' views on economic issues in
                    southwestern Indiana between World Wars I and II.
            A recurrent economic theme in McCarty'S Tribune column was his promotion
                    among his readers of what Alexis de Tocqueville defined in 1835 as the American "spirit of
                    commerce." Typical American traits, according to the Frenchman, were a preference for
                    commercial occupations and an idealization of entrepreneurship; Americans, he said, were restless,
                    strove for personal success, and were exceptionally willing to take risks.4
                    Whether or not McCarty consciously ascribed the definition of such values to Tocqueville, the
                    southern Indiana lawyer believed in them, considered them synonymous with modernization, and thought
                    them essential to the general good of the community. In McCarty'S opinion, however, the
                    residents of Martin County adhered more closely to what the sociologist Max Weber later called
                    "economic traditionalism."25 Rather than striving for progress
                    and greater affluence, they seemed to McCarty content to make only enough money to sustain a
                    relatively low standard of living. It was in this context that McCarty promoted the spirit of
                    commerce.
            Despite McCarty'S frequent criticism of his Martin County neighbors' economic
                    indolence, his own stance regarding modernization was inconsistent. A constant advocate of economic
                    "progress," McCarty nonetheless felt a strong attachment to traditional rural
                    virtues. Although his columns were rarely explicitly nostalgic, particularly during the early 1920s,
                    they often extolled pioneer craftsmanship and self-sufficiency. More often the articles promoted
                    economic development and modern initiative. At the local level McCarty'S role models were
                    John Anthony, a man who had experimented in human flight in the 1870s and 1880s, and the founders of
                    the frontier community called Hindostan. In both cases, however, McCarty exaggerated the degree to
                    which these people were committed to the spirit of commerce. The social disorder caused by the Great
                    Depression of course challenged McCarty'S belief in this spirit. Unfortunately, the
                    lawyer'S death in 1934 denied his readers anything more than his initial reactions to the
                    economic conflict.
            
               
                  3 Carlos McCarty, "Mob Law," Martin County
                            Tribune, May 8, 1924.
               
                  4 Alexis de Tocqueville, Democracy in America, trans.
                        Henry Reeve (1835; abridged, 
                            New York
                        , 1964). 112, 115-20, 213-16, passim.
               
                  5 Max Weber, The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of
                            Capitalism, trans. Talcott Parsons (1930; student edition, 
                            New York
                        , 1958), 59-69. It should be noted that topics discussed in this paper include not
                        only the "strictly economic" but also the "economically
                        relevant," to use Weber'S terminology. The latter refers to conduct that is
                        not explicitly economic but that has consequences for the economy. McCarty'S repeated
                        effort to boost local pride is an example.
            
            
            McCarty'S background provides the setting for the evolution of many of his economic
                    opinions. The McCarty family came to America early; in fact, Carlos knew of only one ancestor who
                    had immigrated to the 
                        United States
                     after the Revolutionary War.6 Both his mother'S and
                    father'S families were pioneer settlers in Martin County, Indiana. During the Civil War
                    Carlos'S father, Charles (1830-1895), served as a captain in Company A of the 17th Indiana
                    Volunteer Infantry. Charles remarried after his first wife died in 1870 at the age of thirty-three,
                    and Carlos was born to the second wife, Margaret Ford (1839-1908). Charles Thomas McCarty, or Carlos
                    as he preferred to call himself after a local Spanish street vendor, was born in 
                        Vincennes
                    , Indiana, on April 6, 1873. When he was about seven years old, his parents returned to
                    Martin County, and his father practiced law in Shoals. Carlos spent nearly all his adult life there.
            McCarty was a member of the second class to graduate from Shoals High School. Because of the small
                    population of the town there were only enough students to form a second class several years after
                    the first class had graduated. During this interval McCarty attended the Southern Indiana Normal
                    College at 
                        Mitchell
                    . Typical of his personal reticence in "Crisp Bits of News from the County
                    Seat," McCarty rarely mentioned his own education. Since he did have a high school diploma,
                    one can infer that he was better educated than the majority of his readers. His literary background,
                    however, was apparently very conventional and did not extend much beyond a knowledge of the
                    better-known nineteenth century English and American authors. At various times McCarty referred to
                    the books of Mark Twain, Charles Dickens, Nathaniel Hawthorne, Henry David Thoreau, and Rudyard
                    Kipling. Samuel Pepys was one of the rare seventeenth century writers whom he mentioned in his
                    columns. Nothing, however, would lead a reader to believe that McCarty had more than a cursory
                    understanding of any of these authors. The lawyer/journalist was also knowledgeable about the more
                    popular mass publications of his day: 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Chicago
                     newspapers and magazines such as the National Geographic.
            McCarty was hired as the Shoals correspondent for the Martin County Tribune in the
                        spring of 1891 when he was eighteen years
                    
                  
                     6 Biographical information on Charles Thomas (Carlos) McCarty was
                            obtained from obituaries in the Shoals, Indiana, News, November 30, 1934;
                            and the Martin County Tribune, November 28, 1934; from "Tribute
                            paid to Carlos McCarty in 
                                Washington
                            ," ibid., December 20, 1934; and from some brief
                            remarks by McCarty'S daughter, Margaret Force, at a meeting of the Martin County
                            Historical Society, April 29, 1984. The major sources for this article itself are
                            McCarty'S columns in the Martin County Tribune between the autumn
                            of 1918, when McCarty was anticipating the end of World War I, and his death in 1934. Also
                            utilized was Carlos T. McCarty, "Hindostan—A Pioneer Town of Martin
                            County," Indiana Magazine of History, X (June, 1914),
                        54-62.
               
                     old.7 Around 1894 he briefly became the
                    owner and publisher of a newspaper called the 
                        Montgomery
                    , Indiana, Monitor, which was published in 
                        Daviess County
                    , Indiana.8 After that venture failed, McCarty returned to Shoals
                    and, following in his father'S footsteps, became a lawyer. He acquired the knowledge to
                    pass the bar examination by apprenticing with his father. McCarty continued his journalistic
                    activities more as a hobby than as a source of support. According to his daughter, Margaret Force,
                    he earned three dollars per article—and a free newspaper.9 An added
                    incentive would have been the constant newspaper exposure that was undoubtedly beneficial to his
                    legal practice.
            As available information makes no reference to McCarty'S involvement in any business venture
                    other than his newspaper in 
                        Montgomery
                    , one can surmise that McCarty was uninformed or ill-informed about the practical
                    realities of business, above all those at the corporate level. Certainly, his legal practice would
                    not have brought him into contact with clients from big business. The decade of the 1920s, however,
                    was an era in which large corporations rapidly expanded; McCarty, who may not even have realized it,
                    probably grew increasingly out of touch with contemporary economic conditions.
            Surviving articles do not include explicit remarks about McCarty'S perception of his role as
                    a journalist, but the following statement about self-censorship is certainly consistent with the
                    column'S contents:
                        [The local newspaper] always prints everything good about the locality and is very chary of
                            permitting anything to enter its column which would by any means be disparaging. It leaves
                            out more than it publishes and where there is any question as to the better method of
                            procedure in making public local happenings it stands on the side of silence and safety for
                            the community.10
                  
                    
                    
                  
                     7 The first surviving issue of the Martin County
                            Tribune that lists McCarty as Shoals correspondent was published June 5, 1891. At that
                            time, however, he was simply compiling a list of local happenings, not writing articles.
                            McCarty apparently held this position until 1894, August 18 of that year being the last
                            extant issue in which he is listed as correspondent. Then in 1900 McCarty assumed his
                            position as correspondent once again, and his column reappears as early as January 26, 1900.
                            The column at that time took the form that it had throughout the 1920s and 1930s. It
                            consisted of both a list of events and an article on a topic of McCarty'S choice.
                            Because the Martin County Tribune was not preserved prior to the opening
                            of the Shoals Public Library, few of his articles published before 1917 seem to have
                            survived. The column was frequently reprinted, however, and a search through other southern
                            Indiana newspapers might uncover articles appearing before World War I.
                  
                     8 The 
                                Montgomery
                            
                            Monitor is so obscure that it is not listed in John W. Miller'S
                                Indiana Newspaper Bibliography … (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1982).
                  
                     9 Comment by McCarty'S daughter, Margaret Force, at a meeting
                            of the Martin County Historical Society, Loogootee, Indiana, April 29, 1984.
                  
                     10 Carlos McCarty, "The Local Newspaper," Martin County Tribune, April 10, 1924.
               
                    
                    
                  LOOGOOTEE, INDIANA, MARTIN COUNTY TRIBUNE, C. 1908 or 1909
                  Left to Right: Emma (Penrod) Norris, Ray 
                                Brown
                            , Hallie Farrell, Reba (
                                Brown
                            ) Chandler
                  Original photograph by Joseph Alonzo Spears (1880-1938).
               
                     Although one looks in vain for comments on the moral dilemma of
                    a journalist trying to shape public opinion, that McCarty intended to influence his
                    readers' beliefs is obvious, most notably whenever he mentions the distorted image of rural
                    southern Indiana found in 
                        Indianapolis
                     newspapers. According to McCarty, 
                        Indianapolis
                     journalists thought that people who lived in the hills of southern Indiana were
                    simpletons. "Up there people do not think we are far removed from the lowest type of
                        southerners."11 McCarty believed that such biased views produced
                    feelings of superiority in 
                        Indianapolis
                     at the expense of southern counties, and he took it upon himself to counteract this
                    negative image, going so far as to claim that the authentic Hoosier traditions could be found only
                    in the southern part of the state. He further declared that he feared the time when all of northern
                    Indiana would be culturally integrated with 
                        Chicago
                    .12
            
            For most of his life McCarty'S political sympathies were Republican, and in the early years
                    between World Wars I and II he sometimes used his column to advance the Republican cause in a
                    straight-forward manner: "The worst that can be said of the Republican administration is
                    that it has not kept Main street clean or kept the globes on the lamp-posts on Main street clean.
                    Rather a small matter … ."13 After the mid-1920s, however,
                    his writing became less strident. Although McCarty harshly criticized Wood-row Wilson during the
                    presidential campaign of 1920, he allowed the decisive election of 1932 to pass with little comment.
                    In the 1924 election he counseled voters not to undermine the two-party system by choosing
                    "self-seeking political parasites" who represented third parties. McCarty feared
                    that, because of their political naïveté, women (as well as men voting for the
                    first time) were especially likely to pick third-party candidates such as Robert La Follette, who
                    was running for the presidency on the Progressive party ticket.14 In 1919
                    McCarty equated Bolshevism with anarchy, calling it an "ulcer." It had, he said,
                    the "destructiveness of a lightning bolt," but he believed it to be an expected
                    aftermath of war and unrealistically strict enforcement of the law. His criticism was more tempered
                    than one might expect.15
            
            As a local politician McCarty was quite pragmatic. Campaigning for office for the first time in 1930,
                    he chose to switch his party affiliation and run as a Democrat. He did not justify his behavior in
                    print, but his reasons are self-evident. Not only had the handling of the economy in 
                        Washington
                    , D. C., handicapped Republicans 
                  
                     11 Carlos McCarty, "Blissful Ignorance," ibid., November 10, 1927.
                  
                     12 Carlos McCarty, "Current Comment," ibid., March 19, 1931.
                  
                     13 Carlos McCarty, "The Shoals Election," ibid., November 1, 1923.
                  
                     14 Carlos McCarty, "A Word to Voters," ibid., January 10, 1924.
                  
                     15 Carlos McCarty, "Bolshevism," ibid., May 1, 1919.
               
                     at all levels of government but Martin County tended to vote
                    Democratic. In addition, the Tribune reported that the local Republican party was
                    in disarray. Martin County Democrats won by a landslide in 1930. Changing parties must have placed
                    McCarty in an awkward position during the national election of 1932 because his reaction to the
                    Depression did not suggest that he would have wholeheartedly supported 
                        Franklin
                     D. Roosevelt. McCarty also ran as a Democrat in the elections of 1932 and 1934. He
                    campaigned unsuccessfully in 1934 for the office of judge in the 49th judicial circuit, which
                    contains Martin and 
                        Daviess
                     counties. The larger population of 
                        Daviess County
                     turned out to be a disadvantage for the politician/journalist from Martin County.
                    McCarty died in November, 1934, only a few months after his wife. An obituary mentioned overwork as
                    a contributing cause of his death.
            From McCarty'S comments in his columns it is clear that he thought only a person'S
                    public activities should concern readers. It thus should not be surprising that, despite the
                    duration of his weekly column, little is known about McCarty'S private life. McCarty
                    appears to have been the quintessential village lawyer of the early twentieth century except,
                    possibly, for his long commitment to journalism. He was moderately successful in his profession;
                    active in volunteer associations and the Methodist church; and, so far as one can determine, a model
                    spouse. Family photographs show him to have been an attractice and robust young man with slightly
                    wavy dark hair.16
            
            McCarty'S values seem to have been established during the years preceding World War I, and
                    he apparently did not doubt their continued relevance for the 1920s. Too old to fight in the war, he
                    neither experienced nor wrote about the disillusionment that the conflict produced in many younger
                    Americans. The "roaring '20s" were not for McCarty a "jazz
                    age." The world he presented was an austere one of constant work and simple pleasures; in
                    that respect it is a world view similar to the one described in Robert and Helen Lynd'S 
                        Middletown
                    , the classic study of an Indiana community in the interwar years.17
            
            In his journalism McCarty lavished attention on what might be considered the most insignificant
                    details of small-town life: the wild asters that bloomed on vacant property, the unsightly gravel
                        
                  
                     16 During the weeks just before McCarty became Shoals correspondent
                            for the Martin County Tribune, the newspaper contained references to the
                            young man'S enjoyment of his youth: "Carlos McCarty and Harry Carroll
                            attended the social dance at Loogootee Friday night. The girls say ‘come again
                            boys.’" "Where was Carlos McCarty last Sunday night? He looked
                            like a traveling fencepost just pulled out of the mud." Martin Courrty
                                Tribune, January 16, February 13, 1891.
                  
                     17 Robert S. Lynd and Helen Merrill Lynd, 
                                Middletown
                            : A Study in American Culture (
                                New York
                            , 1929).
               
                     pit that he knew to be the remains of a prehistoric lake shore,
                    the tales of a deceased local storyteller. The cumulative effect of such detail is a heightened
                    appreciation of the taken-for-granted.18 These ordinary but unusual topics gave
                    McCarty'S column much of its flavor, but they recorded the quality of small-town life in a
                    manner inconsistent with the writer'S promotion of economic modernization and the mass
                    society that accompanied it.
            
                    Lightning, during the storm Monday at noon, played hob generally with the street lighting system
                        ... As a result there were no street lights Monday night, but being a bright moonlit night with
                        the harvest moon at its best, they were not needed.19
               
                    Roy Billings is a well known farmer who lives north of town on a large river bottom farm. Roy has
                        two automobiles, one a small eleven passenger Ford, which is used by the children and
                        neighboring children to drive to town to school and is also used by Roy when not otherwise
                        engaged. Roy also has a large Buick six which he drives when the notion strikes him. One night
                        last week he decided to come to town. It was dark when he started and on his arrival in town he
                        parked, as usual, in the business section. Passers by noticed a peculiarity about the car which
                        was investigated and it was discovered that an old white hen had chosen the top of the Buick for
                        a roosting place before Billings started to town. She was not disturbed and set quietly on top
                        of the car as long as it was on the street, riding back home without her slumbers being
                        appreciably disturbed by her journey to town.20
               
                
            In November, 1918, anticipating the end of World War I, McCarty noted that a conclusion to the
                    hostilities would not mean an end to competition and strife. Social life was inevitably
                    characterized by conflict, he believed. All that would change would be the way in which conflict was
                    expressed. It would be less violent and channeled into economic activities. Thus he urged readers to
                    organize business associations in order to give their hometowns a competitive advantage. The
                    military metaphors he used to describe the economy were not meant to be critical but
                        inspirational:
                        The battles of peace must be fought and won just as surely as the battles of war. There is
                            nothing in the future for the place that doesn't go after it. Get ready now during
                            the intermission between war and peace. Look well to your lines, see that they are formerly
                            established, and you will just as certainly win the campaign. You can't stay out of
                            the fight, the battle will be waged for commercial supremacy, for business leadership all
                            about you. If you do not take your part on the firing line and successfully use the
                            advantages you have, and all towns have some advantages, you must expect that at the end of
                            the next decade you will be a back number, you will be completely out of it.21
                  
                    
                    
                  
                     18 Another work documenting everyday experiences in the lives of
                            Martin County residents is Stephen and Eithel Riggins, Country Lilacs: Eithel
                                Riggins' Account of the Nathaniel Ledgerwood Family in Southern Indiana,
                                1830-1930 (Privately printed, 1983).
                  
                     19
                            Martin County Tribune, December 31, 1925. This incident was listed as part
                            of the week'S events in Shoals.
                  
                     20
                            Ibid., October 4, 1923. This incident was listed as part of the
                            week'S events in Shoals.
                  
                     21 Carlos McCarty, "Problems of Peace," ibid., November 7, 1918.
               
                     That few readers heeded such advice is evident in
                    McCarty'S cas-tigation of rural indolence, a theme that continually appeared in his
                    writings. While he celebrated Shoals'S slow-paced character, he could also be harshly
                    critical of the town, revealing at the same time an antipathy toward the American South: 
                        The lethargy of the South seems to be creeping up this way and overwhelming us.... Property,
                            business, social life, schools and all the other improvements which make any community worth
                            living in are going to continue deteriorating until our section of Indiana will be as far
                            behind the times as are the sleepy and slovenly localities to the south of us.22
                  
                    
            
            For McCarty there were two categories of people: the "boosters" of economic
                    progress, the group to which he admittedly belonged; and "the pessimists, jeremiahs, and
                    knockers," whom he scorned.23 Certainly in his opinion there were too
                    many of the latter in Martin County. "Muzzle your knockers," he urged.
                    "Don't let your drones and non-progressive citizens ride you to death. Let the
                    modern, progressive and up-to-date spirit prevail in everything ...."24
            
            McCarty thought in 1928 that the industrial development of Martin County was lagging behind that of
                        agriculture.25 During the last third of the nineteenth century the major
                    industry in Shoals had been the manufacture of timber products, particularly the making of barrels.
                    Although technological change did play some part in the decline of this industry (metal hoops
                    replaced the wooden ones that were handmade in Shoals), the dwindling number of harvestable trees
                    was the primary factor. In the early twentieth century the making of pearl buttons from mussel
                    shells became the major business in Shoals. McCarty regretfully pointed out that neither industry
                    required complex technology. Shoals factories specialized in the simpler wood products, and only the
                    initial stage of making buttons was done locally. They were then shipped west for final
                        processing.26
            
            Following the 1920 census, which showed the population of Shoals to be stagnating, McCarty worriedly
                    speculated about the reasons for this dormancy. After reviewing what he considered to be the bright
                    economic potential of the county, he concluded that the real cause of stagnation could only be the
                    "lethargy and indolence of our people."27 (Social scientists
                    of the 1980s might say that 
                  
                     22 Carlos McCarty, "A Serious Condition," ibid., August 19, 1920.
                  
                     23 Carlos McCarty, "Here at Home," ibid., June 1, 1922.
                  
                     24 Carlos McCarty, "Your Town," ibid., December 31, 1925.
                  
                     25 Carlos McCarty, "Timber in Martin County," ibid., March 15, 1928.
                  
                     26 The following article, based upon conversations with Harold
                            Riggins, describes the button-cutting industry in Martin County in the 1920s and 1930s.
                            Stephen Riggins, "Button Making—A Forgotten Industry,"
                            Loogootee Tribune, May 10, 1984.
                  
                     27 Carlos McCarty, "A Serious Condition," Martin County Tribune, August 19, 1920.
               
                     they lacked achievement motivation.) Given McCarty'S
                    adherence to free enterprise and his belief that Martin County was rich in undiscovered natural
                    resources, few other rational explanations were available to him. Every year McCarty wrote articles
                    in which he sought to inspire the spirit of commerce among readers. For instance, in an article
                    titled "Ice Cream and Opportunity," he pointed out that even something as prosaic
                    as ice cream could be highly profitable if people just took the initiative to develop new
                        products.28 Suggestions for improving local communities abound in
                    McCarty'S column: more modern utilities, more civic pride, better quality newspapers,
                    merchants displaying their wares more imaginatively, more entertainment for the young in order to
                    keep "people who are wide awake and reaching out for better things."29 The reasonableness and practicality of many of his suggestions probably accentuated the
                    dissatisfaction he felt over his ineffectiveness. Shoals hardly progressed beyond the stage of a
                    one-street business district.
            McCarty'S favorite solution to Martin County'S lagging economy was the development
                    of its tourist potential, either on a free-enterprise basis or with state help in the form of a
                    state park. A park to rival Spring Mill, near 
                        Mitchell
                     in Lawrence County, or 
                        Brown County
                     State Park, near 
                        Nashville
                    , could feasibly have been established near Shoals, which was just as scenically
                    situated in southern Indiana. Once other localities took the initiative in opening recreational
                    areas, however, there were not many attractions that Martin County could offer to distinguish it
                    from the rest of the state. Without something unique tourists would have little incentive to visit
                    Shoals. McCarty was adamantly opposed to the state'S purchasing economically marginal
                    farmland for forest reserves because, he assumed, this would result in the loss of tax revenue. He
                    called such solutions "chimerical suggestions, unreasonable, half-baked ideas."30 He died before the proposed reserves became a reality in Martin County. While
                    he occasionally wrote about tourism in a very crass manner ("Wake up and get your fingers
                    in these tourist pocket books."), he was sincerely concerned about the absence of a viable
                    economic base for the county.31
            
            Writing during the years between the two world wars, McCarty could draw upon a broad spectrum of
                    knowledge for his columns. The range of experiences available to him as topics helps to explain his
                    reaction to contemporary events. In the 1920s McCarty still had the opportunity to talk to people
                    with pioneer experience, not the first generation Hoosier pioneers perhaps but those who 
                  
                     28 Carlos McCarty, "Ice Cream and Opportunity," ibid, February 2, 1922
                  
                     29 Carlos McCarty, "The Coming Census," ibid, May 29, 1919
                  
                     30 Carlos McCarty, "The Forest Reserve Plan," ibid, February 13, 1930.
                  
                     31 Carlos McCarty. "Random Notes," ibid, July 24, 1930
               
                    
                    
                  MAIN STREET, SHOALS, INDIANA EARLY 1900s
                  THE FLAGS PROBABLY INDICATE THAT THE PICTURE
                                WAS TAKEN JUST BEFORE A FOURTH OF JULY PARADE.
                  Original photograph by Willis C. Landis (1858-1920).
               
                     had been born in the 1830s and 1840s and who had also lived
                    under primitive conditions. An article appearing in 1932, for example, commemorated the ninety-third
                    birthday of "Uncle" Levi Wildman (1839-1945). At about the age of six months
                    "Uncle" Levi had come with his parents from 
                        Ohio
                     to Indiana. As a boy on his way home from school, he had encountered a bear, and he had
                    accompanied the men who had hauled stone to build the jail in 
                        Dover
                     Hill when it was the county seat in the 1840s. McCarty reported on Wildman'S
                    account of the construction of the road between the towns of Mount Pleasant and Trinity Springs. The
                    road had, he said, followed in places a line of timber uprooted by a tornado.32
            
            At the other extreme McCarty discussed the building of a network of hard-surface roads in Martin
                    County and throughout the 
                        United States
                    . Indeed, in the 1920s, he wrote about few topics as often as the impact of the
                    automobile on everyday life. McCarty celebrated such new institutions as the gasoline station,
                    writing in an article entitled "Truly American" that its development read
                    "almost like a romance."33 On another occasion he commented
                    with admiration about the "snappy appearing filling stations."34 He continued to claim that "after all change in America always means
                        improvement",35 yet, he related that the two livery barns in town
                    destroyed by a windstorm had earlier been centers for loafing and playing poker, and he never
                    expected gasoline stations to fill that function.36
            
            Obviously McCarty thought of himself as a staunch supporter of progress; nonetheless, he remained
                    very attached to the past. That his weekly column so often featured articles on local history
                    implies a nostalgic outlook. Furthermore, he idealized Hoosier pioneers. He believed that they were
                    more artistic than their descendants and that they had created "honest, hand made home
                    made" objects while the succeeding generations preferred "bright
                        babbles."37 He liked the coarse texture of cornmeal and buckwheat
                    flour ground in the nineteenth century manner on stone buhrs. He also preferred old-fashioned
                    handmade kites to the new factory-made ones. "Today the boys go to the nearest store and
                    depositing a few nickels, are handed a rolled-up paper affair that has about as much resemblance to
                    an old time kite, as a water dog [salamander], caught about the same time in our streams, has to a
                    real bird dog."38 He 
                  
                     32 Carlos McCarty, "Almost a Century Old," ibid., March 31, 1932.
                  
                     33 Carlos McCarty, "Truly American," ibid., November 25, 1925.
                  
                     34 Carlos McCarty, "The Coming Changes," ibid., February 27, 1930
                  
                     35
                            Ibid.
                  
                     36 Carlos McCarty, "The Old Livery Barns," ibid., March 24, 1932.
                  
                     37 Carlos McCarty, "Forefathers' Artistry,"
                                ibid., October 6, 1927.
                  
                     38 Carlos McCarty, "Now Comes Kite Time," ibid., March 8, 1928.
               
                     was pleased that a millionaire, who could certainly afford the
                    best and the most modern things, had purchased a dilapidated log cabin in order to move it to his
                    property and restore it.39
            
            It must not be forgotten that McCarty wrote for an audience in one of the least prosperous sections
                    of the state. By 1934 little industrial development had taken place in Martin County, and the
                    younger, better educated citizens of the county were moving away. In terms of formal education
                    Martin County also lagged behind many areas of Indiana; in the 1930s it had more nonconsolidated,
                    one-room rural schools than any other Hoosier county.40 These factors greatly
                    limited what McCarty could do as a columnist. A successful journalist must be
                    attuned to his audience since he is writing for the present rather than the future. There are many
                    indications in McCarty'S writings that he desired to please his public (hence the
                    self-censorship) and thus produced articles combining his own beliefs with what he thought people
                    would like to read. One cannot assume, therefore, that his column was always a perfect reflection of
                    his own opinions. The form in which McCarty'S views appeared must also be considered. Short
                    weekly newspaper articles naturally fragment any author'S ideas, and since McCarty never
                    kept a scrapbook or collection of articles,41 "Crisp Bits of
                    News" may have contradictions hidden even from McCarty himself. Nor should one overlook the
                    fact that journalism did not provide his means of support. McCarty was often preoccupied by his
                    legal practice and had to write hurriedly. These factors alone, however, cannot account for his
                    vacillating reaction to modernization. Given the magnitude of the social changes that were occurring
                    and their ramifications on all aspects of everyday life, it is unlikely that anyone could have been
                    unequivocally consistent in support of "progress." McCarty of course recognized
                    the dramatic social changes that were affecting even Martin County, and his comments perhaps reveal
                    something about his reaction to them.
            
                    Tempus Fugit, or freely translating, Time Flies; and the times change so rapidly that they are
                        hard to keep up with. A few years ago if an automobile happened to come through a Southern
                        Indiana town and for some reason the driver stopped his car it would be immediately surrounded
                        by a crowd interested in the horseless carriage. Yet one day this week a brand new airplane
                        soared over town with the operator shouting to people that he was carrying passengers at a
                        reduced rate, and 
                     
                        39 Carlos McCarty, "Pioneer Comfort." ibid., December 8, 1927.
                     
                        40 Harry Q. Holt, History of Martin County,
                                Indiana (Paoli, Ind., 1953), 242. A study of education in Indiana in the 1920s
                                shows that eighth grade students who attended one-room rural schools were particularly
                                likely to have low academic achievements. General Education Board, Public
                                    Education in Indiana: Report of the Indiana Education Survey Commission (
                                    New York
                                , 1923), 14-15.
                     
                        41 Comment by McCarty'S daughter, Margaret Force, at a
                                meeting of the Martin County Historical Society, Loogootee, Indiana, April 29,
                            1984.
                  
                         only a few people were attracted by the noise of the
                        propellers and the voice of the man so they would look up.42
               
                
            Despite inconsistencies McCarty continued to believe in the efficacy of free enterprise and to
                    promote it in his column. To promote it effectively, however, he needed real people to personify its
                    values. The national figure that McCarty felt best exemplified the spirit of commerce was Henry
                    Ford. At the local level he looked to John Anthony and to the founders of Hindostan. It might be
                    noted that McCarty himself was committed to the hard work indicative of the spirit of commerce, but
                    little in his life suggests a willingness to take the personal risks he believed to be socially
                    desirable. When writing about his heroes of commerce, McCarty often did not know enough about an
                    event to reconstruct it with certainty. He thus picked from a variety of plausible motives and
                    explanations and in the process sometimes either distorted or simplified events as they are
                    understood today. McCarty'S articles are therefore more important because they reveal
                    something about the author himself than because they are factual, objective historical accounts.
            McCarty'S first hero, John Anthony (1802-1886), was born in 
                  Shelbyville, Kentucky
               . As a young man Anthony moved to New 
                        Albany
                    , Indiana, where he worked as a shoemaker. A few years after his marriage he moved his
                    family to the Martin County village of Mount Pleasant where he spent many years farming and where he
                    helped to organize one of the first county schools. Later, Anthony purchased a farm near Shoals and
                    gave part of his land for the building of a one-room schoolhouse. McCarty failed to report that in
                    the 1840s Anthony was fined for "vending spirits without a license."43
            
            Apparently Anthony made a total of three attempts at flying and "ended his [flying]
                    career" in 1886.44 Historical records, unfortunately vague on the
                    technical nature of his flying machines, do at least document the fact that he did build them:
                    "He secured some cheese cloth and other materials and draped them about his arms and legs
                    and tried to fly from a tree, which he climbed to the very top. The attempt resulted in a fall and
                    some broken bones."45 Probably McCarty never saw Anthony'S
                    flying machine(s), but he certainly had the opportunity to talk to many people who had been
                    acquainted with the erstwhile aviator; in fact, many were still alive 
                  
                     42 Carlos McCarty, "Tempus Fugit," Martin County Tribune, May 26, 1932.
                  
                     43 Holt, History of Martin County, 166.
                  
                     44 "More About Darius Green and his Flying Machine,"
                            Loogootee Tribune, November 29, 1951.
                  
                     45 "Proof that Grandfather of Local Resident was a Father of
                            Aviation," ibid., November 15, 1951.
               
                     when McCarty wrote about Anthony on June 16, 1927.46 Apparently, Anthony had considered building an airplance as early as 1875. He
                    never actually appeared at a fair held in Loogootee in the autumn of 1881, at which a public
                    demonstration of flying was to be one of the main attractions, because a few days before it opened
                    he was injured jumping from his barn roof during a trial run.47 A joke printed
                    in a county history is typical of the local humor recorded in McCarty'S column:
                    "While Anthony was recovering from the crash, it is said that a half-wit wanted to know
                    what caused the failure. When the injured man explained that he did not know, as he used his wings
                    exactly like the buzzards, the person meekly inquired, ‘Did you spread your
                        tail?'"48
            
            From McCarty'S point of view Anthony was inspiring because of his idealism, his personal
                    initiative, and his willingness to take risks. McCarty'S ideas about the origin of
                    inventions were not unlike the views of the nineteenth century French sociologist Gabriel Tarde.
                    Generally ignoring the influence of broad social factors, both saw inventions as the work of
                    exceptional individuals; both feared 
                  
                     46 The June 16, 1927, issue of the Martin County
                            Tribune is apparently no longer extant; it was, however, available in the 1950s when a
                            history of Martin County was being written. McCarty'S article prompted some readers
                            to give him additional technical information: "Wm. H. Batchelor lived a near
                            neighbor [to Anthony] and he says the machine was mounted on four wheels, the modern ones
                            mounted on two; and that it had a platform where Anthony was to sit during flights, and had
                            wings at each side and a tail, similar in principle like the Spirit of Saint Louis, which
                            was used by Lindbergh in his ocean flight. No motive power was provided by Anthony other
                            than such manipulations as he could make himself." Martin County Tribune, June 23,
                            1927. Batchelor'S comments were quoted in McCarty'S list of news items.
                            According to the Martin County death records, John Anthony died in Loogootee, Indiana, on
                            January 5, 1886, at the age of eighty-three years and four months. The cause of death is
                            listed as "congestion of the lungs," and he died "after an
                            illness of ten days." No mention is made of his work as a farmer. Instead, the
                            entry for occupation reads "worked at flying machine." It has not been
                            possible to discover the place of burial, but Anthony was possibly buried beside his wife in
                            an unmarked grave in St. John'S Cemetery in Loogootee. Death Records, IX, 52,
                            record 315, office of Dr. Donald Beemblossom, Shoals.
                  
                     47 The Shoals, Indiana, Martin County Herald of
                            September 1, 1881, includes three scattered references to Anthony'S anticipated
                            participation in the fair: "The overshadowing attraction [at the fair] will be John
                            Anthony'S flying machine. He will fly beyond doubt." "A continual
                            stream of people could be seen last Sunday, visiting Uncle John Anthony'S
                            artificial bird." "There is big talk at 
                                Washington
                             [Indiana] to attend the fair to see Uncle Anthony flap his wings, and fly over
                            the trees. We will be there; won't you?"
                  
                     48 Holt, History of Martin County, 103. In 1951 another journalist
                            retold the story of John Anthony, quoting a letter from a woman who remembered him from her
                            childhood: "I was about ten years of age at the time and we school children had a
                            lot of fun with Mr. Anthony'S ‘Buzzard,’ as we loved to call
                            his machine, which was constructed of heavy cotton material. We worked hard helping him get
                            it started down the incline, which he built for that purpose, and it was grand riding on the
                            track. The efforts were not entirely in vain, for we got a great thrill helping him to make
                            it fly. Although very young at the time I remember distinctly that it flapped its wings four
                            times before crashing. I often heard Mr. Anthony say ‘Some day people will be
                            flying through the air like birds.‘" Quoted in Loogootee Tribune, November 29, 1951.
               
                     that innovative people were constrained by interaction with
                    less daring and less imaginative friends and neighbors.49 Whether or not Anthony
                    actually had the traits that McCarty attributed to him is questionable. Anthony did indeed have the
                    courage to stand up to public ridicule, but since he lacked the most rudimentary scientific
                    sophistication, he emerged from the historical record more as a person engaged in a rather
                    irrational quest than a bona fide example of the spirit of commerce. That aspect of the story
                    McCarty downplayed, and he also did not appear to be concerned about the propriety of an
                    eighty-year-old man publicly engaging in dangerous stunts. Perhaps he did not know
                    Anthony'S exact age.
            The ideological elements in McCarty'S presentation of local history emerge more dramatically
                    in his writings on Hindostan. Founded about 1818 or 1819, Hindostan was abandoned in the mid-1820s.
                    Its promising future was cut short when a large number of its inhabitants were killed by a
                    "plague" of unknown origin. The remaining citizens left, and the town fell into
                    ruins. It is not known whether they all left at once or whether Hindostan gradually became a ghost
                    town. The former opinion predominates in folklore; the latter has appeared more plausible to some
                        historians.50
            
            According to an 1826 gazetteer Hindostan contained "100 inhabitants, 2 stores, two taverns,
                    1 blacksmith, 1 cabinetmaker, one saddler, 1 wagon maker, 1 mill Wright, 2 shoemekers [sic], 2
                    tailors, and one carpenter."51 Another source estimated that the
                    maximum population of the town was perhaps five hundred.52 Plats of Hindostan
                    survive, but one cannot distinguish between what was planned and what was actually developed.
                    Several travelers noted their visits to the city, and a public speech given in Hindostan on July 4,
                    1821, was recently republished. McCarty would not have had access to the original oration, however,
                    since only one copy, in 
                  
                     49 Terry N. Clark, ed., Gabriel Tarde on Communication
                                and Social Influence (
                                Chicago
                            , 1969), 19-36.
                  
                     50 For bibliographical and documentary information on Hindostan see
                            Dr. M. A. Ward, "An Oration Pronounced at Hindostan, Martin Co. (I[ndian]a) on the
                            45th Anniversary of American Independence," ed. William Barlow and David O. Powell,
                                Indiana Magazine of History,LXXIV (June, 1978). 135n. Not cited by
                            Barlow and Powell is J. W. Porter to James 
                                Brown
                             Ray, governor of Indiana, Hindostan, December 9, 1825, in Messages
                                and Papers relating to the Administration of James 
                                    Brown
                                 Ray, Governor of Indiana, 1825-1831, ed. Dorothy Riker and Gayle
                            Thornbrough (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XXXIV; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1954), 100. See also Kate Milner Rabb, The Diary of John Parsons
                                of Petersburg, 
                                    Virginia
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1928), 358-59. Although Rabb'S account is fictional, it provides some
                            understanding of the Hindostan community.
                  
                     51 John Scott, The Indiana Gazetteer or Topographical
                                Dictionary (1826; reprint, Indiana Historical Society
                            Publications, Vol. XVIII, No. 1; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1954), 128.
                  
                     52 Mrs. John 
                                Wise
                             to Thomas J. Brooks, November 6, 1872, in "Hindostan, Greenwich and
                            Mt. Pleasant. The Pioneer Towns of Martin County—Memoirs of Thomas Jefferson
                            Brooks," ed. George R. Wilson, Indiana Magazine of History, XVI
                            (December, 1920), 291-92.
               
                    
                    
                        Massachusetts
                    , is thought to be extant.53 Two business letters and the Hindostan
                    postmark survive, but so far as is known no personal correspondence nor any autobiographical
                    material. It appears to be impossible to describe with certainty the personality of a single
                    inhabitant except Malthus Ward, the July the 4th orator.
            Frontier people have often been presented in literature as outcasts, shady characters, or illiterate,
                    simple backwoodsmen. A recent example is Scott R. Sanders'S Wilderness
                    Plots, which consists of vignettes based upon real characters from the frontier period of the
                        Ohio Valley.54 The frontier as a heroic experience is
                    also a major theme in Sanders'S writings, but he, unlike McCarty, balances this positive
                    message with a gallery of deviant characters: alcoholics, corrupt government officials, arsonists,
                    whites who behave more savagely than Indians. In McCarty'S interpretation, as stated in two
                    articles dated 1914 and 1929, the founders of frontier Hindostan were not only "bold
                    pioneers" but "well to do men, businessmen in the fullest sense." The man
                    McCarty called the "prime mover" in the corporation formed by the founders was a
                    tavern owner, Frederick Sholts. Although Sholts'S occupation might be interpreted by some
                    as reinforcing the negative stereotype of backwoodsmen, McCarty saw the tavern as "one of
                    the well known houses of entertainment which was established along the trail between 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        Vincennes
                    ."55
            
            McCarty described Hindostan as being "in the full vigor and growth of a lusty young frontier
                    town." For McCarty this phrase implied commerical activity, and he cited as youthful vigor
                    the "sophistication" of the mills and the business establishments. Also referring
                    to business, he wrote of the "general awakening that was occurring over the entire
                    frontier." McCarty'S search in local county records for information about
                    Hindostan'S founders reinforced his belief in the grassroots respectability of these men.
                    They were not, as he did not expect them to be, migrant gypsies who left no written trace. Further,
                    "Deed Record Number One" in the county records showed all of them to be
                    native-born American.56
            
            The founders of the new town referred to themselves as the "Proprietors of
                    Hindostan." Although McCarty did not comment on 
                  
                     53 Ward, "An Oration Pronounced at Hindostan." See
                            also William Barlow and David Powell, "Malthus A. Ward: Frontier Physician,
                            1815-1823," Journal of the History of Medicine and Allied
                            Sciences, XXXII (July, 1977), 280-91; William Barlow and David Powell,
                            "‘The Late Dr. Ward of Indiana': Rafinesque'S Source
                            of the Walam Olum," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXII (June,
                            1986), 185-93.
                  
                     54 Scott R. Sanders, Wilderness Plots: Tales about the
                                Settlement of the American Land (
                                New York
                            , 1983).
                  
                     55 McCarty, "Hindostan"; quotation is from Carlos
                            McCarty, "Hindostan'S Founders," Martin County
                                Tribune, October 3, 1929.
                  
                     56
                            Ibid.; quotation is from McCarty, "Hindostan," 60. See
                            also Deed Record, I, March, 1819-April, 1832, Martin County Courthouse, Shoals,
                        Indiana.
               
                     the name, it does have an epic quality and is presumed to be a
                    mispronunciation of the Indian state of Hindustan.57 Had the founders chosen
                    another name, such as the "Proprietors of Black Creek" or the
                    "Proprietors of French Lick," the imagery would have been less grand. McCarty
                    wrote of "their dreams of a great city." The town'S name can indeed be
                    seen as fitting that description. In McCarty'S view these men were goal-directed; they came
                    together not by accident but with the explicit intention of laying out a new town. Considering the
                    poor communications of the era, he thought readers should be amazed that the group ever managed to
                    form. "When we look back a century and ten years ago, and consider how inadequate were
                    means of communication, how difficult it was to get people together who lived far apart we may well
                    wonder how this Hindostan company came to be organized."58
            
            When Martin County was organized in 1820, Hindostan became its county seat, and one of the activities
                    of the new county commissioners was establishing prices, specifically those for tavern keepers.
                    McCarty believed that the pioneers tolerated such government intervention in the economy only
                    because there were so few laws restricting their freedom, not because they were any less independent
                    than their descendants. "Think what an uproar would be the result if the commissioners of
                    Martin county at their next session should endeavor to regulate prices in this method. But our
                    forefathers were of sturdy stock. They did not have so much law to confront them as we now
                        have."59 Once again, he insisted on the pioneers' natural
                    strength and goodness; they did not need laws to do what was right.
            The official end of Hindostan was symbolized by the county seat'S being moved to another
                    town. "The sun had set for Hindostan," McCarty wrote. He made an analogy between
                    the trials of the ancient Hebrews and the plight of Hindostan, saying that the streets of the town
                    "echoed to the wail of Rachel weeping for her children." Finally, he presented the
                    pioneers as heroes taken to heaven. They had "left this mundane sphere and taken their
                    places in that city eternal, that celestial community .... Their battle is over, their victory is
                        won."60
            
            Since McCarty died in 1934, only his reaction to the early years of the Depression can be noted.
                    Certainly these years seemed to have strengthened his propensity to look backward for guidance
                    concerning the future. Initially, McCarty'S stubborn optimism was unshaken, and he saw no
                    reason to alter his views on the economy. Any tendency to doubt the promise of free enterprise was
                    tempered 
                  
                     57 Holt, History of Martin County, 28.
                  
                     58 McCarty, "Hindostan'S Founders."
                  
                     59 McCarty, "Hindostan," 58.
                  
                     60
                            Ibid., 60, 61-62.
               
                     by his historical consciousness: he knew of many other crises
                    in American history. Since they were all eventually solved, he could see no reason to expect that
                    the current crisis would be different. 
                        The drought of 1881 affected … [southern Indiana], yet a year or so later but
                            little evidence was visible of the suffering and loss. The dry weather of 1901 also hit
                            Southern Indiana below the belt, but she came up smiling before she was counted out. And now
                            the combined efforts of panic, depression, flood, ice, hot weather, drought, bean bugs and
                            everything else are not going to leave her in as bad shape as people sometimes fear. Count
                            on southern Indiana to come to the front regardless of her losses and suffering. There is
                            always a better time coming and it generally gets here on schedule.61
                  
                     Following the drought of 1930, however, the specter of death from starvation and
                    malnutrition appeared in McCarty'S column. "This is war," he wrote,
                    "war against hunger and misfortune, and disease. It needs active fighters as does a war
                    whose object is destruction. This is a war for the salvation of humanity … ."62 By the autumn of 1931 a mood of despair could be detected in the examples of
                    poverty brought to McCarty'S attention: a truck driver did not think either of the two
                    families that he had just moved had any food at home; certain parents had no money to buy school
                    lunches. The solution McCarty offered, self-reliance and help from the Red Cross, was not very
                    practical. He considered the Red Cross the most appropriate agency to deal with the crisis; his
                    earlier prejudice against government assistance remained. "There is little need to wait for
                    assistance from legislative bodies or their various committees. If that is all there is in sight for
                    the suffering people, they need God'S pity for their condition and the helplessness of the
                        future."63
            
            In the early 1930s McCarty showed more strongly than before a tendency to promote modernization in
                    terms of pioneer values. In particular he lauded nineteenth century self-reliance. "Looking
                    back we cannot help pitying these folks [the pioneers] in their isolation, but that very isolation
                    was good, from it developed the strongest type of men and women America has ever produced. Maybe a
                    little more isolation and dependence on self effort would be good in these days."64 One custom he wanted to revive was the practice of lending money to
                    neighbors, which, he said, would give everyone a personal stake in community prosperity. Attacking
                    mail order houses in 
                        Chicago
                     for taking money out of the hands of local retailers, he encouraged readers to trade at
                    home. Do not build up other communities at your own expense, he urged. He regretted, as well, the
                    frequency with which modern investors bought national and international 
                  
                     61 Carlos McCarty, "Random Notes," Martin County Tribune, July 24, 1930.
                  
                     62 Carlos McCarty, "The Red Cross," ibid., January 22, 1931.
                  
                            63
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     64 Carlos McCarty, "1833-34," ibid., December 28, 1933.
               
                     stocks and bonds, thus diverting funds from local
                    entrepreneurs. Such an opinion was consistent with views that McCarty expressed in the 1920s. In May
                    of 1920, for example, he wrote that large industrial centers were "unnatural" and
                    their growth detrimental to the rest of the country.65 A few years later, in
                    1932, he forecast a decentralized economy, home-owned and operated industries spread over the
                    country rather than concentrated in a handful of cities.66 Also in 1920, in an
                    article entitled "Greatness or Bigness," he reminded readers that the quality of
                    life was not dependent upon the size of the city that one inhabited.67
            
            Whenever McCarty wrote about contemporary conditions, he assumed that there were two conflicting
                    approaches to economic involvement: the spirit of commerce, which few people adhered to, and the
                    more common pattern of economic traditionalism. When he wrote about the past, however, he
                    consistently underestimated the prevalence of traditionalism. McCarty looked to the past for human
                    qualities that he believed to be rare in his day. Most likely, they were as rare in the Martin
                    County of his parents' time.
            McCarty'S statements on economic issues could be interpreted as evidence of the conservatism
                    that Tocqueville believed characteristic of the legal profession. According to the Frenchman,
                    lawyers occupied a central role in the public life of democratic nations. Once the aristocracy had
                    been rejected as natural leaders, lawyers came to replace them, largely due to their occupational
                    skills; and lawyers, already influential, had little to gain by being innovative.68 Although at first glance, McCarty appears to deviate from this pattern since he was in fact
                    promoting social change, as far as the country as a whole was concerned, McCarty'S values
                    were not innovative. McCarty'S writings, however, do not bear out Tocque-ville'S
                    claim that values described in his book would be widely shared by democratic nations in the future.
                    If McCarty'S column is to be believed, in Martin County, and probably in most of southern
                    Indiana, the values inherent in the spirit of commerce were apparently held by only a minority of
                    the population a century after Tocqueville'S visit.
            
               
                  65 Carlos McCarty, "Industrial Centers," ibid., May 13, 1920.
               
                  66 Carlos McCarty, "Some Old-fashioned Prosperity," ibid., March 3, 1932.
               
                  67 Carlos McCarty, "Greatness or Bigness," ibid., May 27, 1920.
               
                  68 Tocqueville, Democracy in America, 103-107.
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Lessons on the Northwest Ordinance of 1787: Learning Materials for Secondary School
                        Courses in American History, Government, and Civics. By John J. Patrick. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Committee for the Humanities; Indiana Historical Bureau; Social Studies
                    Development Center, 1987. Pp. vii, 84. Maps, notes, illustrations, figures, tables, appendix, select
                    bibliography. Paperbound, $10.00.)
            Leading American historians and statesmen (including Daniel Webster, Abraham Lincoln, Theodore
                    Roosevelt, 
                        Franklin
                     D. Roosevelt, Ray Allen Billington, and Daniel J. Boorstin) have considered the
                    Northwest Ordinance of 1787 one of the foremost state papers of the 
                        United States
                    . John J. Patrick describes it as "a brillant policy for governing a vast area
                    north and west of the Ohio River—a liberal and innovative plan for
                    colonial administration and national development" (p. 1). He further states, "The
                    Northwest Ordinance is indisputably at the core of the American civic heritage, one of the most
                    important political legacies we have" (p. 2).
            Granted, the Northwest Ordinance is one of this country'S basic documents, often grouped in
                    company with the Declaration of Independence, the Constitution, and a few other very select state
                    papers of the 
                        United States
                    . Sadly, this select company has not assured the inclusion of its study in American
                    history, government, and civics courses in secondary schools. When it appears in textbooks and
                    curriculum guides, the coverage is often meager. It is not surprising that, although the nation was
                    celebrating the bicentennial of the Northwest Ordinance in 1987, most citizens seemed to know very
                    little about the ordinance. The bicentennial was an opportune time for students to acquire greater
                    knowledge and understanding of the important ideas of this basic document. The need for learning
                    materials on the Northwest Ordinance has been successfully met in the fine set of lessons under
                    review here.
            The teaching plans and learning materials in this volume have been designed to supplement standard
                    secondary school courses in American history, government, and civics. By adapting the length of the
                    reading assignments and providing more extensive directions in completing the lessons, the material
                    can also be made appropriate for middle school/junior high students. The main goals of the lessons
                    are to help students to: (1) know the origins and purposes of the Northwest Ordinance; (2)
                    comprehend civic principles and values of the Northwest Ordinance; (3) know how and 
                    
                  SEAL OF THE TERRITORY OF THE UNITED
                                STATES NORTHWEST OF THE RIVER
                                OHIO
                  
                  Courtesy Indiana Historical Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
               
                    
                  SEAL OF THE STATE OF INDIANA
                  
                  Courtesy Indiana Historical Bureau, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
               
                     when Americans used principles and values of the Northwest
                    Ordinance in statemaking and national development; (4) understand the significance of the Northwest
                    Ordinance in the history and civic culture of the 
                        United States
                    ; (5) analyze and appraise ideas in the Northwest Ordinance and other primary sources
                    associated with it; (6) develop skill in using evidence in primary sources to support propositions
                    about people and events in 
                        United States
                     history; and (7) develop reasons for commitment to civic values embedded in the
                    Northwest Ordinance (p. 3).
            The material selected and prepared by Patrick has many strengths. The lessons are compatible with the
                    curriculum and general objectives of secondary schools. Teachers are provided with ideas and
                    materials that can be used to extend and enrich the usually brief treatment of the Northwest
                    Ordinance in secondary textbooks. The lessons, each of which can be completed in one or two class
                    meetings, are concise, with a clear statement of purposes and well-organized subject matter.
                    Accountability is inherently a part of the lessons since the learning activities require that
                    students demonstrate achievement of the objectives around which the content is structured.
                    Skill-oriented, the lessons involve the students in a wide range of cognitive operations, moving
                    from recall and comprehension to the higher levels of interpretation, analysis, synthesis, and
                    evaluation. The lessons utilize both oral and written experiences, often calling upon students to
                    provide evidence and reasons to support a position that they have taken.
            Teachers should consider these nine lessons on the Northwest Ordinance as a pool of resources. They
                    may select one or several of the lessons to go with the content of a textbook, or they may decide to
                    use all of the nine as part of a special unit on the Northwest Ordinance. Although each lesson can
                    be used alone, it is also possible to teach two or more in combination. All of the necessary
                    materials and a teaching plan for each lesson are included, but the intent is to present suggestions
                    rather than to be prescriptive. Teachers are encouraged to adapt the lessons to fit their own
                    classroom situations and teaching styles.
            Teachers will appreciate the time-saving ease with which they can prepare for using the lessons. They
                    simply need to read the teaching plan and learning materials, make copies of the materials and
                    distribute them to the students, and follow or modify the teaching suggestions. The same clear
                    format is used throughout the lessons. The teaching plan identifies the main points of the lesson,
                    the connections of the lesson to secondary/junior high/middle school social studies, the objectives
                    of the lesson, and suggestions for opening, developing, and concluding the lesson. The learning
                    materials provide for a discussion of the main ideas of the topic, have excerpts from primary
                    sources, and conclude with activities that require students to use the main ideas and evidence found
                    in  the primary sources. (The full text of fifteen documents
                    related to the Northwest Ordinance is found in the Appendix, readily available for handy reference
                    or for use as additional reading assignments.)
            An overview of the nine lessons reveals a fine developmental plan for learning. The first lesson
                    basically describes the Northwest Territory, its location and its boundaries, and traces its origins
                    as part of the 
                        United States
                    . Thus, the context is set for examining the land distribution policies and the
                    governance of the Northwest Territory prior to the Ordinance of 1787. Lesson 2 emphasizes ideas that
                    led to the enactment of the 1787 Northwest Ordinance as students study the Ordinances of 1784 and
                    1785. In Lesson 3 students learn how the Northwest Ordinance was introduced into Congress, and of
                    the deliberation that took place there, and how the proposal was finally enacted. The fourth lesson
                    has students defining key terms and discussing and clarifying the main ideas of the document as they
                    address the question: what is the 1787 Northwest Ordinance? With Lesson 5 students continue to learn
                    about the ordinance by centering on the particular parts that relate to territorial government and
                    attainment of statehood. Lesson 6 focuses on the parts of the Northwest Ordinance that pertain to
                    civil liberties and rights. Students get involved in a study of state making in Lesson 7 as they
                    study the Northwest Ordinance and the time period 1803-1848. A collection of documents is used in
                    Lesson 8 to study Indiana'S road from territory to statehood and to serve as an
                    illustration of the fundamental importance of the Northwest Ordinance. Lesson 9, "Timetable
                    of Main Events Associated with the Enactment and Application of the Northwest Ordinance,"
                    helps students gain a historical perspective of major events relevant to the Northwest Ordinance.
            The lessons are enhanced by the excellent selection of illustrations, maps, and primary sources.
                    Among the illustrations are "The Seal of the Territory of the 
                        United States
                     Northwest of the River 
                        Ohio
                    "; portraits of George Rogers Clark, Nathan Dane, William Henry Harrison, and
                    others; and photographs of early buildings that have historical significance. The historical maps
                    have obviously been carefully chosen with specific purposes in mind. They are always text-related
                    and properly placed for optimum learning. The primary sources are an integral part of the lessons.
                    In "The Northwest Territory, 1776-1783," for example, students identify and
                    summarize the main ideas of four documents ("Patrick Henry'S Letter to George
                    Rogers Clark," "Resolution of Congress on Public Lands," "Treaty
                    of 
                        Paris
                    ," and "
                        Virginia
                     Act of Cession") in order to explain how each was related to the acquisition
                    of the Northwest Territory by the 
                        United States
                    .
            The concluding part of each lesson, "Reviewing and Reflecting on Facts and Ideas,"
                    is also praiseworthy. Students are involved in  identifying and
                    summarizing ideas, describing roles taken by specific individuals and comparing and contrasting
                    their views, analyzing and making judgments about information in a primary source, arranging major
                    events in chronological order, interpreting facts in a timetable to see relationships, and on and
                    on. Students not only define terms, they also give examples that fit the definitions, and they
                    explain how the terms are related to the Northwest Ordinance. There is no room here for sheer
                    regurgitation of facts. Higher-level thinking skills are being developed.
            Patrick'S contribution to the study of the Northwest Ordinance is a superb one. With this
                    excellent "classroom ready" set of lessons, teachers will have everything they
                    need to teach a knowledge and understanding of this basic document in America'S heritage.
            JOAN E. SCHREIBER is professor of history at Ball State
                    University, 
                        Muncie
                    , Indiana. She specializes in social science education and teaches social studies
                    methods.
         
         
            
               The Life and Times of Little Turtle: First Sagamore of the 
                            Wabash
                        . By Harvey Lewis Carter. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1987. Pp. xvii, 275. Illustrations, notes, maps, appendixes, bibliography,
                    index. $24.95.)
            Harvey Lewis Carter has written a much-needed biography of Little Turtle—one of the
                    greatest yet least known Indian leaders in American history. The author ably recounts the main
                    episodes in the life of this extraordinary Miami war chief. He explains how Little Turtle'S
                    leadership enabled the Miamis to turn back General Josiah Harmar'S army as it advanced into
                    the Old Northwest in 1790. He details Little Turtle'S role in an even more important battle
                    in 1791, when General Arthur St. Clair led yet another army into Indian country. Although
                    outnumbered, warriors from various tribes of the region, following Little Turtle'S
                    strategy, were able to rout St. Clair'S forces, killing 634 in the process—the
                    single greatest defeat American troops ever suffered at the hands of Indians. (To put it into
                    perspective, Custer and approximately 200 other soldiers died at the Battle of the Little Big Horn).
            Following St. Clair'S defeat, Little Turtle steered a path toward reconciliation with
                    whites. He played a reluctant role in opposing General Anthony 
                        Wayne
                    'S army as it advanced into Indian country in 1793-1794 and then helped bring
                    about a peace settlement at the Treaty of Greenville. From that point on Little Turtle, with the
                    help of his white son-in-law, advocated a gradual policy of civilization and assimilation for the
                    Indians. This moderate stance brought him into conflict with more militant Indians such as Tecumseh
                    as well as with single-minded white expansionists like William Henry Harrison, Indiana'S
                    territorial governor.
            Carter argues convincingly that had the Jeffersonians in charge of the federal government lived up to
                    their rhetoric and ideals, the  Indians' story in the
                    Old Northwest might have turned out for the better. As it was, the unbridled expansionism of
                    land-hungry whites undermined any hopes for peace and led to destructive Indian-white warfare before
                    and during the War of 1812.
            Although Carter'S book is well researched and written, it suffers from one of the main
                    problems inherent in writing Indian history and biographies. The Indian subject has left no written
                    accounts from which to work. As a result, as Carter himself admits in the preface, the
                    book'S "emphasis more often falls upon the times than upon the man" (p.
                    xii). Despite that drawback, Carter'S work is a fine addition to knowledge of American
                    Indian history, frontier history, and the history of Indiana.
            RICHARD AQUILA is professor of history, Ball State
                    University, 
                        Muncie
                    , Indiana. He is currently working on a study of Indians in the Old Northwest.
         
         
            
               Visions of Harmony: A Study in Nineteenth–Century Millenarianism. By
                    Anne Taylor. (
                        New York
                    : Clarendon Press/
                        Oxford
                     University Press, 1987. Pp. 285. Map, illustrations, notes, select bibliography, index.
                    $46.00.)
            The unique role played by 
                        New Harmony
                     as the site for two distinct attempts at utopia has attracted the attention of such
                    able scholars as Karl J. R. Arndt, Arthur Bestor, Donald E. Pitzer, and William E. Wilson. To their
                    works readers can add, with reservations, this book by Anne Taylor, previously the biographer of
                    Laurence Oliphant. Taylor'S particular strength lies in her portraits of George Rapp,
                    Robert Owen, William Maclure, Frances Wright, and a few of the other fantastic folk who dreamed of
                    an earthly heaven on the banks of the Wabash River. In general, she tells an
                    interesting tale rather well grounded in primary sources. Although she concentrates on the Owenite
                    period at 
                        New Harmony
                     between 1824 and 1828, her narrative extends from late-eighteenth century 
                        Germany
                     to mid-nineteenth century America by way of the British Isles, 
                        Philadelphia
                    , and 
                        Washington
                    , D. C.
            The most distinctive characteristic of Taylor'S work is its debunking tendency to explain
                    the behavior of men like Rapp and Owen principally in terms of egotism and self-interest. She
                    portrays Robert Owen, the central figure in the narrative, basically as "a speculative,
                    scheming, mischievious man"—the words of John 
                        Quincy
                     Adams used as the title of her fourth chapter—who misrepresented his
                    administration at New Lanark and who at 
                        New Harmony
                     seemed mainly interested in turning other people'S dreams into ready cash for
                    himself. In her tenth chapter, "The Lord Proprietor"—a title also
                    derived from one of Owen'S many critics—she attributes his disastrous decision
                    to rush the infant experiment prematurely into its mature stage to his desire to force a profitable
                         sale of his 
                        New Harmony
                     property on the people he had attracted there.
            There is some certainty in the belief that even the greatest man is made of common clay, particularly
                    when the man was as egotistical and self-deceiving as Owen. Taylor'S research has furnished
                    some support for her views, most notably the conclusions of Owen'S numerous critics and
                    enemies. They are, however, only partial truths. What is missing here is any evident appreciation of
                    the thoughts and dreams that gave men like Owen their direction and power. Contrary to its title,
                    this book is not about "visions of harmony," nor is it a study of millenarianism
                    in the nineteenth century or any other time. Rapp'S mysticism and his vision of the Second
                    Coming receive little notice, and there is even less attention given to Owen'S not entirely
                    fatuous hopes of creating a New Moral World from the pains and promises of the industrial
                    revolution.
            In general, Taylor'S reductionism sheds only the dimmest light on the very influences that
                    brought 
                        New Harmony
                     into existence and gave it significance. To those who see history merely as intelligent
                    entertainment, this book will have considerable appeal; to those who look to the past for
                    understanding, however, it will likely yield only a marginal return. 
                        New Harmony
                     and the visions which made it deserve something better.
            EDWARD, K SPANN is professor of history, Indiana State
                    University, 
                        Terre Haute
                    . His forthcoming book, Brotherly Tomorrows: Movements for a Cooperative
                        Society in the 
                            United States
                        , 1820-1920, has several chapters relating to 
                        New Harmony
                     and to Robert Owen. Spann will soon be completing a book on the history of the Hopedale
                    Community in 
                        Massachusetts
                     between 1840 and 1870.
         
         
            
               History of the Thirteenth Indiana Cavalry Regiment, 1863–1865. By
                    John W. Powell. (Utica, Ky.: McDowell Publications, 1987. Pp. 119. Illustrations, maps, notes,
                    appendixes, index. Paper-bound, $11.50.)
            Organized in April, 1864, the Thirteenth Indiana Cavalry was the last cavalry regiment raised in
                    Indiana during the Civil War. It saw action in northern 
                        Alabama
                    , middle 
                        Tennessee
                    , the Battle of 
                        Nashville
                    , and the campaign to capture Mobile. The cavalrymen spent their final months of service
                    as occupation troops in 
                        Mississippi
                     where the regiment was mustered out in November, 1865.
            This history is largely a compilation of published reports describing the actions in which the
                    Thirteenth Indiana participated. Although the author'S grandfather, William Powell, was a
                    private in the Thirteenth, the book tells little of the soldier experience. Perhaps unpublished
                    letters or diaries were not available. One such diary of a Sergeant Albert Alyea is cited on page
                    104 of the appendix, but no quotations from it appear in the text. Some previously  unpublished materials from the regiment'S records in the
                    National Archives were included. Also a complete roster of enlisted men and officers appears on
                    pages 67.98.
            The Thirteenth Indiana was very active although its term of service was of shorter duration than the
                    older Indiana cavalry regiments. The book will be a valuable addition to Indiana Civil War
                    collections since it brings together a complete record of the unit'S service and personnel.
            JOHN W. ROWELL retired as corporate historian of Cummins
                    Engine Company, 
                        Columbus
                    , Indiana, in 1982. He is the author of Yankee Artillerymen: Through the
                        Civil War with Eli Lilly'S Indiana Battery (
                        Knoxville
                    : University of 
                        Tennessee
                     Press, 1975) and Yankee Cavalrymen: Through the Civil War with the Ninth 
                            Pennsylvania
                         Cavalry (
                        Knoxville
                    : University of 
                        Tennessee
                     Press, 1971).
         
         
            
               Iron Monuments to Distant Posterity: Indiana'S Metal Bridges,
                        1870–1930. By James L. Cooper. With An Evaluation of
                        Indiana'S Metal Bridges as Cultural Resources. By Richard A. Gantz. (N.p.: Depauw
                    University, 
                        Greencastle
                    ; Federal Highway Administration; Indiana Department of Highways; Indiana Department of
                    Natural Resources; National Park Service, Department of the Interior, 1987. Pp. vii, 212.
                    Illustrations, figures, inventory of bridges, notes. Paperbound, $7.50, plus
                    $1.25 postage.)
            In 1987 James L. Cooper of Depauw University began a history of Indiana'S bridges and bridge
                    builders while simultaneously preparing an inventory of the surviving structures. This volume
                    summarizes the results of his labors. In Part One, "Public Policy and Private
                    Initiative" (pp. 1-40), Cooper presents a historical overview of the role of bridges in the
                    state'S development, the economic and political issues embodied in bridge construction, and
                    the history of Indiana'S metal bridge fabricators. The section on bridge builders includes
                    lengthy treatment of the Indiana Bridge Company and the Gary plant of the American Bridge Company
                    along with capsule histories of eleven other Hoosier bridge companies.
            The second major segment, "Designing and Fabricating the Hoosier Heritage" (pp.
                    41-109), delineates the types of metal bridges surviving within the state, including truss, arch,
                    girder, suspension, cantilever, and movable spans. Cooper describes the design characteristics of
                    each type of metal bridge as well as the history of each metal bridge type in Indiana. Most of this
                    segment concerns truss bridges, easily the dominant form of metal bridge construction.
            Part Three, "An Inventory of Metal Spans" (pp. 110-201), consists of capsule
                    listings of 1,700 surviving metal bridges built before 1930. The listings are arranged by county and
                    include the following information: the bridge number assigned by the state or 
                    
                  KIDNER BRIDGE OVER THE MISSISSINEWA
                                RIVER IN GRANT COUNTY CONSTRUCTED BY THE INDIANA BRIDGE
                                COMPANY OF MUNCIE IN 1899
                  Photograph by James L Cooper
               
                     county; the bridge name, the facility carried, and the feature
                    spanned; the number of spans, the bridge type, the builder, and the date built; unusual features;
                    and a historical assessment or rating. Numerous photographs included in this segment mitigate the
                    boredom inherent in a list of this sort.
            Richard A. Gantz of the Indiana Division of Historic Preservation and Archaeology wrote the last
                    segment, "An Evaluation of Indiana'S Metal Bridges as Cultural Resources"
                    (pp. 202-209). He outlines the bridge preservation program which grew out of the statewide bridge
                    inventory, including a numerical rating system developed to assess the historical significance of
                    the surviving bridges. However, the relationship between the numerical rating system and the
                    categorical assessment assigned to each bridge in the inventory is not explained. Bridge enthusiasts
                    would also like to know the fate of the timber, stone, and concrete bridges presumably included in
                    the statewide bridge inventory but not discussed in this volume.
            This book would be a more useful reference tool if it had a map of Indiana, showing counties and
                    major rivers. An index is sorely needed as well. This reviewer looked in vain for summary
                    tables— arranged by type, age, length, and fabricator—of the 1,700 bridges
                    inventoried. These caveats aside, this study is an important contribution to the history of metal
                    bridge design and construction in Indiana and in the Great Lakes region.
            CHARLES K. HYDE is professor of history, 
                        Wayne
                     State University, 
                        Detroit
                    . He completed an assessment of 
                        Michigan
                    'S historic highway bridges for the 
                        Michigan
                     Department of Transportation and the 
                        Michigan
                     Bureau of History in 1984-1985.
         
         
            
               Letters from Honeyhill: A Woman'S View of Homesteading,
                        1914–1931. By Cecilia Hennel Hendricks; compiled and edited by Cecilia Hendricks
                    Wahl. (Boulder, Colo.: Pruett Publishing Company, 1986. Pp. ix, 704. Illustrations, index.
                    $22.95.)
            When a young woman writes letters to her family at the rate of one or two a day for several years and
                    asks that these intimate letters be saved in manila folders, one might suspect that the writer was
                    extraordinarily devoted to her relatives or that she hoped that the letters might someday compose a
                    book. In the case of Cecilia Hennel Hendricks both suppositions are true. In Letters
                        From Honey Hill: A Woman'S View of Homesteading, Hendricks reveals that she is a
                    devoted daughter but that she also has writing aspirations. Hendricks would be pleased with this
                    book, a compilation of her letters ably put together by her daughter, Cecilia Hendricks Wahl.
            A well-educated woman, Cecilia Hennel Hendricks left her home in 
                        Bloomington
                     and her Indiana teaching career to become an efficient homesteader, wife, and mother.
                    In later years she returned to Indiana to teach, eventually becoming a distinguished 
                    
                  JOHN AND CECILIA HENDRICKS ON THEIR WEDDING DAY, DECEMBER, 30, 1913
               
                    
                  CECILIA HENDRICKS CHASES A CALF AWAY FROM NEWLY PLANTED TREE IN FRONT OF HER FIRST HOME ON THE PLAINS
                            OF WYOMING
                  
                  Courtesy Cecilia Hendricks Wahl.
               
                     alumna of Indiana University. Her letters chronicle the life
                    journey. This book, however, is more than a collection of Hendricks'S correspondence. It is
                    a history of homestead life in the northern plains of Wyoming; it reaffirms that hard work and
                    American know-how pay off; it is a love story—the author had seen her husband only three
                    times before the wedding, and the couple'S growing devotion unfolds in the letters. The
                    book is also a glimpse of Indiana University and 
                        Bloomington
                     as they grow parallel with the author'S growing family.
            A woman of determination, Hendricks emphasizes in her letters the homesteader'S daily need
                    to cope with the present with a dose of reflection on the past. She seems to have no fear of the
                    future. She offers matter-of-fact, sometimes hair-raising accounts of the dentistry, family
                    illnesses, and childbirth of the era. Readers glimpse the political climate of a country just
                    opening the doors to women in politics. "… Cox is a real man … and
                    Harding is about the biggest policy shark that you could find in the U. S… . I wonder if
                    he ever had an original thought" (p. 320).
            This collection of letters, however, is not a chronicle of hardship and pioneer struggles. It is a
                    cozy book. The letters are appealingly written, and reading them is like wrapping oneself in a
                    comforter and listening to kitchen conversation about food and recipes, housekeeping hints, the ups
                    and downs of the neighbors, money troubles, fashions, politics, the weather, and entertainment.
                    "This radio is certainly a wonder … we knew by 4:30 that Indiana got beat by
                    Northwestern. Isn't it marvelous to know these things as soon as the people who are
                    actually there?" (p. 637). The tale'S sweetner is honey. Cecilia and John
                    Hendricks chose to set up a beekeeping and honey business on their homestead. Honey drips
                    everywhere, and beekeeping tips and facts abound. All frontier experiences, of course, were not as
                    full of the joy of life as those of the Hendrickses. Yet such was the sweetness of pioneer life for
                    this fortunate family that whipped cream for breakfast was an ordinary occurrence.
            And our final thought as we put the book down is one of gratefulness: social history has been made
                    palatable. We have learned and we have enjoyed the learning.
            JOYCE G. WILLIAMS is professor and associate program
                    director of continuing education, Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    . She is currently working with the papers of Woodrow Wilson and has just completed a
                    study of Wilson'S third secretary of state, Bainbridge Colby.
         
         
            
               Steel City: Urban and Ethnic Patterns in Gary, Indiana, 1906–1950. By
                    Raymond A. Mohl and Neil Betten. (
                        New York
                    : Holmes & Meier, 1986. Pp. x, 227. Maps, tables, illustrations, note on
                    sources, notes, index. Clothbound, $32.50; paperbound, $23.50.)
            
               Steel City examines patterns of immigrant adjustment in Gary, Indiana, by focusing
                    on major institutions such as 
                        United States
                    
                    
                    
                  EMERSON SCHOOL METAL SHOP, ABOUT 1915 INTRODUCED TO INDUSTRIAL
                                ARTS AT A VERY EARLY AGE, CHILDREN WERE OFTEN DWARFED BY THE MACHINERY
                  
               
                    
                  SERBIAN-AMERICAN BASKETBALL TEAM, 1940-1941 REPRESENTING GARY'S ST. SAVA ORTHODOX CHURCH AND THE SERBIAN NATIONAL FEDERATION
                  
                  Courtesy Calumet Regional Archives, Gary
               
                     Steel Corporation, the settlement houses, public school system,
                    and immigrant churches and exploring their promotion of assimilation or cultural pluralism. While a
                    wide range of secondary sources are used, the research is based primarily on the records of these
                    institutions. One wishes the authors had also chosen to examine the local labor unions, the only
                    other major group with such heavy immigrant involvement.
            The evidence presented in the book basically substantiates the conclusions that are drawn. 
                        United States
                     Steel Corporation dominated the city and dictated the pattern of race and ethnic
                    relations. The Gary public schools, in "Americanizing" immigrant children,
                    inculcated them with racism through discriminatory practices in schools in racially mixed
                    neighborhoods. Under the guise of "progressive education" Gary developed a school
                    system that offered black and immigrant children less academic and more vocational education,
                    stressing especially the values of business enterprise and the work ethic. Settlement houses
                    connected with local churches were similarly paternalistic, denigrating immigrant culture and
                    encouraging quick assimilation. The International Institute, however, respected immigrant culture,
                    encouraged its survival, provided space for cultural events, and staffed its agency with immigrants.
                    The ethnic churches stood with the International Institute on the side of cultural pluralism.
            The strength of the book lies in its explication of the relations between immigrant groups and the
                    urban institutions under consideration; its weakness is too little discussion of immigrant
                    interactions with each other. 
                        United States
                     Steel'S efforts to pit various European immigrant groups against one another
                    during the 1919 strike are overlooked. The degree of fraternization between blacks and European
                    immigrants in the early years is underestimated, as is the degree of black protest throughout the
                    years. The formation of a black ghetto was a somewhat slower process than indicated. Polarization of
                    the black community between integrationists and Garveyites is oversimplified. There is a good
                    discussion of Mexican "repatriation" during the depression, a little information
                    on relations between Mexican and European immigrants, but no discussion of black-Mexican relations.
                    While some of these topics might require extensive interviewing, more information is available than
                    was utilized in the published sources that the authors consulted.
            Nevertheless, the book is well written and provides valuable information about the immigrants and
                    their interactions with many Gary institutions. Parts of the book, particularly the chapter on the
                    Gary schools and the Wirt system, are both bold and brilliant.
            ELIZABETH BALANOFF is professor of history, Roosevelt
                    University, 
                  Chicago, Illinois
               . She teaches courses in labor and 
                        United States
                     immigration history and directed at Roosevelt an oral history project in labor history
                    dealing primarily with 
                        Chicago
                     labor figures, many of whom were immigrants.
         
         
         
            
               Plain Ol' Charlie Deam: Pioneer Hoosier Botanist. By Robert C. Kriebel.
                    (West 
                        Lafayette
                    , Ind.: Purdue University Press, 1987. Pp. x, 183. Illustrations, notes, bibliography,
                    index. Paper-bound, $12.95.)
            In Plain Ol' Charlie Deam: Pioneer Hoosier Botanist, Robert C. Kriebel
                    provides an honest and instructive preface with his acknowledgment that "any successful
                    biographer who writes one-third of a century after his subject'S death needs good luck, for
                    most human sources have passed on, written records may be scattered or private, and some information
                    has gone unrecorded" (p. ix). Then he cites a host of sources and collaborators who made
                    possible his remarkable biography. This volume recalls to the Hoosier heritage Charles Clemon Deam,
                        the man, for whom his admirers "named a lake, a national wilderness,
                    a kind of tree and about fifty small plants" (p. vii). In addition, Deam earned three
                    honorary degrees. This great-grandson of German immigrants established his pharmacy at Bluffton,
                    Indiana, and in 1897 hired J. R. Spivey as his business associate. Spivey remained his partner for
                    many years, and this arrangement made possible Deam'S extraordinary career.
            Deam was a self-taught botanist and a respected member of the Indiana Academy of Science. In 1910
                    Governor Thomas R. Marshall appointed him secretary of the Indiana Board of Forestry and, with the
                    state geologist, placed him on the Indiana Conservation Commission. When Richard Lieber became
                    chairman of the local board of managers of the Fifth National Conservation Congress, a preservation
                    partnership was born. "The long and cooperative friendship between hard-driving Lieber and
                    the hyperactive Deam grew out of that 1912 Congress" (p. 43). However, because of
                    Deam'S refusal to contribute to Governor Samuel M. Ralston'S "Two Per
                    Cent Club" (which would have amounted to thirty-six dollars of his annual salary), Deam
                    lost his appointment to the Forestry Board. By 1917, with the help of Lieber and Purdue'S
                    Dean Stanley Coulter, Deam was reappointed to his old job, "snarling at the stenographers,
                    bossing the field hands at the 
                        Clark County
                     State Forest, motoring around the counties and townships with a modest state expense
                    account, and flashing the silver badge of acting state forester" (p. 52).
            With the possible exception of his only real mentor, Coulter, it can be said that Indiana'S
                    botanical beginnings are the lengthened shadow of one man—Charles Deam. Four solid
                    volumes, written between 1911 and 1940, remain a celebration of his dedication and scholarship: Flora of Indiana, Shrubs of Indiana, Trees of Indiana, and Grasses of
                        Indiana. "Indiana University students in 
                        Bloomington
                     leaf with reverence through his collection of seventy-three thousand paper sheets of
                    pressed, dried, insect-proofed, and mounted plant specimens, mothballed and secured in fireproof
                    cabinets. In  the same building as the Deam Herbarium, is
                    shelved the man'S three-thousand-volume botanical library" (p. vii). His herbarium
                    was the product of years of field work and over 100,000 miles of travel across Indiana'S
                    landscapes. If this legacy were not enough, for thirty years Deam annually published Deam'S Almanac from his Bluffton drug store.
            A born curmudgeon, Charlie criticized the academicians of his day, whom he charged with spending much
                    time on campus and little in the field. Yet he did maintain very close professional and personal
                    ties with many scientists in Indiana and the nation. His experience as a graduate of the
                    "College of Hard Knocks" made him caustic and defensive. No subject was spared.
                    "Our schools are saturated with athletics which, for the most part, are the skidway to
                    hell. Can you remember the old fashioned spelling bees? People had just as much interest in them as
                    in basketball and I am certain the net results were much better. If we must have physical
                    competition, let me see who can dig the longest ditch in the shortest time. I am strong for physical
                    education, but a deadly foe for competitive athletics" (p. 95).
            Fortunately for Charles Clemon Deam and for posterity, Kriebel and Purdue University Press have
                    defied the longueurs of time to create this admirable portrait of a pioneer Hoosier botanist. Editor
                    of the 
                        Lafayette
                    
                    Journal and Courier, Kriebel is a master of descriptive technique. Not satisfied
                    with chasing Charlie'S ghost, he has largely succeeded in making manifest his spirit.
                    Deam'S words appear italicized throughout these pages and are presented as jewels set
                    within a finely crafted narrative. Deam Lives!
            ROBERT FREDERICK was formerly professor of history,
                    University of Alaska, Fairbanks. In Alaska he served as public historian, National Trust advisor,
                    and director of the Alaska Historical Commission. He currently resides in Indiana where he continues
                    work on a bibliographical guide and biography of Colonel Richard Lieber.
         
         
            
               Paul M. Butler: Hoosier Politician and National Political Leader. By George C.
                    Roberts. (
                        Lanham
                    , Md.: University Press of America, 1987. Pp. ix, 199. Illustration, notes,
                    bibliographical note, index. Clothbound, $24.00; paperbound, $12.95.)
            Paul M. Butler, 
                        South Bend
                     attorney and political organizer, was Democratic national chairman from 1955 to 1961.
                    As such, he presided over party reforms that preceded one of the most important periods of social
                    and political change in American history. 
                        Butler
                    , says the author, was dedicated to the good of the nation above personal power or
                    wealth. After winning party leadership, he established committees for determining and publicizing
                    issues, training workers, and raising money; and by 1960 he had brought new life to the
                    organization.
            
            This book is a valuable compilation of materials despite numerous drawbacks. George C. Roberts has
                    used the 
                        Butler
                     papers at the University of Notre Dame, and his account is dispassionate and generally
                    reliable. The book is of convenient size, only two hundred pages, and the notes are placed handily
                    at the end of each chapter. Unfortunately, the volume leaves too many questions unanswered. For
                    example, 
                        Butler
                     was suspected of being ambitious. Did he hope for nomination to elected office? What
                    does it say about 
                        Butler
                    , the man who believed civil rights was the nation'S most important issue, that
                    before election as national chairman he signed a pledge not to make segregation an issue? The pledge
                    appeased southern members of the party but apparently repudiated 
                        Butler
                    'S convictions. And what was 
                        Butler
                    'S attitude toward other events of his time? The reader has only a vague notion
                    of the influence of McCarthyism, the Korean war and its aftermath, the sputnik crisis, and Martin
                    Luther King'S activities. Finally, 
                        Butler
                    'S contribution is not clear. This lack of clarity may stem from the
                    book'S overlapping, topical organization. What, for example, was the effect of the party
                    chairman'S ignorance of foreign relations and acceptance of partisanship as a political
                    principle? One especially would like to know 
                        Butler
                    'S importance in the John F. Kennedy nomination and victory in 1960.
            Other deficiencies include cumbersome sentences and paragraphs that fail to carry a theme and the
                    fact that the book relies on manuscripts and secondary sources in political science but reveals
                    little knowledge of the historical literature on the Eisenhower presidency or on the election of
                    1960. Finally, there is no bibliography. Useful perhaps for specialists and graduate students, this
                    book is ill-suited for both undergraduates and general readers.
            WILLIAM B. PICKETT is professor of history, Rose-Hulman
                    Institute of Technology, 
                        Terre Haute
                    . His research and writing have focused on Indiana and national political history,
                    American diplomacy, and the career of Dwight D. Eisenhower. In 1989-1990 he will be a Fulbright
                    lecturer in 
                        Japan
                    .
         
         
            
               Letters From a Young Shaker: William S. Byrd at Pleasant Hill. Edited by Stephen
                    J. Stein. (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1985. Pp. x, 165. Illustrations, appendixes, notes, index. $15.00.)
            
               
                        United States
                     Judge Charles Willing Byrd of Sinking Spring, 
                        Ohio
                    , became interested in the Shakers at Pleasant Hill when family members were part of a
                    mob that attacked the community in 1825. He investigated the faith of the Shakers, stated his
                    intention to join the society, and in June, 1826, sent his twenty-year-old son, William S. Byrd, to
                    live at Pleasant Hill.
            The Shakers seemed awed by the prospects of a 
                        United States
                     judge as a potential convert and treated his son, a descendant of  the noted Byrd family of 
                        Virginia
                    , with deference. Despite the spartan life-style of the Shakers and their insistence
                    upon community labor, young Byrd, who lived the life of an honored guest, was provided with his own
                    apartment, his own stove, and his own schedule and, in fact, appeared to do little except take walks
                    and write an occasional letter.
            William wrote his father a series of letters that have been preserved with other Byrd family
                    manuscripts at the Lilly Library at Indiana University. Transcripts of these letters, which comprise
                    but forty-six pages of this slim volume, are preceded by a 47-page introduction and are followed by
                    sixty-three pages of appendixes, notes, and index.
            The letters themselves are disappointing in their content. While William lived among the brothers and
                    sisters and had access to the inner circle of the elders, the writings dwell on business
                    transactions between William, Charles, and the Shakers and on the health of father and son. Little
                    light is shed on the day-to-day life of the village. The insight the letters provide into the
                    insidious dissent among the western Shaker communities in this era is perhaps their greatest value.
                    This dissension was the beginning of a long, slow decline of Shaker life. Slight reference is made
                    to the abandonment of West Union, or Busro, the Indiana Shaker village. The letters stopped with the
                    unexpected death of Judge Byrd in August, 1828. William never became a Shaker during his two years
                    at Pleasant Hill; however, when he died five months later in January, 1829, he left a will
                    bequeathing his property to the Shakers.
            Stephen J. Stein has provided an extensive and well-written introduction to the letters and an
                    appendix of other relevant documents. The value of the book would have been enhanced by
                    transcription of letters between Charles W. Byrd and Frances Voris, the Shaker trustee; diary notes
                    of Charles W. Byrd about the Shakers; and other Charles W. Byrd letters containing Shaker
                    references. Two letters written by Charles W. Byrd to William S. Byrd are included in the appendix
                    but could have appeared chronologically with the William S. Byrd letters. Endnotes would be easier
                    to use if in consecutive numerical order from beginning to end rather than beginning again with each
                    section.
            Manuscript material from Pleasant Hill is scant. In contrast to the very restrictive policy of one
                    major repository of Shaker manuscript materials, permission to publish these letters by the Lilly
                    Library is to be commended as a welcome addition to Shaker scholarship.
            JOHN MARTIN SMITH, a practicing
                    attorney, is a student of Shaker history. He has recently written 
                        DeKalb County
                    , 1837-1987 in commemoration of the sesquicentennial of his native
                    county and is currently writing a full history of the Shaker community at Busro to be entitled West Union on the 
                            Wabash
                        : Indiana'S Pioneer Shaker Community.
            
         
         
         
            
               Divide and Dissent: 
                            Kentucky
                         Politics, 1930–1963. By John Ed Pearce. (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1987. Pp. viii, 247. Illustrations, selected bibliography, index. $24.00.)
            John Ed Pearce, a reporter and columnist for the 
                        Louisville
                    
                    Courier-Journal, has written an interesting, enjoyable, and probing history of 
                        Kentucky
                     state politics during the time period 1930-1963. Originally the author intended to
                    write a brief review of Bert T. Combs'S years as governor of 
                        Kentucky
                     (1959-1963), but the material grew and grew until Pearce produced this 247-page book.
            Three Democrats, A. B. (Happy) Chandler, Earle C. Clements, and Combs, are the book'S major
                    protagonists. Unfortunately, these men did not work together but rather often opposed each other to
                    the great detriment of the state. Of the three, Chandler appears as the "heavy"
                    because, among other defects, he did not want to share the political spotlight with anyone else and
                    was a person who put his career ahead of the interests and needs of the commonwealth of 
                        Kentucky
                    . Combs is Pearce'S hero because he believes Combs performed excellently as
                    governor. Combs tried hard and made important though sometimes politically unpopular decisions
                    (e.g., raising taxes) as he attempted to get the state "going." A detailed
                    discussion of Combs'S political career and tenure as governor makes up the main portion of
                    this volume.
            Pearce'S first chapters cover the early history of 
                        Kentucky
                     politics. The author barely mentions Republican party politicians because during the
                    thirty-three years covered by the book, they were a distinct minority and did not play a major role
                    in the state'S political development.
            According to Pearce, 
                        Kentucky
                     suffers from many deep-seated problems and long-term deficiencies, such as an
                    economically poor population and an antiquated state Constitution that was last revised in 1891.
                    This second problem is compounded by present-day resistance to a sweeping overhaul of the
                    Constitution. Governors cannot succeed themselves in office (which may be a good idea). Moreover,
                    elected officials are unwilling to levy and raise taxes to support the state government and to help
                    solve the state'S critical needs for better education, highways, and social programs.
                    Perhaps most importantly, there is an overriding and transcendent preoccupation with the game of
                    politics. As the title of this book indicates, the state is divided geographically, politically, and
                    economically. Dissent between the groups dominates over the body politic'S ability to work
                    together to bring 
                        Kentucky
                     into the mainstream of mid-twentieth century America.
            The book is well written. It is a frank and somewhat cynical view of the fascinating history of 
                        Kentucky
                     politics. While there are no footnotes or documentation in the text, a three-page
                    bibliography appears at the end. Two sections of black-and-white photographs add to the
                    reader'S enjoyment of the text.
            
            Politicians from neighboring states will find much "ammunition" in this book to use
                    in urging potential businesses to settle in their state and to avoid 
                        Kentucky
                    , as politics in the Blue Grass state is a history of bitterness, dissension, and missed
                    opportunities.
            GENE TEITELBAUM, a resident of New 
                        Albany
                    , Indiana, is professor of law, University of 
                        Louisville
                    . His bibliography of writings about Justice Louis D. Brandeis was published in January,
                    1988, by the Fred B. Rothman Company, Littleton, 
                        Colorado
                    .
         
         
            
               Class Conflict and Cultural Consensus: The Making of a Mass Consumer Society in
                        Flint, 
                            Michigan
                        . By Ronald Edsforth. (
                        New Brunswick
                    , N. J.: Rutgers University Press, 1987. Pp. xvi, 294. Figures, notes, selected
                    bibliography, index. Clothbound, $40.00; paperbound, $12.00.)
            In this book Ronald Edsforth provides an account of Flint automobile workers in the twentieth
                    century. Although the title speaks of "cultural consensus" and of the
                    "making of a mass consumer society," in fact the author has little to say about
                    these intriguing but vague topics. This is not surprising since the forces shaping a cultural
                    consensus and a mass consumer society have been more national than local in origin and focus. A case
                    study approach yields relatively little where such large and fuzzy abstractions are concerned. The
                    author does present a narrative that combines the development of Flint'S automobile
                    industry and work force with an account of a few short-lived attempts to establish a radical
                    political presence in the city.
            The story begins with the General Motors Corporation and William C. Durant. From the automobile
                    industry'S early days through the 1920s the work force quiescently submitted to the
                    manufacturer'S domination of the factories. There is little evidence of class consciousness
                    or conflict. For practical purposes labor organizations did not exist, and a brief socialist
                    political movement prior to World War I left no lasting impression. The Great Depression generated
                    class feeling and produced the organization of the United Automobile Workers in Flint as in other
                    automobile manufacturing centers. Also important were the efforts of the American Federation of
                    Labor and the surge forward of the Congress of Industrial Organizations, which climaxed in the great
                    sit-down strike of 1936-1937. Political radicalism made little headway among the rank and file as
                    Democrats such as President 
                        Franklin
                     D. Roosevelt and Governor Frank Murphy captured the political loyalty of most workers.
            In the final chapters Edsforth traces the decline of class feeling among the workers, attributing
                    much of it to Walter P. Reuther, president of the UAW after 1946. Some historians may believe that
                         the turn toward a more stable, less contentious union
                    stemmed more from pressures within the ranks than Edsforth allows.
            Although the outlines of this story are familiar to automobile industry historians, Edsforth is the
                    first writer to provide a consecutive, detailed account of Flint workers. Hampered by a paucity of
                    primary materials for the years prior to the Great Depression, the author makes good use of the more
                    extensive documentation that accompanied and resulted from the establishment of the UAW in Flint and
                    the emergence of the industry'S workers from the shadows of a company town into the
                    brighter and warmer sunlight of a union city.
            JOHN BARNARD is professor and chair of the Department of
                    History, Oakland University, 
                  Rochester, Michigan
               . He is the author of Walter Reuther and the Rise of the Autoworkers (
                        Boston
                    : Little 
                        Brown
                     and Co., 1983).
         
         
            
               Crown and Calumet: British–Indian Relations, 1783–1815. By
                    Colin G. Calloway. (
                        Norman
                    : University of 
                        Oklahoma
                     Press, 1987. Pp. xiv, 345. Illustrations, maps, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $21.95.)
            
               Crown and Calumet is a wide-ranging inquiry into the symbiotic relationship that
                    endured for three decades during which Britons and Indians shared an antagonism toward the infant 
                        United States
                     and its people. Although Colin G. Calloway'S alliterative title implies a
                    narrative covering the policies and activities of both parties in this frontier partnership, his
                    interests do not lie in events and their explanation. Rather, his concerns revolve around the
                    attitudes and perceptions of both Britons and Indians and upon the circumstances that characterized
                    their interplay. Consequently, between introductory and concluding surveys of the situations in 1783
                    and in 1815, he organizes his materials into nine topical chapters that examine cultural
                    impressions, commercial interchanges, and military collaborations from both British and Indian
                    vantages. Each chapter presents many related generalizations, each supported by brief examples drawn
                    randomly from all the years under consideration and from across all North America west of the
                    Appalachians.
            While touching upon myriad components of Anglo-Indian involvement, Calloway focuses on the two
                    overriding concerns of both parties—namely military and commercial. After 1783, as he
                    reiterates repeatedly, "Britons and Indians found themselves bound by a common fear of
                    American expansion and a joint determination to protect the fur-bearing wilderness from the land
                    hungry settlers of the young Republic" (p. 6). Calloway sees their relationship as balanced
                    precariously on three boundaries: the international borders between British, Spanish, and American
                    possessions; the changing lines between American settlement and Indian lands; and the cultural  barriers that hampered their mutual efforts to defend the first
                    two through practical military cooperation and profitable commercial exchange. In essence, the
                    British-Indian teaming was one of necessity and opportunism, an always uneasy and unstable entente
                    held together solely by firepower and furs. Calloway asserts that most crown and tribal leaders
                    recognized the calculated pragmatism that underlay their dealings, but his research also indicates
                    that little empathy or fondness existed between Britons and Indians.
            Calloway'S conclusions are persuasive because he bases them upon an impressive array of
                    primary sources as well as recent ethnohistorical studies. He also understands and overcomes the
                    dangers lurking in the ethnocentrically biased writings of his eighteenth and nineteenth century
                    commentators. Other than an inadequate index that lists mainly personal and place names, the
                    work'S only shortcomings result from its topical approach. The text sometimes becomes less
                    an investigation than a compilation of the observations Calloway has collected. Of more importance,
                    he never defines what makes this association and these years unique when compared to other
                    white-Indian relationships and other eras.
            In one sense, however, this weakness of Crown and Calumet is also its greatest
                    strength. Within its circumscribed topical parameters, Calloway excels in explaining the social,
                    political, and economic contexts that are indispensable background for anyone engaged in reading,
                    researching, or teaching about interethnic contacts anywhere along the early North American
                    frontier. Although the book does not give a comprehensive, coherent account of British-Indian
                    affairs in the Old Northwest or elsewhere during the post-Revolution era, it does set down the
                    interpretive foundation essential to prepare the narrative overview still wanted of the
                    British-Indian alliance that challenged but failed to halt the expansion of American settlement for
                    thirty years. One hopes that Calloway, who here demonstrates his mastery of the relevant sources and
                    their meaning, will continue his project by undertaking such a survey.
            PAPU L. STEVENS received his doctorate in history from the
                    State University of 
                        New York
                     at Buffalo in 1984. His special interest is British-Indian relations during the
                    American Revolution, about which he has published a half dozen articles. His latest work is A King'S Colonel at Niagara, 1774-1776: Lt. Col. John 
                            Caldwell
                         and the Beginnings of the American Revolution on the 
                            New York
                         Frontier (Youngstown, N.Y.: Old Fort Niagara Association, 1987).
         
         
            
               Land Fever: Dispossession and the Frontier Myth. By James M. Marshall. (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1986. Pp. viii, 239. Illustrations, appendixes, notes, works consulted, index.
                    $21.00.)
            This book presents the autobiography and scattered writings of a pioneer farmer and juxtaposes his
                    narrative and experience  with the realities of history and the
                    myths, songs, and literary tradition of the rural Middle West. The autobiography—the work
                    of Omar Morse, maternal great-grandfather of the author—is a unique document. There are
                    all too few memoirs of migrating farmers, farm laborers, and small-town craftsmen. The
                    autobiography, roughly seventy pages in length, covers the last three-quarters of the nineteenth
                    century and offers a personal view of social and technological change and economic trends as well as
                    a rare insight into the rural mentality.
            Unfortunately, James M. Marshall has not served his ancestor well. His editing of the autobiography
                    and letters is pedestrian. His effort to set the autobiography in a literary context seems strained
                    if not overblown. The autobiography can carry Hamlin Garland but not William Dean Howells and
                    Theodore Dreiser. The historical treatment is little better. It is marred by small errors and large
                    misunderstandings. Marshall links and praises C. Vann Woodward and Richard Hofstadter on Populism as
                    if they agreed. He confuses the reader by using the word homestead to mean a place
                    of residence as well as land obtained under the Homestead Law. Morse, incidentally, never
                    homesteaded, but Marshall insists that he failed not primarily because of cyclical depressions but
                    because the government'S land policy served the speculators and not the real farmers in the
                    Midwest. He raises the issue of Populist anti-Semitism from long-exploded sources. Ironically,
                    Morse'S autobiography is devoid of prejudice, but Marshall does not see in this further
                    proof to refute Hofstadter, Oscar Handlin, et al. For him, it seems, absence of
                    evidence is not evidence of absence.
            The autobiography is very revelatory. Morse is a typical pioneer farmer, breaking lands, building
                    farms, and drifting. He sells off improvements or fails to make payments on loans. He suffers the
                    hardships of labor, but he is never without capital, can always borrow, and he seems even in poor
                    times to have resources. He is euchred out of money through innocence; physicans charge outrageous
                    fees to treat his fatally ill wife; and his family and friends often prove to be the real Shylocks
                    in his life. Cherishing his freedom to farm, or loaf, or visit, Morse at the end advises his son,
                    who works for the railroad, to get some land so he can be independent of employers. Morse turned the
                    Jeffersonian myth into a reality. One can only wonder what he would have thought of his descendant
                    who writes of him as both a victim of the system and a gullible loser.
            MARTIN RIDGE is head of research at the 
                        Huntington
                     Library, 
                  San Marino, California
               .
         
         
         
            
               In Pursuit of Reason: The Life of Thomas Jefferson. By Noble E. Cunningham, Jr. (
                        Baton Rouge
                    : 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press, 1987. Pp. xvi, 414. Illustrations, notes, bibliographical note,
                    index. $24.95.)
            Noble E. Cunningham, Jr., set himself the prodigious task of writing the biography of Thomas
                    Jefferson in 350 pages. This enterprise, requiring extensive knowledge of the sources, a sure grasp
                    of the historical literature, and a firm understanding of the history encompassed by a life of
                    eighty-three momentous years, has been fulfilled. In Pursuit of Reason chronicles
                    Jefferson'S achievements and shows his commitment to "the sufficiency of reason
                    for the care of human affairs" (p. xv).
            Cunningham includes the essentials, but the result is a life that is somewhat lifeless. The details
                    that animate a story are too often missing, sacrificed to exigencies of space. This vagueness is
                    especially true for the period of Jefferson'S presidency, when the need to explain the
                    history of the time leaves little space for personal matters. The specifics of presidential actions
                    are not always clear. For example, though Cunningham says that in order to enforce the embargo the
                    Jefferson administration was forced to carry out some arbitrary measures, he does not explain what
                    those were. A similar sketchiness mars his description of Jefferson'S years as governor of 
                        Virginia
                    .
            Cunningham'S emphasis on Jefferson'S love of reason shortchanges the
                    Virginian'S passions. Readers never see the man getting mad or having fun.
                    Jefferson'S pursuit of Aaron Burr and his feud with John Adams were not entirely
                    reasonable. His fear of the Federalists, though founded on specific justifiable complaints, was also
                    founded partly on irrational beliefs. A more direct confrontation of these issues would help the
                    reader to understand several unexplained incidents in Jefferson'S life.
                    Jefferson'S encouragement of prosecutions against Federalist editors, for example, is
                    described simply as "surprising to read today," but further treatment of this
                    issue might have thrown some light on the president'S motives and beliefs. Cunningham had
                    no room to deal separately with Jefferson'S political thought except as it related
                    specifically to the events of his political career. The reader, though, needs to have a better
                    understanding of Jefferson'S basic philosophy in order to appreciate that career.
            Cunningham'S treatment of the writing of the Declaration of Independence is a marvel of
                    concision, providing in just a few choice phrases summaries of the mountains of material written on
                    this important subject. Other especially successful sections clarify the confusing election of 1800
                    and recount the story of Jefferson'S fight  to found
                    the University of 
                        Virginia
                    . This enterprise aptly fits the author'S theme: Jefferson'S
                    commitment to make reason rule all aspects of human endeavor. Being only human, Jefferson failed to
                    live up to his ideals, and it is this human side of Jefferson that Cunningham'S biography
                    unfortunately neglects. The care with which Cunningham has presented the events of
                    Jefferson'S public career, however, will make his book a much-consulted source.
            SYLVIA NEELY is associate professor of history, Indiana
                    University-Purdue University at Fort 
                        Wayne
                    . During 1987-1988 she was director of the Indiana-Purdue Foreign Studies Program in
                    Strasbourg, 
                        France
                    .
         
         
            
               Gamaliel Bailey and Antislavery Union. By Stanley Harrold.
                            (
                  Kent, Ohio
               : 
                        Kent
                     State University Press, 1986. Pp. xvi, 301. Illustration, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $28.00.)
            The past generation has seen an outpouring of biographies of antislavery figures, some volumes
                    pedestrian, some inspired, most somewhere in between. The best have not only illuminated their
                    subjects but have served as vehicles for major reinterpretations or important new insights into
                    antebellum reform. Gamaliel Bailey deserves full-length biographical treatment as much as any
                    previous subject, and Stanley Harrold'S work falls into the inspired category. It is
                    impressively researched, is in discourse with the relevant secondary literature, and is conceptually
                    coherent. It presents a solid account of Bailey'S life and provides valuable, although not
                    striking, insights into the larger antislavery movement.
            Bailey (1807-1859) was born in 
                        New Jersey
                    , studied medicine in 
                        Philadelphia
                    , and edited a Methodist periodical there before settling in 
                        Cincinnati
                     in 1832. Almost by chance he found himself attached to the faculty of Lane Seminary as
                    a physiology instructor. The famous Lane debates of 1834 swept Bailey into the immediate
                    abolitionist movement. Soon he found himself on the staff and later editor of the leading western
                    abolitionist organ, the Philanthropist. Bailey made the periodical a voice for
                    "moderate" abolition, Liberty party politics in 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana, and opposition to the radicalism of William Lloyd Garrison.
            Late in 1846 Bailey moved to 
                        Washington
                    , D. C., to edit the National Era, which under his leadership became
                    the most widely read antislavery journal in the country. Bailey'S greatest coup, albeit an
                    unwitting one, came in 1851 when he began to serialize the hitherto unknown Harriet Beecher
                    Stowe'S Uncle Tom'S Cabin. Bailey also served as a leading
                    antislavery lobbyist in 
                        Washington
                     and was an intimate of Salmon P. Chase, Joshua R. Giddings, and Charles Sumner.
                    Ironically, even though Bailey gave early support to the organization of the Republican party, it
                    was that party'S absorption of antislavery politics that sent the Era
                    into a slow decline.
            Bailey'S personal papers have been lost, so Harrold'S book is necessarily a public
                    biography. It places Bailey in the context of his times, analyzing his political and economic
                    thought as well as  his views on reform. In short, this is a
                    competent work that will probably stand as the definitive biography of its subject.
            THOMAS D. HAMM is the author of Transformation of American Quakerism (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1988). He is archivist and assistant professor of history,
                    Earlham College, 
                        Richmond
                    , Indiana, and is now studying radical abolition in the Old Northwest.
         
         
            
               Travels to Hallowed Ground: A Historian'S Journey to the American Civil
                    War. By Emory M. Thomas. (
                        Columbia
                    : University of 
                        South Carolina
                     Press, 1987. Pp. ix, 155. Maps, illustrations, index. Clothbound, $19.95;
                    paperbound, $9.95.)
            Inspired by visits to a dozen battle sites, Emory M. Thomas, professor of history at the University
                    of 
                        Georgia
                     and author of several scholarly books on the Civil War, offers a dozen brief
                    meditations on the great conflict. He begins with 
                        Gettysburg
                    , backtracks to John 
                        Brown
                    'S raid on Harper'S Ferry, and from there proceeds through selected
                    episodes of the war to Joseph E. Johnston'S surrender to William T. Sherman at Bennett
                    Place near Durham, 
                        North Carolina
                    , on April 26, 1865. One of his recurring themes is the contrast that he perceived,
                    during his travels, between the noble past and the tawdry present. The louts of today litter the
                    scenes of past glories and sufferings—of which they know next to nothing— with
                    the plastic detritus of a civilization gone soft.
            Some of the meditations come off nicely and may be read as small-scale prose elegies on the horrors
                    of human conflict. Others, for example the short one about Fort 
                        Pulaski
                     on its island near Savannah, 
                        Georgia
                    , fall rather flat, even though Thomas uses Percy Bysshe Shelley'S
                    "Ozymandias" to reinforce his point about the vanity of fixed fortifications and
                    neatly slips in an allusion to Heracleitus'S philosophy of history.
            Indiana readers may be interested in the author'S references to General Lew Wallace at the
                    battle of 
                        Shiloh
                     (the general'S failure to bring his division decisively into action at an
                    opportune moment is charitably ascribed to muddled orders and to the complexities of the terrain)
                    and to novelist Kurt Vonnegut, whose optimistic speech on nuclear peace, given in 
                        New York
                     City in 1982, sets the tone for the penultimate essay entitled "Protruding
                    Entrails and Petersburg." One regrets, from the hard-core Hoosier point of view, that there
                    are no allusions, once Thomas has dealt with 
                        Shiloh
                    , to the participation of the numerous Indiana volunteer regiments in the other
                    engagements he has chosen as starting points for his reflections. Indiana was present with
                    distinction at several of them.
            The attractively printed text is flawed in minor ways. Some of the illustrations are a bit murky. It
                    is difficult, for example, to see  clearly the eponymous exposed
                    guts in the photograph of the dead Rebel soldier at Petersburg. Editorial whimsy has converted the
                    good old word intact into the meaningless prepositional phrase in
                        tact (p. 43). The speed, such as it was, of the Confederate casemate ram 
                        Tennessee
                     is given in lubberly fashion in miles per hour (p. 111), and readers are erroneously
                    informed that all Union ironclad warships of the period were designated monitors (p. 112). They were
                    not, simply because not quite all of them were monitors, a welldefined type even in the 1860s.
                    Finally, a skirmish at a road juncture is mentioned (p. 129). An adequate index
                    and some informative maps are present, but footnotes and a bibliography are lacking.
            Such faults notwithstanding, Thomas has done a fine, thoughtful, and enormously well-informed job on
                    what is, in a way, a print version of Modest Mussorgsky'S "Pictures at an
                    Exhibition." His stops along the chronological path to examine various Civil War actions
                    and their implications for posterity generally produce evocative and moving battle pieces. One can
                    read this elegant volume, enjoy it, and learn from it even if one is not a Civil War enthusiast.
            RICHARD H. THOMPSON teaches full-time at the 
                        Columbus
                     campus of Indiana University-Purdue University 
                        Indianapolis
                     and is working on a biography of Francisco Villa, the Mexican revolutionary
                general.
         
         
            
               The Christian Home In Victorian America, 1840–1900. By Colleen
                    McDannell. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1986. Pp. xvii, 193. Illustrations, notes, bibliography,
                    index. $25.00.)
            How well the moral vitality of the American middle-class family survived the nineteenth
                    century'S demographic and cultural disruptions remains the subject of keen scholarly
                    debate. Colleen McDannell'S meticulous comparison of shifting religious habits fostered
                    among Protestant and Irish Catholic households reaches conclusions more affirmative than many. She
                    argues that the behavior patterns urged upon Victorian family members by advice writers, novelists,
                    architects, advertisers, and religious professionals ultimately produced a domestic religion so
                    strong and comfortable that, among Protestants at least, it came to rival formal churches in
                    sustaining piety. As responsibility for religious nurture of the young shifted decisively from
                    Evangelical pulpit to Protestant parlor in post-
                        Puritan
                     America, the home became (in Peter Berger'S borrowed phrase) a
                    "sacred canopy" for the protection of family virtue. To enforce this shift, Gothic
                    architectural forms and religious iconography were promoted with the aim of transforming private
                    dwelling space into dramatic visual expressions of Christian morality. McDannell mistrusts the
                    notion that domestic religion can be defined simply as a retreat from the public or social sector.
                    The Christian home she depicts is one that resonated with the religious culture surrounding it. It
                    is also a home that, as others have noted,  was increasingly
                    feminized in mood. The inherited "paternal model" for family devotion, stressing
                    obedience to stern male authority in the Protestant combat between sin and salvation, slowly yielded
                    to the gentler, more affectionate terms of the "maternal model," centering on the
                    mother-child bond. McDannell suggests, but does not really spell out, a causal relation between this
                    change and the general softening of Protestant theology across the century.
            Perhaps most fresh and valuable about McDannell'S study are the contrasts she develops
                    between Protestant and Catholic modulations of domestic ideology. Owing to Catholic emphasis on
                    male-administered rituals of worship within the sacred structure of the church and Irish Catholic
                    preoccupation with the goal of binding male immigrants more closely to their families, the Catholic
                    version of feminized domestic piety lagged decades behind its Protestant counterpart, not maturing
                    until century'S end. Despite this lag, and despite important differences that she notes in
                    the temper of the rival faiths—Protestant striving versus Catholic assurance—
                    McDannell ventures the thought that mututal agreement on the value of the moral home provided both
                    constituencies with a common language with which to speak to each other. For this and other reasons
                    she finds the growth of domestic religion a mainstay of cultural cohesion in Victorian America.
            GEOFFREY BLODGETT is author of Oberlin
                        Architecture, College and Town: A Guide to its Social History (
                  Kent, Ohio
               : 
                        Kent
                     State University Press, 1985). He teaches American intellectual and architectural
                    history at Oberlin College, Oberlin, 
                        Ohio
                    .
         
         
            
               "The World of Hope": Progressives and the Struggle for an Ethical
                        Public Life. By David B. Danbom. (
                        Philadelphia
                    : Temple University Press, 1987. Pp. x, 277. Notes, index. $24.95.)
            "The World of Hope" is an effort to reexamine the values and
                    convictions of men and women who sought to reform society during the Progressive Era. Dismissing
                    those who emphasize self-interested motives or who suggest that the reforms in this period can best
                    be understood in such terms as "modernization," David B. Danbom paints a picture
                    of progressive reformers as idealists, men and women who sought to restore to public life the high
                    standards and values that characterized their Christian, Victorian upbringing. They were
                    "Christian progressives" who "believed that as men and women put the law
                    of love into operation in their daily lives as voters, workers, employers, consumers and neighbors,
                    the problem of public life would disappear" (p. 84). By about 1910, Danbom argues, some
                    reformers looked to science rather than Christianity for remedies to the problems of society. These
                    "scientific progressives" were more willing to "modernize values and
                    alter reality" (p. 115). They shared with "Christian progressives,"
                    however, the  naive belief that abuses could be easily
                    eliminated and virtue restored to a dominant place in American public life.
            Although progressivism was destroyed by World War I, Danbom asserts that the seeds of the decline of
                    progressivism can be found in the failure of these well-meaning reformers fully to comprehend the
                    forces shaping twentieth century America. The movement must be understood as a noble failure that
                    presaged a general decline in the quality of public life in America which continues to the present.
                    "The 
                        United States
                    ," the author concludes, "has had precious little reason to be proud
                    since the end of the progressive era" (p. 231).
            Danbom'S analysis is provocative but sometimes overstated and oversimplified. He uses terms
                    such as "progressive" and "progressivism" without reference to
                    the rich historiographical debate concerning the various meanings and connotations of these words.
                    His suggestion that "progressive" and "liberal" are synonymous
                    does not clarify matters. Readers never learn which figures or groups in this period fit into the
                    categories of "Christian" and "scientific progressives."
                    Danbom'S commentary too often takes on a polemical quality.
            "The World of Hope" recalls the idealism that pervaded this
                    important period in American history, and it describes well the origins of this attitude. Although
                    much of what Danbom says is not original, he has provided a framework through which aspects of this
                    era can better be understood. The book falls short, however, of being a persuasive reinterpretation
                    of reform efforts in this important period.
            STANLEY CAINE is vice-president for academic affairs and
                    professor of history, 
                        Hanover
                     College, 
                        Hanover
                    , Indiana. In addition to his administrative duties, he teaches courses in American
                    history on a part-time basis.
         
         
            
               Urban America in the Modern Age, 1920 to the Present. By Carl Abbott. (Arlington
                    Heights, Ill.: Harlan Davidson, Inc., 1987. Pp. viii, 181. Tables, maps, illustration,
                    bibliographical essay, index. Paperbound, $8.95.)
            The study of modern urban history is a multifaceted discipline. Using traditional narrative sources
                    and now, more frequently, statistics derived from a plethora of governmental and private studies,
                    the urban historian must deal with issues as diverse as immigration and ethnicity, transport
                    systems, and water supply. The investigation of any single city can be long and complex; it is
                    therefore all the more remarkable that Carl Abbott has produced a well-balanced overview of American
                    urban history since 1920 in his slim text, Urban America in the Modern Age.
            
            
            Abbott'S book, part of the American History Series under the editorship of John Hope 
                        Franklin
                     and Abraham S. Eisenstadt, is noteworthy in several respects. Most importantly, Abbott
                    avoids the common urban survey pitfall of limiting his examples to major cities such as 
                        New York
                     and 
                        Chicago
                    . Rather, he illustrates issues in urban history by using examples from cities as
                    diverse in size, location, and background as 
                        Cleveland
                    , Dallas, 
                        Denver
                    , and Birmingham, 
                        Alabama
                    . Within these cities and many others he touches upon a variety of urban themes,
                    including the changing nature of immigration, business, industry, suburbanization, labor, and
                    politics. Tables and maps help to illustrate issues such as population growth, population movement
                    during World War 11, and even racial tension; they are located adjacent to relevant portions of the
                    text and are therefore quite useful. A three-part division of the time period covered (1920-1940,
                    "The First Modern Cities"; 1940-1960, "Building and Rebuilding";
                    and 1960-1980, "A New Urban America") seems historically valid and moreover
                    provides a strong framework for the variety of information in the book. Although not footnoted, the
                    book includes a sixteen-page thematically arranged bibliographic essay that contains citations to
                    the most recent works in the field as well as to classics in urban history. A fifteen-page index
                    provides both subject and proper name access to the text.
            While some urban history is made almost unreadable by the heavy use of statistics, Abbott'S
                    book is well written. The narrative is often enhanced by references drawn from classic urban
                    fiction, such as Sinclair Lewis'S Babbitt, Frank
                    O'Connor'S The Last Hurrah, and John Updike'S Rabbit
                    Angstrom series. The points drawn from these works fit neatly into the text and help to illustrate
                    issues such as the conveniences of modern life, urban politics, or the deterioration of small urban
                    centers (the fictional town of Brewer in the Updike series). In some instances, however, the use of
                    illustrations from popular culture is taken too far. Offlanded references to Archie Bunker or Rocky
                    Balboa may well be lost on some readers whose level of cultural literacy may not include the media
                    phenomena of the 1970s.
            These are, however, minor criticisms. Urban America in the Modern Age is an
                    extraordinarily good short survey of modern urban history; and while directed toward the college
                    classroom, it would make excellent reading for nonstudents as well.
            JOHN J. GRABOWSKI is managing editor of The
                        Encyclopedia of 
                            Cleveland
                         History (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1987) and coeditor (with David D. Van Tassel) of 
                        Cleveland
                    : A Tradition of Reform (
                  Kent, Ohio
               : 
                        Kent
                     State University Press, 1986). He is curator of manuscripts, The Western Reserve
                    Historical Society, 
                  Cleveland, Ohio
               .
         
         
         
            
               A Generation of Boomers: The Pattern of Railroad Labor Conflict in
                        Nineteenth–Century America. By Shelton Stromquist. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1987. Pp. xix, 353. Illustrations, tables, figures, appendixes, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $29.95.)
            In A Generation of Boomers Shelton Stromquist undertakes the daunting task of
                    explaining the recurrent labor conflict on the nation'S railroads from the 1870s through
                    the 1890s. A central concept in this wide-ranging book is that of a labor
                    "frontier." When railroads entered a new region, labor scarcity enabled railroad
                    workers— many of them "boomers," itinerants quick to move on at the
                    slightest provocation—to demand good wages and a strong voice in determining work rules.
                    Frontier conditions prevailed across much of the nation in the late 1870s but disappeared as the
                    rail network expanded. Thus, workers gradually lost their "frontier" advantages,
                    tempting railroad corporations to cut wages and seek control of the work process. The ongoing battle
                    over such changes fueled the strikes of the late nineteenth century. When the railroad brotherhoods
                    proved incapable of staving off management incursions, workers experimented with other forms of
                    organization. The ultimate expression of nineteenth century railroad worker consciousness was Eugene
                    V. Debs'S American Railway Union. The ARU had the potential to play a pivotal role in the
                    development of the American working class but was caught up in the bitter Pullman Boycott of 1894
                    before it was strong enough to withstand the combination of private economic power and government
                    repression thrown against it.
            During the final decades of the nineteenth century railroad managers began to develop systematic
                    labor relations policies, primarily in response to labor unrest. Again, the Pullman Boycott was
                    crucial. This challenge showed managers the necessity of controlling their employees; their
                    inability to break the boycott without massive federal intervention argued for an ongoing government
                    presence in railroad labor relations; and the threat posed by the ARU convinced them that the safer
                    brotherhoods should be encouraged. Soon a new framework for railroad labor relations was
                    constructed. Under this new order railroads adopted personnel policies designed to monitor and
                    discipline workers. Certain managerial abuses were legally proscribed, but the permanent threat of
                    injunctions left little doubt about which side the federal government would take in serious labor
                    disputes. Skilled workers, represented by the brotherhoods, won good wages and working conditions
                    but at the cost of their solidarity with their less-skilled brethren. Railroaders faced a choice.
                    They could accept the new regime, thereby abandoning the values and perquisites that had melded them
                    into an articulate, class-conscious group. Or they could, like Debs, conclude that labor questions
                    and political power were so entwined that a workers' movement that did not enter the
                    political sphere  was futile. Debs soon led the remnants of the
                    ARU into the Social Democracy of America.
            Stromquist explores many other questions, including the nature of community support for railroad
                    strikers and the role of the Knights of Labor in railroad worker organization. His use of the
                    concept of a "labor force life cycle" is particularly intriguing. The scope of
                    this impressive book sometimes makes for difficult going; the complex material treated here is not
                    easily organized, necessitating much repetition and shifting between topics. The introductory
                    chapter fails to prepare the reader for what is to come, although the chapter summaries are very
                    helpful. Stromquist sometimes works with a narrow research base; a few cities provide most of the
                    data for some interpretations. While this obviously was necessary for a manageable project, much
                    "fine-tuning" probably remains to be done through studies of other railroad towns.
                    The author gathered his strike data from reports published by the office of the 
                        United States
                     commissioner of labor for the years 1881-1894. These reports are a rich and largely
                    untapped resource but must be used with caution: if the experience of this reviewer in studying one
                    midwestern city is any indication, they can greatly underreport strikes.
            These are minor concerns. Stromquist provides a fascinating look at railroad labor during a crucial
                    period in the nation'S history, presenting insights of such broad significance that this
                    book should be of interest to all historians of the American working class.
            GARY L. BAILEY is a doctoral candidate in history at
                    Indiana University and an instructor for the university'S Independent Studies Program. He
                    is completing a study of the working class of 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Indiana.
         
         
            
               Fordson, Farmall, and Poppin' Johnny: A History of the Farm Tractor and Its
                        Impact on America. By Robert C. Williams. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1987. Pp. ix, 232. Notes, illustrations, figures, table, bibliography, index.
                    $24.95.)
            Robert C. Williams'S unique background—he is a 
                        Texas
                     farmer with a Ph.D. in history—shapes his splendid book, which is both a
                    careful history of the farm tractor and a polemical defense of small-scale, efficient farms.
                    Williams provides a business history of the tractor industry, a description of the course of
                    technological change, and an analysis of the effects of the tractor on farmers and farm
                    life—all in a sprightly style that makes the book both accessible to the general reader
                    and valuable for the scholar. The book'S 37-page bibliography listing important scholarly
                    books and articles along with federal and state government publications and articles from trade
                    journals, newspapers, and farm publications testifies to Williams'S indefatigable and
                    meticulous scholarship and provides an invaluable aid for future research.
            
            The now ubiquitous tractor is a relative newcomer to American farms. Steam tractors proved too
                    cumbersome and heavy to become widely adopted, and the internal combustion engine, which quickly
                    brought the automobile to the nation'S streets, proved difficult to adapt to farm tractors.
                    The major problem was technological; the successful tractor had to be more than a motor-driven
                    horseless carriage. To be useful and economical tractors had to be powerful yet small and cheap
                    enough for small farmers, which meant that they had to be versatile enough to do the many different
                    tasks performed by horses and mules while costing less to buy, operate, and maintain than the
                    animals they would replace. In addition, tractors and implements had to be adapted to each other,
                    requiring cooperative and coordinated innovation. Williams carefully describes early efforts and
                    experiments and the inability of manufacturers to meet all these goals in a satisfactory manner,
                    concluding that "tractors did not reach a practical, mechanical maturity until the eve of
                    the Second World War" (p. 86).
            Once perfected, tractors had revolutionary effects on farming and on rural society. They increased
                    output while decreasing the drudgery of farm work, but at a cost as farmers became increasingly and
                    dangerously dependent on off-farm inputs such as credit, fuel, and maintenance. Expenditures for
                    such services and products seemed wise when incurred during good times but proved disastrous when
                    farm commodity prices declined. Williams concludes, however, that much of the resulting social
                    disruption could have been avoided and current trends might still be reversed. Mistaken social
                    policy, not technology, is destroying the "moderate-sized" family farm, he
                    insists: "tractors and other machinery are but scapegoats for a society that has never been
                    able to address the unconscious centralization of economic power into ever fewer, but ever bigger,
                    heedless corporations" (p. 186). Many will surely disagree, and some will undoubtedly
                    wonder how big a moderate-sized farm should be. But all should ponder Williams'S arguments
                    as they learn from his well-written history.
            HAROLD D. WOODMAN, professor of history at Purdue
                    University, is studying the social and economic effects of the Civil War and emancipation on the
                    agricultural South.
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            A History of 
                        Blackford County
                    , Indiana… (
                        Hartford
                     City, Ind.: 
                        Blackford County
                     Historical Society, 1986. Pp. 304. Illustrations, maps, index. $50.00. Order
                    from Betty Everhart, 901 North Mill Street, 
                        Hartford
                     City, Indiana 47348.) This well-made county history includes two parts: a survey of
                    local history, presented in short sketches, and a section of family histories. Many people and
                    institutions contributed to this effort, but none more than Cecil Beeson, 
                        Blackford County's
                     widely respected history expert. Many illustrations are included in a book that will be
                    of large interest to all with ties to the county. James H. Madison, Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    .
            Tales of 
                        Leavenworth
                    . By Rush 
                        Warren
                     Carter. (N.p., n.d. Pp. x, 224. Paperbound.) Rush 
                        Warren
                     Carter grew up in 
                        Leavenworth
                    , Indiana, on the banks of the 
                        Ohio
                     and drew from his boyhood memories and from tales he heard and read to write these
                    vignettes. While based on real people, he weaves fictional dialogue and action with his history. His
                    tales will bring back warm memories, especially for those who know small towns, with characters such
                    as baseball player "Slab" Mix, who "could hit one a mile now and then,
                    but had such big feet he almost had to knock a ball into the next county if he expected to get a
                    double" (p. 124). James H. Madison, Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    .
            Studies in Indiana German-Americana, Volume I. (West 
                        Lafayette
                    , Ind.: Foreign Languages and Literatures, Purdue University, 1988. Pp. iv, 105. Annual
                    periodical. Subscriptions: $6.00 for individuals; $4.00 for members of the
                    Indiana German Heritage Society). All interested in Indiana history will welcome the first volume of
                    this publication, edited by Joe Salmoiis of Purdue University. As with other periodicals, individual
                    articles will be included in the annual list published in the March issue of the Indiana Magazine of
                    History, but they range from treatments of the Germans of early 
                        Vanderburgh County
                     to dialect in 
                        Dubois County
                     and Paul Tillich's association with 
                        New Harmony
                    . The volume is appropriately dedicated to Dr. Elfrieda Lang, whose pioneering work on
                    Indiana's German population was among the first scholarly analyses of this important
                    subject. James H. Madison, Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    .
            Tales of a Hoosier Village: A History of Bristol, Indiana. Edited by Jean Ann Young. (Bristol, Ind.:
                    Wyndham Hall Press, Inc.,  1988. Illustrations, index.
                    Clothbound, $25.00; paperbound, $19.50. Order from Bristol Alumni Association,
                    P.O. Box 624, Bristol, Indiana 46507.) These tales center on Bristol, located in 
                        Elkhart County
                     in northern Indiana. The attractively produced book includes short sketches and
                    selections from oral interviews with residents of the community. There are many good illustrations.
                    James H. Madison, Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    .
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
