
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 55, Issue 2, pages 111-207. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:55+issue:2+year:1959&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            The Indiana State Board of Accounts
            
                    Louis E. Lambert
                    *
                
            THE LAW IN FORMATION
            
            The first decade of the present century was a period of intellectual ferment when social, economic,
                    and political institutions were examined and questioned as they had never been before. In the area
                    of politics and government, to which this study is restricted, the decade was rich with argument and
                    innovation. The initiative, referendum, and recall, devices of democracy, were discussed fully and
                    accepted in several states. The direct primary was being adopted in various states and soon became
                    the common method for nominating candidates for state and local offices. Newspapers devoted
                    considerable space to the subject of woman suffrage, and a number of western states granted women
                    the right to vote by 1915.
            Several plans for the improvement of local government were introduced, considered, and, in some
                    places, accepted. The commission form of city government, though not exactly new when adopted by
                    Galveston, 
                        Texas
                    , in 1901, became well-known during the decade. The Des Moines Plan, a refinement of the
                    commission form, attracted national attention and was the subject of an admiring editorial in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News.1 The council-manager (city manager) type of municipal
                    government was initiated in Staunton, 
                        Virginia
                    , and the News reprinted an editorial from the 
                        Washington
                    
                    Herald concerning it.2 Late in 1908 the News
                    carried several stories about the activities of 
                        New York
                    's Bureau of Municipal Research, the first of such agencies in this country.
                    The success of the 
                  
                     * Louis E. Lambert is Assistant Professor of Government at
                            Indiana University.
                  
                     1
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, April 27, 1908.
                  
                     2
                            Ibid., December 11, 1908.
               
                     bureau, the News declared, had a local
                    application. The News said: 
                        In a word, in the short life of this association it has accomplished a wonderful amount of
                            good. It has done it by having system itself. Its work has been progressive, conducted in a
                            businesslike way day after day….
                        There should be in this a lesson for 
                                Indianapolis
                            .3
                  
                    
            
            The positive results of the decade from 1900 to 1910, however, are merely one part of the picture of
                    government and politics, and certainly not the most typical part. Mis-government, scandals of
                    omission and commission, probably was no greater than in preceding decades, but some scandals of
                    municipal and state corruption were thoroughly investigated. The results of these investigations
                    were published in hard-hitting prose supported by documentary evidence in nationally circulated
                    magazines by a group of writers who became known as the Muckrakers.
            Though their approach was negative on the surface, the Muckrakers made a very significant
                    contribution toward the improvement of local government. To show concrete results stemming from the
                    studies of 
                        Lincoln
                     Steffens and his colleagues, except for particular and largely temporary gains, would
                    be difficult, but much information on the failure of local government was made available to the
                    public. Interest in local government awakened, discussion developed, and then indignation grew.
            Steffens' articles on graft and corruption in city and state governments appeared in McClure's Magazine from 1902 to 1905. They were packed with evidence of
                    bribery of legislative bodies, of orgies of crime by criminals acting under the sponsorship and
                    protection of police departments, and of widespread betrayal of the public interest by government
                    officers. Steffens' titles were in themselves indictments of the cities and states being
                    discussed: "Tweed Days in 
                        St. Louis
                    ," "The Shamelessness of 
                        Minneapolis
                    ," "
                        Philadelphia
                    : Corrupt and Contented." In the Introduction to The Shame of the
                        Cities, a compilation of the McClure's Magazine articles,
                    Steffens says, "They were written with a purpose…they are reprinted now together
                    to further that same purpose, which was and is—to sound for the civic pride of an
                    apparently shameless citizenship."4
            
            
               
                  3
                        Ibid., December 14, 1908.
               
                  4
                        
                            Lincoln
                         Steffens, The Shame of the Cities (
                            New York
                        , 1904), 3.
            
            
            Hoosiers were, no doubt, familiar with Steffens' writing since the circulation of McClure's was becoming increasingly wide during the first decade of the
                        century.5
                    Cosmopolitan, Outlook, Colliers, Everybody's, and the Independent, all nationally distributed, also carried muckraking articles. After
                    investigations in 
                  St. Louis, Chicago, Minneapolis, New York, Philadelphia,
                            Cincinnati
               , and 
                        Cleveland
                    , Steffens found that the trail of municipal corruption led to various state capitals.
                    But even when revealing misrule on the state level, Steffens continued his accounts of local
                    wrongdoing. In fact, by exposing the close relationship between boodlers and bribers on each level
                    of government, he brought the situation of mis-government home effectively to the public. The title
                    of his article on Illinois reveals Steffens' point of view: "
                        Chicago
                    's Appeal to 
                        Illinois
                    —Showing How, Since Corruption of a State and its Cities Is All One System,
                    Municipal Reform Must Include State Reform."6
            
            That Steffens' articles made an impression in Indiana is suggested by the fact he was
                    invited to address the Contemporary Club of 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1908. Though not accepting Steffens' somewhat sophisticated analysis of
                    what was wrong with municipal government, the News acknowledged the valuable
                    contribution which he had made toward improving local government.7 The
                    muckraking articles on graft and corruption in the larger American cities set many Indiana people to
                    wondering about what was going on in their own city halls and county courthouses. Frequently weekly
                    and daily newspapers of the county seats verified the rumors of corruption that had been made a
                    subject of gossip. Occasionally a treasurer would slip away by night, leaving a sizable shortage
                    behind; commissioners and trustees would become prosperous, too prosperous; obvious miscarriages of
                    justice would occur; bridges and highways would be constructed below specifications and above
                    reasonable cost. Although these things were widely known, seldom was anything done about them.
            But even though the local prosecutors directed little energy or inclination toward exposing
                    misgovernment, 
                  
                     5 C. C. Regier, The Era of the Muchrakers (
                                Chapel Hill
                            , N.C., 1932), 57.
                  
                     6
                            
                                Lincoln
                             Steffens, The Struggle for Self-Government (
                                New York
                            , 1906), 40.
                  
                     7
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, October 16, 1908.
               
                     shortages in public accounts came to light. W. N. Blodgett, a
                    crusading journalist of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News, visited a number of counties in 1908 and gave local scandals state-wide
                    publicity. Though he made no investigations himself, he performed a valuable service by making the
                    people of the state conscious of the prevalence of wrongdoing by local officers. In the News of October 22, 1908, Blodgett reported that in 
                        Wabash County
                     three county treasurers in succession had defaulted, and that the city treasurer, short
                    $13,000, had been indicted but was freed on a technicality. From 
                        Evansville
                     Blodgett wrote of a Vanderburg County treasurer who, though short $62,000,
                    was acquitted of charges of embezzlement.8 In 
                        Terre Haute
                     Blodgett found that a 
                        Vigo County
                     treasurer had been short $78,000, and that a city treasurer had stolen
                    considerable sums.9 In his dispatch of October 28 from 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Blodgett first used the phrase which was to be frequently repeated in articles on
                    dishonesty in local government: "Vigo county is loud in its demand for an
                        opening of the books." (Italics are the author's.) His account of the
                    acquittal of commissioners who had been indicted for the illegal letting of a contract to construct
                    bridges closes: "The people of Henry county want the county books opened, and they are
                    going to have them opened some day."10 From 
                        Decatur County
                     under a headline of "‘Good Fellows’ and Bad Bookkeeping
                    Produce the Familiar Results," Blodgett told of a trustee who could not account for
                    $10,000, of padded teacher payrolls, and of office records disappearing from the county
                    auditor's office.11 In 
                        Gibson County
                     Blodgett found that an 
                        Indianapolis
                     firm was granted a bridge construction contract, even though its bid was the highest of
                    three submitted.12
            
            
               
                        Monroe County
                     drew considerable attention from Blodgett because the political situation there, he
                    stated, was the worst he had seen in the state.13 A "Ring" had
                    dominated both political parties, selecting the candidates for both and deciding who should be
                    elected. The "Whitecaps," a terroristic group which was the disciplinary arm of
                    the Ring, 
                  
                     8
                            Ibid., October 27, 1908.
                  
                     9
                            Ibid., October 28, 1908.
                  
                     10
                            Ibid.,
                  
                     11
                            Ibid., October 30, 1908.
                  
                     12
                            Ibid., November 20, 1908.
                  
                     13
                            Ibid., November 19, 1908.
               
                     reportedly enforced its decisions. When the 
                        Monroe County
                     accounts were audited by special auditors hired for that purpose, two former sheriffs
                    were found to be short, $22,000 had been improperly paid out for roads, and four
                    newspapers had been overpaid for legal printing.14 The scandals in 
                        Monroe County
                     were so well known and the situation had existed so long that Governor Winfield T.
                    Durbin (1901–1905) had recommended, some time before Blodgett's visit, that the
                    state university be removed from 
                        Bloomington
                    , the county seat.15
            
            Such revelations of graft and corruption in public office as these, written by Blodgett and published
                    in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News during the last quarter of 1908, caused numerous people to conclude that
                    local political scandals were common throughout the state and were therefore of more than local
                    concern. When a suggestion was made that the authority of the state be used to try to correct this
                    political corruption, community leaders rallied to support the idea. If the situation had not been
                    made clear for them by national and state publications, their support might have been lacking when
                    it was needed. In fact, a bill to establish a state agency to audit the accounts of local officers
                    had been introduced in the general assembly in 1899 only to die quietly in committee.16 Between 1899 and 1909 a change of attitude had occurred in Indiana. The earlier attempt
                    to secure a system of auditing the accounts of public officials had been defeated quietly and
                    easily. But in 1909 a bill to accomplish this result was passed, not quietly and easily perhaps, but
                    passed. By this time many people of political influence had come to believe that a check would have
                    to be set upon state and local officials.
            Hence, public awareness of the need for reform was finally translated into action when questionable
                    practices in the 
                        Marion County
                     auditor's office induced a civic and business group, the Merchants'
                    Association of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , to agitate for control of corruption in city, township, and county 
                  
                            14
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     15
                            Ibid., December 14, 1908.
                  
                     16 Indiana, Journal of the House of Representatives,
                            1899, Part 1, p. 935, H. B. 533, describes this as "a bill for an act to enable the
                            State of Indiana to exercise a better supervision in the collection and management of State,
                            county and township funds, etc." The bill was introduced by Representative Alfred
                            M. Glossbrenner, February 13, 1899, and was referred to the Committee on County and Township
                            Business.
               
                     government through state legislation. By publicizing existing
                    abuses in local government and by organizing opinion, the association influenced the Sixty-sixth
                    General Assembly to create the State Board of Accounts, an agency which put the finances of public
                    office under state supervision.
            The particular set of incidents that aroused public opinion in 
                        Marion County
                     and precipitated the struggle which culminated in the creation of the State Board of
                    Accounts broke into the newspapers inconspicuously. On February 14, 1908, the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News reported, under the headline "Irregularities at
                    Courthouse," that the newly elected auditor had informed the county commissioners that five
                    warrant books were missing from his office. Several days earlier Albert Sahm, the county auditor,
                    had become suspicious of certain warrants that had been issued during the term of his predecessor.
                    Two particular warrants were without any bill or entry to account for them on the claims docket. The
                    auditor instructed his staff to refuse approval for payment on these warrants until he could
                    investigate the circumstances under which they had been issued.17 Before this
                    time, however, Sahm had become involved in an argument with Emmett S. Huggins, who worked in the
                    auditor's office as bailiff of the county commissioners' court. The auditor had
                    insisted that all bills presented to the commissioners for payment be accompanied by affadavits
                    setting out in detail the services performed or materials supplied. Until the auditor's
                    enforcement of this provision, which had been newly accepted by the commissioners on the advice of
                    the county attorney, a certification by Huggins had been sufficient for presentation of a claim to
                    the commissioners. Huggins maintained that such affadavits were unnecessary, but Auditor Sahm
                    insisted upon complete compliance with the law.18
            
            When the previously mentioned warrants were presented, the auditor discovered that they were made out
                    to individuals who, so far as he could discover, had had no dealings whatsoever with the county. On
                    the day that the suspicious warrants were presented, Sahm discovered that the warrant books for 1907
                    had disappeared from his office. Auditor Sahm then informed the commissioners of the situation in
                    his office. 
                  
                     17
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, February 14, 1908.
                  
                     18
                            Ibid., February 15, 1908.
               
                     At a meeting of the three commissioners with the auditor and
                    the prosecuting attorney, Emmett S. Huggins admitted making out the warrants in question. He said
                    that he had made them to individual employees of a construction firm doing work for the county
                    because "it was desired that it not appear that the firm was getting too much work from the
                    county." Huggins admitted that he had drawn one warrant on an improper fund because, he
                    said, the proper fund was too low at the time. Huggins denied any knowledge whatsoever of the
                    missing warrant books. The News stated, "Hug-gins is a young man, the
                    son-in-law of R. G. Moore, member of the County Council. His reputation has been clean."
                    One of the commissioners, who was not specified, expressed confidence in Huggins, saying that
                    Huggins "could explain the matter of the warrants, and would do so."19
            
            Such confidence, however, was not well-founded, for Huggins' story was quickly exploded. One
                    of the men to whom a warrant had been made was called to the auditor's office; the other
                    alleged warrant holder was out of town. At the auditor's office the first man stated that
                    he had done no work whatever for which the county, even indirectly, should pay him; furthermore, he
                    maintained that he had not received or signed any county warrants. He denied that the signature on
                    the warrant had been made by him.
            Prosecutor Elliott R. Hooten said that a grand jury was needed. Police were stationed in the
                    auditor's office at night to prevent any further disappearance of official records. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News mentioned that "rumors of other alleged crookedness were plentiful
                    about the courthouse today."20 An editorial stated suspicions of the
                    former county administration: 
                        We think the people of 
                                Marion county
                             now realize how wise was their action in electing Mr. Sahm as auditor, thus
                            making a break in the ring which has for years governed this county….
                        Of course, this is a case for the grand jury. Leaving, then, the question of criminality to
                            be settled by that body, we only say now that we have a case of business management that
                            reflects seriously on all those—the late auditor, and the County
                            Commissioners—who had any official relation to the affair.21
                  
                    
                    
                  
                     19
                            Ibid., February 14, 1908.
                  
                     20
                            Ibid., February 15, 1908.
                  
                     21
                            Ibid.,
               
                     On February 17, a grand jury was summoned and Criminal Court
                    Judge James A. Pritchard gave it special instructions concerning alleged fraudulent payments made in
                    the auditor's office. A News editorial asked: 
                        What we wish to know is the names of the men who have thus been robbing the people of 
                                Marion county
                            . Also the people wish to know how it was that such ridiculous and criminally
                            careless methods of transacting the people's business were permitted
                            by…[the commissioners] and by Auditor Clark…. We know, too, that under
                            the system, of which we have learned much in the last few days, almost any sort of looting
                            or grafting was possible.
                    
            
            Further information was brought to light by the grand jury. Money paid the auditor for the making of
                    plats had increased from $1,000 in 1904 to $8,500 in 1907. None of the bills
                    for plat making presented by the auditor during 1905 and 1906 set out the actual number of
                    descriptions for which the bills were supposed to pay; all were made out in round sums such as
                    $500 and its multiples. The coal bills for the county powerhouse varied between
                    $600 and $1,200 monthly although the engineer testified that the amount of
                    ashes removed each month was substantially the same. It was later found that the coal bills were
                    higher in the summer than in the winter. The commissioners paid $775 for an X-ray machine
                    for the Julietta Hospital for the Insane even though the price on the open market was only
                    $155. The superintendent denied that he had made any requisition for such a machine, and
                    none was found. When he received the machine, the superintendent had called Commissioner John E.
                    McGaughey about it and was assured that everything was "all right." According to
                    the superintendent, McGaughey directed him to approve the receipt and told him that his approval on
                    the receipt meant no more than that the machine had arrived in working condition. The most important
                    discovery of the grand jury, however, concerned the letting of a contract to supply boilers and
                    pumps for the county powerhouses. The only bid was by the Atlas Engine Company, but no contract
                    between that firm and the county could be discovered by the commissioners.22
            
            Meanwhile, two more newsworthy events occured. The county commissioners petitioned the county council
                    to appropriate 
                  
                     22
                            Ibid., February 17, 19, 20, 1908.
               
                     $1,000 to pay "two competent
                    experts" to examine the county's books. Secondly, the personnel of the grand jury
                    itself came under discussion. It was discovered that one member had been a custodian of the
                    courthouse, and if he had remained on the grand jury he would have passed upon some of his own acts.
                    Another member and his brother were partners in a lumber firm that had received money from the
                    county.
            The developments stemming from the letting of the Atlas Engine Company contract, however, soon
                    monopolized the headlines in the 
                        Indianapolis
                     papers. Huggins, who had been arrested on a forgery charge on February 20, was further
                    charged with bribery and conspiracy to commit bribery. Two of the county commissioners, one of whom,
                    John D. McGregor, was still serving, were also charged with bribery and the soliciting of a bribe,
                    as were several officers of the Atlas Engine Company. The president of the company had been in 
                        California
                    , but had, according to his wife, gone on a visit to 
                        Australia
                    .
            After stating that his client did not intend to become a "fall guy," Emmett
                    Huggins' attorney aroused further public interest in the case by saying, according to the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star of March 5, "‘If that boy [Huggins] tells what he knows
                    he will blow the slate roof off of that Court House.’" The News reported that Huggins admitted stealing at least $5,000 from the county by
                    forging and cashing more than fifty warrants. Futher betrayal of the public trust was suggested by
                    the fact that he had paid cash for a $1,000 lot in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and had joined an expensive fraternal organization, though his salary had never
                    exceeded $75 a month.23 The Atlas Machine Company salesman testified
                    that he had given a check for $3,800 to Huggins for bribing the county commissioners. The
                    company auditor of the Atlas Company presented the canceled check. In a statement to the prosecutor,
                    Huggins admitted that he had received the check and that he had paid Commissioner McGregor
                    $800. On the day that Huggins and the Atlas representative testified that Commissioner
                    McGregor had been given the $800 bribe, a deposit slip of McGregor's for
                    approximately $800 and dated the same day as the check from Atlas was presented as
                    evidence. Yet, Commissioner McGregor was found not guilty. The original bid of the Atlas Machine
                    Company had been 
                  
                     23
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, August 30, 31, 1908.
               
                     $15,000. When Huggins, allegedly acting for some of
                    the commissioners, demanded the $3,800 bribe, the company added an additional
                    $1,900 to its bid for "profit."24
            
            Within four days after publication of the scandal, the county commissioners started action to get the
                    facts on the misconduct of public business in 
                        Marion County
                    . They petitioned the county council to appropriate $1,000 to pay
                    "two competent experts" to examine the county's financial records. Within
                    two weeks the county council had made $5,000 available for the investigation. All county
                    records, beginning with those of December 31, 1907, were to be investigated at once. How far back
                    the study might possibly be carried at some future time was not specified. The
                    "experts," as yet unnamed, were to be under the direction of the commissioners at
                    all times, and their reports, when completed, were to go to the commissioners. An 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star editorial objected to the arrangement when it said that 
                        it does seem as if a board of county commissioners, one of whom is under arrest and all of
                            whom are tinder inquiry, might hesitate about appointing experts to investigate themselves.
                            It might occur to them, we should say, that a vindication so obtained might form the basis
                            of subsequent unsympathetic comment.25
                  
                     Nonetheless on the same day that the Star was protesting, E. R. Parmalee
                    and C. D. Lockhart were appointed by the commissioners to examine the county's financial
                        records.26
            
            At this point, the Merchants' Association of 
                        Indianapolis
                     interjected what proved to be a significant proposal into the plans for investigation
                    of county finances. On March 9 the organization's first move in its subsequently active
                    part in the inquiry was a decision to contribute $2,500 to hire an attorney to assist the
                    county prosecutor in the graft cases, thereby bringing in an impartial outside examiner. Three
                    members of the association, William C. Bobbs, Ferd L. Mayer, and Fred M. Ayres, called on Judge
                    James A. Pritchard and ascertained the desirability of such a step. The offer to engage an outside
                    attorney was in response to the county council's reluctance to appropriate funds for such a
                    purpose.
            The Merchants' Association retained an 
                        Indianapolis
                     attorney, James W. Noel, to assist in the investigation of 
                  
                            24
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     25
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, March 3, 1908.
                  
                            26
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                    
                    
                        Marion County
                     government. This act was to have considerable significance, for Noel was to play an
                    important role in the creation of the State Board of Accounts. The specific date that Noel was
                    assigned to the investigation cannot be ascertained, but he is mentioned in the county
                    commissioners' petition to the council for funds to continue the investigation which
                    states, "Whereas, By and through the work of said experts and County Attorney John C.
                    Ruckelshaus and Mr. James W. Noel, special counsel for 
                        Marion County
                     in matters pertaining to this investigation, the county has recovered from various
                    persons large sums of money."27
            
            In his speech at the banquet marking the twenty-fifth anniversary of the Board of Accounts,28 Noel stated, "They [the Merchants' Association] finally
                    induced the county commissioners to employ the speaker as a deputy county attorney, without pay. The
                    merchants' association [sic] paid him."29
            
            Noel was particularly well-equipped to aid in the investigation, for in 1903 he had 
                        conducted a public investigation of the affairs of the City of 
                                Indianapolis
                             which resulted in the overthrow of the administration at the coming election,
                            and temporarily purged the city of much corruption and many abuses. In 1905 the governor of
                            the state appointed him as one of three members of a commission to investigate state affairs
                            and the condition of Indiana insurance companies. Mr. Noel took direction of this movement
                            and devoted the larger part of one year to its success, which resulted in the removal of the
                            auditor of state, the secretary of state and the adjutant general, and the recovery of
                            hundreds of thousands to the state treasury….30
                  
                    
                    
                  
                     27
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, August 21, 1908.
                  
                     28 This banquet was given by the Field Examiners' Association
                            to celebrate the twenty-fifth anniversary of the State Board of Accounts. A record of the
                            proceedings of the evening can be found in "State Board of Accounts Twenty-fifth
                            Anniversary Addresses," Transcription of proceedings at the twenty-fifth
                            anniversary banquet of the Board of Accounts, January 5, 1935 (typed carbon copy owned by
                            Otto K. Jensen). A deputy state examiner at the time of the banquet, Jensen assigned a
                            stenographer to make a record of the event; this record will be hereafter cited as
                            "XXV Anniversary Addresses."
                  
                     29 "XXV Anniversary Addresses," 25–26.
                  
                     30 Jacob Piatt Dunn, Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                      (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1910), II, 863. The last sentence of this quotation refers to abuse of state
                            funds which caused Governor J. Frank Hanly to include a discussion of the problem of
                            misgovernment in his message to the General Assembly of 1907. That legislature adopted a
                            depository law designed to give increased protection to state and local funds. For
                            Hanly's remarks, see Indiana, Journal of the House of
                            Representatives, 1907, pp. 23–32, 39, 76–79. The 1907 depository
                            law is to be found in Indiana, Laws (1907), Chap. 222, pp.
                            391–404.
               
                     He seems to have been almost uniquely qualified to supply the
                    initiative to the movement which would culminate in the establishment of the State Board of
                    Accounts. Summing up the effect of the 
                        Marion County
                     scandals, Noel said, "As a result of that investigation, more than
                    $60,000.00 was returned to the public treasury of 
                        Marion County
                     upon demand. There were several indictments, but there was no conviction."31
            
            Noel said that the practical plans to get a bill for uniform accounting and auditing of public
                    accounts were made at the final conference of the three-man committee (Ayres, Bobbs, and Mayer)
                    which had participated in the 
                        Marion County
                     investigation. Noel recalled that at this time the committee said: 
                        "Now, we have had an investigation of state finances with some recommendations. We
                            may get some legislative help there. We have had an investigation of the 
                                Marion County
                             Court House and have cleaned it up for awhile. The same thing that has been
                            going on in 
                                Marion County
                             has been going on all over the state. We don't mind the expense we
                            have incurred in this investigation, but we don't want to do it next year or the
                            next year or at any time thereafter; that ought to be a matter of public concern. What have
                            you to recommend?"
                        This was my opportunity. I told them then about Mr. Glossbrenner's bill introduced
                            in 1899 and the scant attention it received. I explained to them that there was no reason in
                            the world that the public accounts should not receive the same attention as important
                            business accounts; no reason that there should not be a uniform system of public accounts
                            which should receive the same kind of audit that commercial accounts did with large
                            corporations. They said, "All right, can we bring it about?" And they said
                            they would finance a movement for it, and whether they got by with it or not, they would
                            stand behind it.32
                  
                    
            
            In October, 1908, the Merchants' Association of 
                        Indianapolis
                     undertook a delicate and difficult task—that of bringing about the enactment
                    of legislation for the general welfare. Considered more narrowly, the interest might be classified
                    as that of the taxpayers. Definitely, there was to be an attempt by the governed group to curb the
                    governing group by legislation.
            A new committee was chosen by the Merchants' Association to formulate the public accounting
                    and auditing 
                  
                     31 "XXV Anniversary Addresses," 26.
                  
                     32
                            Ibid., 26–27.
               
                     bill and to initiate the movement to work for its enactment.
                    Noel gives a good account of the make-up of this committee: 
                        Mr. Hugh Dougherty was a banker, one of the best respected men in the State of Indiana. He
                            was a democrat and very strong and powerful with the democratic organization. Mr. Evans
                            Woollen was also a democratic…member of the committee. Mr. Merrill Moores was
                            selected as a third member of that committee, and…. knew more about the local
                            public business, and the laws relating thereto, than any [other] man in Indiana….
                            The speaker was the workhorse for the committee and sat with it.
                        I want to give credit here now to one who has not had much mention in connection with it [the
                            accounting bill], Judge Charles Hanna…. Judge Hanna was employed and paid by the
                            Merchants' Association to assist us in that work, and he did the clerical work and
                            a good deal of the best part of the work done in drafting this bill.33
                  
                     The earlier committee to investigate graft had been solidly Republican, with Noel, a
                    Republican, as adviser and chief worker. The inclusion of Democrats on this new committee emphasized
                    a point that the committee was to insist upon—that its program was nonpartisan, and
                    strictly intended to benefit all, not just a small group. As a last bastion, the committee could
                    assert that it was at least bipartisan.
            The arguments used by the Merchants' Association committee were based upon the concept that
                    American private business was good and that American public business—the operation of
                    government—was not so good. "Good" here refers to ethical methods and
                    personnel. The committee believed that to prefix "business" to a term was to make
                    it a good term. "Businessman," and "business methods" were terms
                    that in themselves were used to evoke respect and serious consideration.
            When Mr. Bobbs said in a release to the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News of October 14, "At the outset this committee desires to impress the
                    public with the idea that the action of the Merchants' Association is a business movement
                    and not a political movement," he was putting the program on what he considered a high
                    plane. In trying to bring about a procedural change in the operation of state and local government,
                        
                  
                     303 Ibid., 28–29.
               
                     which certainly involved the use of political means, he labeled
                    the method to be used as "nonpolitical." Obviously, the change could be
                    accomplished, however, only through the use of political techniques operating through and upon
                    politicans, but Mr. Bobbs meant that the initiative and impetus would be furnished by the business
                    community. The call to businessmen and business associations to organize themselves outside the
                    party structures to bring about reforms was a call based upon a higher morality and upon a greater
                    sense of responsibility than the political parties could demonstrate. Decency and respectability,
                    impelled by a crisis, were to move into an area which they usually avoided. That such an
                    intervention by the business community in the political area was isolated and unique is so far from
                    the truth that comment upon it is not necessary. The techniques used in this particular situation,
                    however, are notable and will be discussed below.
            Since the committee assumed that business was good and that government was not good, or clearly not
                    so good as business, this major assumption left the committee with only the task of proving that the
                    proposed reforms were truly business methods and proposed by businessmen. The latter point was
                    evident, for the names of the committeemen were familiar in the 
                        Indianapolis
                     business community. The former point was thought to be relatively easy to establish.
                    Simple assertion that the reforms were business methods was considered effective, and such assertion
                    was made to the general public.34
            
            To convince the businessmen themselves, the committee used more than bald assertion. The fullest
                    statement of policy was made by James W. Noel to the state Federation of Commercial Clubs at 
                        Richmond
                    . Noel referred first to auditing of private firms by outside private auditors when he
                    asked, "What railroad company doing business in this State, or what express company in
                    Indiana would allow its business to go on for years without an audit of its accounts?"35 When Noel 
                  
                     34 According to the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, October 14, 1908, "most of these proposed reforms consist
                            in nothing more than the application of the simplest and most obvious methods of private
                            business to the public business." And W. C. Bobbs stated, Ibid.,
                            October 15, 1908, that "‘the proposition is not one of party politics,
                            but is simply a business man's effort to have honest business methods adopted in
                            the management of county, township and city affairs.’"
                  
                     35
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, November 19, 1908.
               
                     made his strongest point in favor of outside inspection of
                    offices handling public money, however, he did not use a business practice for illustration. He
                    turned to the federal postal system: 
                        "How many postmasters of Indiana are embezzlers? So very few that 
                                Marion county
                             furnishes more cases of dishonesty in public office than the entire State does
                            with reference to postmasters. And why? The Government has prescribed forms of accounts that
                            postmasters must adhere to. When the inspector drops in unceremoniously he does not ask that
                            the cash be brought to him for inspection. He asks for the key to the cash drawer, and the
                            cash must be there.36
                  
                    
            
            According to Mr. Noel, who is given credit for being the individual most responsible for the Public
                    Accounting Law—and the fact that he was chosen chief speaker at the twenty-fifth
                    anniversary observance lends support to this assumption—the public accounting idea was
                    introduced in a bill by Representative A. M. Glossbrenner, a legislator in 1899. Mr. Noel, who was
                    also sitting as a legislator at the time, remembered this bill. When the committee of the
                    Merchants' Association at the end of its investigations asked Noel what the next step
                    should be, the idea from Noel's political experience was the one the committee chose to act
                    on. The remedy for graft therefore was not supplied by the business community. First,
                    non-businessmen were called upon for advice: Brand Whitlock, mayor of 
                        Toledo
                    ; William Allen White, 
                  Emporia, Kansas
               , editor; 
                        Lincoln
                     Steffens, muckraking writer and editor; and William T. Jerome, a public official of 
                        New York
                    . According to the News of October 16, 1908, these were the men to
                    whom the Merchants' Association turned. Judge Hanna, a former public officer, was employed
                    to draft the measure. And Judge Hanna did not turn to current business practices for a model to make
                    the uniform accounting and auditing idea concrete. He went to 
                        Ohio
                    , studied the 1902 auditing act of that state, accepted most of it, and embodied as
                    improvements features which Ohio public officials had tried but failed to get into their own law.37
            
            The secondary arguments of the Merchants' Association were: first, such a multiplicity of
                    systems of public accounting as existed, nearly all of which were inadequate, gave 
                  
                     36
                            Ibid., October 15, 1908.
                  
                     37 "XXV Anniversary Addresses,"
                        30–31.
               
                     chaotic results; and second, that expense of local government
                    was inordinate. In suggesting reforms, the committee linked these two reasons and added a moral
                    overtone. The following release to the News combined the various ideas neatly:
                    "The spectacle of honest men coming into public office and being made grafters because of
                    the possibilities of the system, if not on account of its actual invitation, was even more appalling
                    than the millions of dollars of increase in taxes and in the city and the county debt."38
            
            In his speech at 
                        Richmond
                    , Noel went into the problem at greater length when he said: 
                        "What Indiana needs first of all is a uniform system of public accounts for city,
                            township and county officers. There are in Indiana more than 1,000 township trustees and
                            they are without any prescribed system of bookkeeping. Some of them, few of them I believe,
                            do keep intelligent sets of books, but there are many others who apparently do not keep any
                            books. There is absolutely no system of auditing the accounts of trustees, and unless there
                            is some suspicion of wrong doing the accounts of a trustee are never subjected to
                            inspection.
                        "We are asking that the system of uniform accounts be such that the business of a
                            county office may be audited in two days instead of in two months. So diversified are the
                            systems now used in Indiana county offices that it is a tremendous job to make an audit of
                            the affairs, and especially is this the case among the smarter officers who belong to the
                            dishonest class, for they are able to so juggle the accounts that wrong doing can not be
                            easily detected.
                        "The rat hole in which most of our taxes go is the local governments…. It
                            is in the local affairs that the system is lax and which we now seek to remedy.39
                  
                    
            
            The committee chose three methods to rally support for its program. The first and more generalized
                    approach was to use newspaper publicity to develop support from the general public. With the 
                        Indianapolis
                     newspapers the committee was very successful. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star gave space, both news columns and editorials, and the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News adopted the Merchants' Association's views so
                    enthusiastically that its vigorous efforts for reform constituted a crusade. The second method used
                    to solidify public opinion in favor of the program was organization of the support of civic groups
                    throughout the city and the whole state. And finally, 
                  
                     38
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, October 15, 1908.
                  
                     39
                            Ibid., November 19, 1908.
               
                     candidates for office were asked to affirm support of the
                    measure.
            Mr. Noel tells how the press relations were handled. According to him, neither of the two 
                        Indianapolis
                     papers knew exactly where the other paper was getting its copy. Noel goes on to say,
                    "But Mr. Hilton U. Brown, Mr. William Bobbs and myself met day after day at 5:00
                    o'clock in the evening and provided copy on this particular subject for the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Star one day and for the News the next day; and so we kept them
                        going."40 The publication of the official Merchants'
                    Association platform in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News started the newspaper campaign.41 The amount of material
                    from the Merchants' Association which the 
                        Indianapolis
                     papers published is surprisingly large.
            In an editorial entitled "A Patriotic Movement," the Star said:
                        
                        The Merchants' Association deserves the gratitude of all good citizens for the
                            earnest manner in which it has gone into the matter of more honest and efficient
                            administration of our city and county affairs.
                        We commend the committee's report, not only to the general public, but especially to
                            nominees of all parties for the Legislature, whose attention will be drawn to them [the
                            proposed reforms], and, we hope, with favorable response.42
                  
                     Since the Star was supporting the local Republican candidates, and since
                    Republicans had been in office at the time of the scandals, such publicity as the Star gave to the Merchants' Association propaganda was putting the public interest
                    above partisanship. The fuller and more enthusiastic support of the News, however,
                    may have forced the Star to publish some of the Merchants' Association
                    releases. The Star's position was an uneasy one, as the following excerpt
                    from an editorial of October 17, reveals: 
                        Nothing is more preposterous than the claims made by local Democrats that their county ticket
                            should be elected as a sort of reward of merit to the party because of the noble and arduous
                            work of Albert Sahm and Prosecutor Hooten in unearthing Republican infamy in the Court House
                            and in bringing its perpetrators to justice.
                    
                    
                  
                     40 "XXV Anniversary Addresses," 27–28.
                  
                     41
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, October 13, 1908.
                  
                     42
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Stair, October 14, 1908.
               
                     The Prosecutor Hooten—Commissioner McGregor affair
                    required very delicate handling. On one hand, the prosecutor would be berated by the Star for failing to obtain a conviction; but on the other, Commissioner McGregor would not
                    be denounced, for after all he had not been convicted.
            The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News, however, gave wholehearted support to Merchants' Association
                    reforms. An independent paper with strong Republican leanings, the News was a
                    local enigma. The controlling financial interest was not generally known, and the News vigorously attacked both Republican and Democratic political figures. In addition to
                    publishing the Merchants' Association platform in full, the News
                    published under a four-column headline—"MERCHANTS' ASSOCIATION PLATFORM
                    AMPLIFIED"—a point by point interpretation of the platform. The interpretation
                    of the first of the sixteen planks which follows is typical: 
                        Provide a uniform system of county, township and city accounts and centralize their
                            supervision in the State Auditor.
                        [The News then went on to interpret this first point.] Fix by law a
                            business system and an honest standard which will make dishonesty and irregularity in public
                            office as difficult as possible, and which will make its detection easy and certain.43
                  
                     Day after day the News published detailed interpretative editorials in
                    support of the program. The titles tell the story quite well—"Abolish the Fee
                    System," "Stockholders' Meeting November 3."44
            
            Probably the most effective support given the Merchants' Association's plan was the
                    work of William H. Blodgett. As mentioned earlier, Blodgett was sent to rake over county seat
                    scandals throughout the state and to show that local government was badly in need of state
                    supervision. His articles were given a prominent place in the News, generally on
                    the front page. The style of writing that Blodgett used was neither sober nor factual; it was florid
                    and labored at times, but its intent was to create public revulsion and disgust toward dishonest
                    local government and its practitioners. Blodgett's lead on a story re-exposing a
                    $41,000 shortage in a county treasury read: "The chronicles of King Graft and
                    his consort, Fee Grabbing, including their progeny Defalcation, 
                  
                     43
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, October 17, 1908.
                  
                     44 This editorial refers to the election of 1908.
               
                     Embezzlement, Perjury, Forgery and the delectable twins, Grand
                    and Petit Larceny, read like a page torn from the adventures of Captain Kidd."45
                    
                  South Bend, Evansville, Terre Haute, New Castle, Martinsville,
                            Bloomington, La
                        Porte, Wabash
               , and 
                        Princeton
                     were county seats from which Blodgett reported scandals before the 1908 election. After
                    the election he continued his tour of county seats reporting additional scandals and getting pledges
                    from elected legislators for support of the Merchants' Association platform.
            The News also cooperated with the Merchants' Association in reporting on 
                        Ohio
                    's Bureau of Inspection and Supervision of Public Offices which had been
                    created in 1902. Judge Charles T. Hanna had been sent to Ohio by the Merchants' Association
                    to confer with Allen R. Foote, of 
                        Columbus
                    , who had drafted the Ohio law.46 The News sent a
                    reporter, E. I. Lewis, with him. The success of the Ohio law was made graphically clear by such
                    headlines as these: 
                        CROOKED OFFICIALS BEHIND THE BARS
                        Ohio Inspection Law Soon Finds Out Dishonest Officeholders Day of the Fee Grabber Has Passed
                            in the Buckeye State47
                  
                     Lewis also wrote hard-hitting prose, though it was probably not so inflammatory as
                    Blodgett's. A typical lead of his follows: 
                        Ohio has found that she can not make all dishonest public officials honest by legislation and
                            the result is that the State's Bureau of Inspection and Supervision of Public
                            Officials is responsible for a number of former prominent Buckeyes being behind the bars of
                            the State's penitentiary.48
                  
                     In his final story from 
                        Columbus
                    , Lewis reviewed the recent Indiana scandals and attempted to show that under the Ohio
                    law they would have been prevented or would have been quickly detected.49
            
            
               
                  45
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, October 23, 1908.
               
                  46 "XXV Anniversary Addresses," 30.
               
                  47
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, November 12, 1908.
               
                        48
                        Ibid.
                    
               
                        49
                        Ibid.
                    
            
            
            Once the newspaper campaign was under way, the Merchants' Association committee formed a
                    state-wide organization to rally support for its plans. First, 
                        Indianapolis
                     civic clubs and trade associations were enrolled. Seven 
                        Indianapolis
                     groups were asked to appoint four representatives each to meet with four
                    Merchants' Association representatives to form a committee of thirty-two. Some of the
                    associations asked to send representatives were the Commercial Club, the Manufacturers'
                    Association, the Central Labor Union, and the Clearing House Association. Despite the
                    Merchants' Association's efforts to widen their base of support in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the multi-organization committee remains shadowy. The newspapers do not state
                    positively that such an organization came into existence. The Merchants' Association
                    representatives—Dougherty and Woollen, Democrats, and Bobbs and Noel,
                    Republicans—remained the initiating and working element in the committee. In the Fourth Annual Report of the State Board of Accounts, a letter from the four men
                    named above is included. In it the credit is not taken exclusively by the Merchants'
                    Association group. "Its [the Public Accounting Law's] enactment was proposed by
                    the Merchants' Association of 
                        Indianapolis
                     and was secured by the combined efforts of the commercial and industrial interests of
                    the State…."50 Certainly there was a multiple-organization
                    committee, but whether it had thiry-two members or not cannot be determined. Mr. William C. Bobbs
                    was chairman of the combined committees. The executive committee was composed of J. K. Lilly,
                    chairman, William C. Bobbs, William Mooney, Henry Kahn, and E. A. Perkins. Members of the committee
                    on bills were Augustus L. Mason, chairman, Evans Woollen, James W. Noel, Merrill Moores, and P. P.
                    Williams. The committee on organization was headed by F. M. Ayres, with H. O. Smith, Gustave
                    Schaull, John Perrin, and 
                        Franklin
                     Vonnegut completing the group. Additional committees on legislation and finance were
                        appointed.51
            
            There was a vigorous attempt to organize and rally the state-wide support of the commercial and
                    industrial interests. 
                  
                     50 Indiana, State Board of Accounts, Department of Inspection and
                            Supervision of Public Offices, Fourth Annual Report
                            [1913–1914], pp. 13, 14.
                  
                     51
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, November 16, 1908.
               
                     The Star of October 15, 1908, revealed the
                    plan by announcing: "Copies of the platform and other literature bearing on the subject
                    have been sent out to every county seat town in the state requesting the civic bodies to take up the
                    matter and work to secure the legislation advocated in the platform." Whether the Committee
                    had actually received considerable support or whether it was using a "bandwagon"
                    technique, the News of October 16 said: 
                        "The Merchants' Association is highly elated over the enthusiastic
                            reception of its platform in every quarter, and the responses not only from the city but
                            from over the State, give definite assurance of completing the large organization
                            contemplated by the association for the purpose of working this platform into
                        law."
                     Support, however, did come to the 
                        Indianapolis
                     group. The newspapers record the following groups that endorsed the plan: Indiana
                    Retail Hardware Association, civic associations of 
                        Terre Haute
                     and 
                        Evansville
                    , the State Federation of Labor, New 
                        Albany
                     Commercial Club, Young Men's Business Club and the Retail Merchants'
                    Association of 
                        Terre Haute
                    , and the 
                        Muncie
                     Commercial Club. Doubtless many other groups also gave their support. There was also
                    developed a statewide organization built upon the thirteen congressional districts, but very little
                    information concerning it is available. This organization was, however, to prove its value when the
                    need arose.
            The Merchants' Association sent speakers to various cities of the state to stimulate
                    interest and encourage further support of its platform. For example, James W. Noel was sent to 
                        Richmond
                     to give the chief address to the Indiana Federation of Commercial Clubs.52 There are indications that the Federation was created to organize support for the
                    Merchants' Association platform; in any case, it endorsed the association platform. Judge
                    Charles T. Hanna, who was "employed by the association in the drawing of the
                    measure" which was to be submitted to the legislature at the coming session, spoke to a
                    Tipton audience on the proposed bill and upon the working of the Ohio law.53
            
            The next step taken by the organization formed by the Merchants' Association was the direct
                    one of attempting to 
                  
                     52
                            Ibid., November 19, 1908.
                  
                     53
                            Ibid., December 19, 1908.
               
                     influence persons who would have determining roles in the
                    enactment of the measure. The most important person to convert was, of course, the incoming
                    governor. It was also necessary to enlist the members of the general assembly, as well as those who
                    could bring strong pressure directly upon the legislators.
            The Merchants' Association of 
                        Indianapolis
                     naturally turned first to the 
                        Marion County
                     candidates for the general assembly. The strong public opinion aroused by disclosures
                    of local graft forced candidates of both parties to support the proposed reform. On the day
                    following the publication of the Merchants' Association platform in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News, both Democratic and Republican candidates from 
                        Marion County
                     responded. The Republicans agreed to support the proposed reforms, and the Democrats
                    assented to them with the statement: "‘Permit us to say that we endorse and
                    commend your suggestions and, if elected, we will use every effort to carry them into
                        effect.’"54
            
            The attempt to enlist candidates and, later, elected officials from elsewhere in the state was not so
                    successful as it had been in 
                        Marion County
                    . None of the elected legislators interviewed by Blodgett expressed opposition to the
                    proposal, but many gave lukewarm endorsements with escape clauses. Several legislators expressed
                    general approval but said they would have to see the specific measures embodied in a bill before
                    they would commit themselves.
            Gaining Governor Thomas R. Marshall's support was considered as the most difficult, the most
                    delicate, and the most necessary task of all. Marshall, first of all, was a strong Democrat,
                    sincerely believing in local self-government. The ballot box, Marshall thought, was the device to
                    rid a community of incompetent or dishonest officials. The Democrats, moreover, had justified their
                    local option stand on liquor regulation by making it a part of local self-government. In his speech
                    at the anniversary banquet, Adolph Seidensticker graphically portrayed the Democratic position:
                    "I will call your attention to the fact we had a big liquor scrap at that time on the
                    question of county or township local option, and we Democrats were all shouting from the housetops,
                    ‘Local self-government! Local self-government! The smallest possible 
                  
                     54
                            Ibid., October 14, 1908.
               
                     unit!’"55 Though his
                    public utterances had been noncommittal, Governor Marshall was considered hostile to the proposed
                    reforms. A series of dinners was held by the Combined Committee, to which legislators and public
                    officials were invited. Finally, a "crucial dinner" (Noel's phrase) was
                    held and the governor was invited. Noel was entrusted with the job of converting him to the
                    reformers' views. Noel does not tell what arguments he used, but he does give a vivid
                    picture: 
                        They put upon me the job of explaining that bill. It seemed to me that I was on my feet at
                            least two hours under the interrogation and replying to the criticisms of the governor. He
                            had a copy of the bill before him. He analyzed it. "It will not do. [Governor
                            Marshall said.] That is not democratic. You can't come into our communities and
                            interfere with our local self-governments. I won't stand for it."
                        We had to convince him we were not going to control the discretion of the local officers at
                            all in expenditure of money, that we simply wanted a system of accounts that was
                            intelligible and uniform so the auditors would know how to examine them quickly, and all we
                            wanted to do from the state house was to catch local thieves and require honesty in official
                            life. Finally, at the end of a long discussion, the Governor said: "I am for this
                            bill and I will do everything I can to get it passed." And from that time on he
                                did.56
                  
                    
            
            The late Ross Teckemeyer, a former field examiner, believed that Governor Marshall was strongly
                    disposed toward the idea of state supervision of local officers before the Merchants'
                    Association had the public accounting bill drawn. Teckemeyer wrote: 
                        Governor Marshall while practicing law handled a lucrative case in a county adjoining his
                            home. His fee was to be paid through the clerk of the court in that county, but when
                            Governor Marshall attempted to collect this fee he found that the clerk had embezzled all
                            the trust funds held by him and that the fee to which Marshall was entitled was among the
                            funds embezzled. The only recourse he had was against the clerk's bond, which had
                            been fixed by the local county officers in such a way that it paid about ten cents on the
                            dollar. Upon becoming Governor, Marshall was very anxious that some supervision be made of
                            local officers….57
                  
                     Mr. Teckemeyer was on assignment in 1923 in the county where the embezzlement had occurred.
                    Having heard the 
                  
                     55 "XXV Anniversary Addresses," 16.
                  
                     56
                            Ibid., 33.
                  
                     57 From an unpublished manuscript statement on administrative agencies
                            of the state of Indiana, by Ross Teckemeyer, which Teckemeyer loaned this writer.
               
                     story of Marshall's loss from several people in the
                    courthouse, he checked the records and found it to be true.58 And though Noel
                    flatly states that the governor firmly opposed the idea of state supervision of local officers when
                    it was originally presented to him, Governor Marshall's own unhappy experience with one
                    local officer may have made him receptive to Noel's arguments.
            The third element in the campaign was the plan for conciliation, or at least neutralization, of the
                    county and township officers. These were the groups that had killed the Glossbrenner bill in 1899.
                    Under the pressure of these groups, supported by the representatives of the office supply houses,
                    the legislature had kept the Glossbrenner bill in committee. In their dealings with these groups,
                    the Merchants' Association committee used a legislative technique. Various groups of county
                    officers appointed committees to meet with the association's legislative committee. On
                    December 18, 1908, the News reported that the Association of County Assessors
                    voted unanimously to support the Merchants' Association bill; the County Auditors'
                    Association and the County Clerks' Association also voted unanimously to support the bill.
                    The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News of December 23,1908, in reporting the action, stated that "more than
                    forty clerks and auditors" voted in support of the bill. The number attending, of course,
                    was a good bit less than one-quarter of those eligible to attend. Still, the Merchants'
                    Association had reason to think that the bill would be enacted without strong opposition.
            On January 1, 1909, the public accounting bill drawn by the legislative committee of the Combined
                    Committee was published in full in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News. The provisions of this bill for state supervision of public offices and
                    institutions in Indiana had several sources. The Glossbrenner bill of 1899, mentioned earlier, had
                    supplied Noel with the basic idea. But a similar bill enacted by Ohio in 1902 affected the drafting
                    of the Indiana bill more directly than any other single influence.59
            
            
               
                        58
                        Ibid.
                    
               
                  59 In the first session of its legislature in 1890, however, 
                            Wyoming
                         had created the office of state examiner; its holder was to be a "skilled
                        accountant" appointed by the governor. In addition to prescribing a "correct,
                        and as far as practicable, uniform system of bookkeeping by state and county officers,"
                        he was to inspect the accounts of the state and county treasurers. Moreover, he was required to
                        inspect all banks. 
                            Wyoming
                        , Session Laws (1890), Chap. 84, pp. 358–362.
            
            
            The Ohio law establishing a Bureau of Inspection and Supervision had been drafted by Allen R. Foote,
                    of 
                        Columbus
                    , then president of the International Tax Association, and Lawson Purdy, who had served
                    as comptroller of 
                        New York City
                     for many years.60 But Ohio was not so fortunate as Indiana had
                    been, for James W. Noel remembered that: "The law formulated by Mr. Foote and Mr. Purdy and
                    public spirited citizens, in Ohio got into a legislature that was not bipartisan, and it was
                    butchered pretty nearly as badly as the republican senate butchered this [Indiana] bill before it
                    got over to the house."61
            
            The Ohio law established a Bureau of Inspection and Supervision of Public Offices under the direction
                    of the auditor of state. The authority to prescribe uniform systems of accounting was granted, as
                    well as the duty of inspecting all state and local offices. Refusal or neglect of public officers to
                    follow the bureau's instructions could be punished by removal from office.62 Though greatly influenced by the Ohio law, the Indiana act varied significantly, and the
                    changes were designed to create a stronger agency than the Ohio law provided.
            The Indiana law provided for a Department of Inspection and Supervision (a department instead of a
                    bureau) to be headed by a state examiner appointed by the governor. Two deputy examiners of
                    differing party affiliation were also to be appointed by the governor. The state examiner was to
                    receive $4,000 a year and the deputies $3,000. Field examiners were to be
                    appointed by the state examiner and be paid $10 for each working day, which was double
                    the daily salary allowed Ohio field examiners.
            Instead of being within a department and headed by an ex officio elective officer,
                    as was the case under the Ohio law, the Indiana Department of Inspection and Supervision of Public
                    Offices was placed under the State Board of Accounts. Composed of governor, auditor of state, and
                    state examiner, this board was charged with formulating, prescribing, and installing a system of
                    accounting and reporting which would be uniform for each office and public account in the same
                    class.
            
               
                  60 "XXV Anniversary Addresses," 29–30.
               
                  61
                        Ibid., 30.
               
                  62
                        
                            Ohio
                        , General and Local Acts (1902), Vol. XCV, pp.
                    511–515.
            
            
            As in the Ohio law, provision was made for separate accounts for each department, undertaking,
                    institution, and public service. Comparative statistics were to be compiled from financial reports
                    as the Ohio law also stipulated. The Ohio law did not so clearly grant the auditor of state the
                    power to prescribe the forms used as did the Indiana act.
            Powers and duties of the field examiners are outlined in much greater detail in the Indiana than in
                    the Ohio act. The Indiana penalty section provides a fine of $100 to $1,000
                    and removal; whereas the Ohio law has only removal from office as penalty for neglect or refusal to
                    cooperate with the examiners.
            The Indiana law requires that the record of fees and salaries of public officers be available to the
                    public; no such provision existed in the original Ohio law. Other provisions made in Indiana, but
                    not in 
                        Ohio
                    , include a penalty for bribery and definitions of municipality, public office, and
                    public service industries. The Indiana law also provides that the uniform bookkeeping system may not
                    be copyrighted. The Ohio law calls only for annual examinations; the Indiana statute provides that
                    examinations "shall be made without notice," and the giving of notice, directly or
                    indirectly, carries a $500 fine or six months imprisonment. The original Indiana act is
                    longer (23 sections to 10) and more complete than the Ohio statute.
            One notable advance over the Ohio bill was embodied in the Indiana law's provision that
                    field examiners were to be selected only after passing an "open, competitive
                    examination…practical in character." Such a provision represents the first
                    application of the merit principle in Indiana state government. The merit idea, i.e., that
                    "all appointments of field examiners shall be made solely upon the ground of fitness and
                    without regard to political affiliation," was weakened, however, by the stipulation,
                    "excepting that no more than one half of the number of field examiners employed at any one
                    time shall belong to any one political party." This bipartisan application of a merit
                    principle, paradoxical as the phrase is, was the common sense sugar coating that made the idea
                    acceptable. This merit principle of selection, provided for in Section 8, though weakened by the
                    bipartisan stipulation, certainly has been of significance in establishing  the high esprit de corps for which the Department of
                    Inspection and Supervision of Public Offices is noted.
            The source of the provision for the recruitment and selection of field examiners cannot be
                    determined. It was not in the bill of the Combined Committee published in the News
                    of January 1, 1909. Neither was it added by Senate or House amendment; therefore, perhaps it was in
                    the bill as introduced by Senator Oscar E. Bland on January 12. Whether the bill was revised by one
                    of the members of the Combined Committee or whether some outside mind made this valuable suggestion
                    cannot be determined. No records can be discovered; interviews and correspondence with the few
                    possible sources do not reveal to whom credit is due. Possibly Foote, of 
                        Columbus
                    , or Purdy, of 
                        New York
                    , where a merit system had already been in effect for more than twenty-five years, was
                    responsible for the recruitment provision. Or perhaps 
                        Lincoln
                     Steffens had written to Judge Hanna, Bobbs, or Noel between January 1 and January 12.
                    Certainly this idea, one of the most distinctive in the law, was a late thought. It does not appear
                    in any form whatever in the amplification of the Merchants' Association platform, in
                    Noel's speech at 
                        Richmond
                    , nor in any of the copy with which Noel and Bobbs supplied the 
                        Indianapolis
                     newspapers.
            By January of 1909, the bill for uniform accounting and the inspection of public offices prepared by
                    the Combined Committee was a matter of public record. It had been shown to the county and township
                    officers; it had been published in full in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News. A strong organization to publicize the reforms had carried information into
                    every county. The Combined Committee now had only to decide in which house the bill should be
                    introduced and by whom.
            In 
                        Marion County
                     the investigation and exposure of graft in local offices, action which had been
                    supported by the Merchants' Association, resulted in a very strong swing from the
                    Republicans to the Democrats. For example, an editorial in the November 4, 1908, issue of the News said, "The voters of 
                        Marion County
                     were determined to clean out the court house. They made a thorough job of it."
                    Though the Committee had made a point of the bill's nonpartisan nature, it was decided that
                    the Republicans most needed to be conciliated. A member of the 1909 general assembly, Adolph
                    Seidensticker, recalled that since the Republicans  had retained
                    control of the Senate, "it was thought expedient to have it [the bill] introduced by
                    Senator [Oscar E.] Bland, a pretty staunch Republican, afterwards congressman from Linton,
                        Indiana."63
                    
                        Marion County
                     legislators had publicly announced support of the reforms and since the bill was
                    chiefly developed by 
                        Indianapolis
                     men, it was thought expedient to have a legislator from outside 
                        Marion County
                     introduce the measure. In addition, Senator Bland led the Senate alphabetically and
                    thus could introduce the measure immediately after the traditional bill to pay the legislative
                    expenses.
            In the House careful preparation was made, as Seidensticker revealed: 
                        Then I began to play a few of my own cards, because I was sold on this proposition. In
                            connection with the speaker-ship fight, I helped swing the 
                                Marion County
                             delegation of eight votes to Tom Honan and asked as my pay for that that I be
                            appointed on the Committee of Township and County Business, because it had been determined
                            in advance this bill creating the State Board of Accounts would go to that committee.64
                  
                     Preparations had, however, been made in both houses. And Governor Marshall strongly
                    supported the bill in his message to the general assembly. The theme of his speech was built upon
                    the question, "Can we not have integrity, competency, good service and economy in public
                    offices in Indiana?" Developing the point "integrity," Marshall said:
                        
                        In the interests of integrity I recommend that you put every official in Indiana upon a
                            fixed, definite and certain salary, to which, by no construction of law, shall any sum be
                            ever added; the adoption of a uniform system of bookkeeping so guarded that it can not be
                            copyrighted; the examination of public records at irregular intervals in such a manner as
                            will not interfere with the right of local self-government; the auditing of all public
                            accounts, showing in every instance upon such account the original contract or the section
                            of the statute authorizing the payment of the money and requiring all vouchers issued in
                            pursuance thereto to have a like showing…,65
                  
                    
            
            The bill was introduced by Senator Bland on the first day that bills were received, Tuesday, January
                    12. It became 
                  
                     63 "XXV Anniversary Addresses," 15.
                  
                            64
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     65 Indiana, Journal of the Senate, 1909, pp. 96,
                        97.
               
                     Senate Bill Number Two and occasionally was referred to as the
                    "Bland Bill." Both the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News and Star, however, called it the
                    "Merchants' Association bill." It was referred to the Committee on County
                    and Township Business, and on January 27 the bill was reported out. Majority and minority reports
                    were offered. Of the eight Republicans on the committee, six (Edgar D. Kling, Oscar E. Bland, T. R.
                    Brady, Clamor Pelzer, Edward E. Moore, and Donald McCallum) recommended that the bill "do
                    pass"; two Republicans (Linton A. Cox and Ralph K. Kane) did not sign this majority report.
                    Two Democrats (Samuel L. Benz and William F. Ranke) recommended that the bill be postponed
                    indefinitely. Harry E. Grube, the third Democratic member of the committee, did not sign the report.
                    The minority report was voted down and the majority report accepted. The first revelation of party
                    attitudes, then, showed that the Republicans favored the bill, while the Democrats opposed it. The
                    bill passed the second reading on February 2 without amendments except for grammatical changes by
                    Senator Kling. On February 3, Senator Bland moved that the bill be made a special order of business
                    for February 10. On February 10, Senator Mattingly, Republican, offered amendments that weakened the
                    bill considerably. The vote on whether the amendments should be accepted was strictly along party
                    lines, with the Republicans in support of the amended bill and the Democrats in opposition. A
                    notable shift had occurred, however. In the committee and on the second reading the Republicans had
                    supported the bill as written by the Combined Committee's specialists. Now they reversed
                    themselves and supported an entirely new version, one which badly weakened the plans for uniform
                    accounting and the inspection of public offices. Just what caused the reversal by the Republican
                    senators cannot be determined, but there is some evidence indicating the reason for the switch.
            Adolph Seidensticker, a Democrat, spoke of the opposition the original bill encountered:
                    "And these township trustees had been busy and the clerks had been busy and the State
                    Auditors' Association had been busy, and there were more rocks in the path of that bill
                    than you ever had conception of."66 When it is recalled that
                    Seidensticker was 
                  
                     66 "XXV Anniversary Addresses," 16.
               
                     speaking before a highly select group, one that would award
                    merit to those persons and groups that supported the act creating the agency that employed them; and
                    when it is remembered that Seidensticker revealed the hesitation and reluctance that the Democratic
                    legislators showed toward this bill, then his evidence seems valuable.
            Noel, a Republican who was very proud of the State Board of Accounts and his part in the creation of
                    the law establishing it, substantially echoes Seidensticker's views: 
                        What the Republican senate did to that bill was something terrible. It had had the assistance
                            of the supply houses, the publishing houses, the township trustees and the county
                            officers' association in just committing absolute destruction. It was mutilated and
                            sent to the House worthless.67
                  
                     Blodgett of the News, in his on-the-spot observations, gave the same
                    interpretation: 
                        The bill was introduced in the Senate by Senator Bland, a Republican, and no one for a moment
                            supposed that there would spring up any great opposition to a measure that had the
                            indorsement of the taxpayers of the State, but it was not long until the hydra-headed county
                            officers' association began getting in its work.
                        Then came an assault on the bill. The county officers, the sheriffs, the auditors, the
                            clerks, the recorders, township trustees and other minor officials started a war on the
                            bill, and some of the State officers and some of the employees of the State officers joined
                            in the hue and cry and tried to mob it, as it were. Then the Republican Senators began
                            playing politics….68
                  
                    
            
            The two 
                        Indianapolis
                     newspapers editorialized that the Republican senators had amended the
                    Merchants' Association bill into a partisan measure. The Republican Star
                    said, "It is greatly to be deplored that the party leaders in the Legislature seem
                    determined to make a party question of the merchants' public accounting bill, and
                    especially deplored that the Republican leaders seem to have been the first to move in this
                        direction."69 The independent News was more
                    stinging in its attack on the Republican senators: 
                  
                     67
                            Ibid., 33–34.
                  
                     68
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, February 26, 1909.
                  
                     69
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, February 11, 1909.
               
                    
                    
                        No one of all the disinterested business men who shared in the preparation of the bill saw or
                            dreamed of politics in it. It was introduced by a Republican Senator, recommended by a
                            Republican committee and advanced to third reading by a Republican Senate, all in its
                            original nonpartisan form. The Senate might, therefore, have passed the bill without raising
                            question or objection, but in an evil hour the politicians in and outside of the Senate
                            sought to convert the bill into a political instrument.70
                  
                    
            
            The comment of the legislators is somewhat scanty, but what evidence exists points in one
                    direction—the Republican senators, under political and economic pressure, weakened the
                    bill after the second reading. Senator Frank M. Kistler (Democrat) and Senator Eland's
                    sparring over the amended bill was reported in the Star: 
                        "Did not the bill provide that the Governor make the appointments when you
                            introduced it?" asked Senator Kistler.
                        "Yes; but I had a better opinion of the Governor then than I have now," was
                            the reply.
                        "The bill was a partisan measure when it was introduced and it is a partisan measure
                            now," said Senator Bland, "but the other side is objecting now because it
                            is a Republican party measure instead of a Democratic one."71
                  
                     This last statement of Senator Eland's is a rather astonishing admission; but,
                    because of the shift in the party attitude, he was placed in an embarrassing position.
            The amendments which weakened the bill were written by a committee of seven appointed at a Republican
                    caucus. The committee, headed by Senator Springer, was composed of Senators Moore, Mattingly, Bland,
                    Crumpacker, Kling, and Pearson. Just who made the specific decisions on the changes and whether
                    these changes were actually the invention of committee members or of outside persons with influence
                    in the committee cannot be determined. Whatever the inspiration or sources, however, changes were
                    made by a responsible Republican group and became official Republican policy.
            The committee's objections to the original bill seem interesting and significant, because
                    some of them embody 
                  
                     70
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, February 26, 1909.
                  
                     71
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, February 24, 1909.
               
                     objections that the State Board of Accounts was to face in its
                    early years. The most important change proposed by the Republican Senate was that the board should
                    be formed by the secretary of state, state treasurer, the governor, and two deputies of opposite
                    political faith. The elimination of the office of state examiner, with strong power clearly in the
                    hands of its holder, would have weakened the agency tremendously. The Republican senators'
                    argument was that the move was prompted by economy. This point was emphasized strongly because one
                    of Governor Marshall's campaign pledges had been that he would operate the state government
                    with greater economy than had his Republican predecessors. The board that was to be created by the
                    Republican senators' bill would at that time have been dominated by the Republicans. Under
                    the Merchants' Association bill the governor would of course be in a position to dominate
                    the board. The Republican amendments also changed the title from State Board of Accounts to Board of
                    Inspection and Supervision.
            The second important amendment concerned the field examiners. The one hundred field men allowed by
                    the original bill was cut to twenty-five in the Senate bill, and their pay was reduced from ten
                    dollars to six dollars a day. There were twenty-four amendments in all, one of them a new section
                    providing that anyone failing to comply with the forms or rulings of the board was guilty of a
                    misdemeanor and subject to a $100 fine.72
            
            This amended bill was passed by the Senate on February 10; the vote of twenty-seven to twenty-three
                    was strictly on party lines. In the House, where the Democrats had a sixty to forty majority, the
                    bill was referred to the Committee on County and Township Business, headed by Representative
                    Seidensticker. The official action of the Democratic legislators, from the viewpoint of one
                    sympathetic to the State Board of Accounts, was above reproach. But twenty-five years after the
                    event, Seidensticker revealed that his party carried out this reform with considerable hesitation
                    and under pressure that threatened an intra-party split. His remarks, in the proceedings of the
                    twenty-fifth anniversary banquet of the State Board of Accounts and in an interview 
                  
                     72 Indiana, Journal of the Senate, 1909, pp.
                            535–541.
               
                     granted the writer in November, 1947, emphasized Democratic
                    reluctance.
            The Committee on County and Township Business changed the Senate-amended bill back to its original
                    form. "We politely made a committee report in which we recommended that they strike out all
                    of the enacting clause and put it back in the original bill," Seidensticker recalls.73 But the party attitude had not yet become fixed. The Democratic legislators
                    held a caucus on the Senate's bill, discussing it in the light of the measure as originally
                    drawn. According to Seidensticker, most discussion of the original measure must have been negative,
                    for only two members of the caucus spoke in favor of the bill as originally drawn. When a vote was
                    taken to establish the party policy, only eight men were in favor of the bill as drawn by the
                    Combined Committee. According to Seidensticker, the rest of the Democrats hid behind the
                    freedom-of-local-government idea. Though lengthy, the night caucus was therefore highly negative.
                    "So, here I was with all my dreams and plans seemingly flattened out,"74 Seidensticker said at the twenty-fifth anniversary banquet.
            How the Democratic viewpoint was changed can best be told in Seidensticker's words: 
                        In the morning I went to the Governor's office, and the Governor said, "I
                            will see some of the local Democrats, and you see them get together at noon." So,
                            we had a caucus in the Speaker's room. Mr. Fogarty happened to be the democratic
                            county chairman. We had James Holson, James L. Reach. They came and laid down
                                the law from a political standpoint,75 what they thought about
                            the passage of this bill. It was determined at that caucus a committee of seven would be
                            appointed. I was the one who made the motion to meet with the Governor.
                        We went to the Governor's office that afternoon, and I was the only one of the
                            committee of seven that was favorable to the bill. We sat in the Governor's office
                            from 4:00 o'clock until 7:00. At that time if I didn't have any admiration
                            before that, I did have, but I just became absolutely sold on Governor 
                        
                           73 "XXV Anniversary Addresses," 16.
                        
                           74
                                    Ibid., 17.
                        
                           75 Italics are this writer's. In an interview,
                                    November, 1947, Mr. Seidensticker said that, as he remembers it, the 
                                        Marion County
                                     politicians did not say a word about the intrinsic value of the bill.
                                    They argued strict political expedience, i.e., pass the bill as originally written
                                    and get credit for it, or force the Republicans to kill it and then saddle them with
                                    the blame.
                     
                             Marshall, because single handed, alone, and he was
                            dealing with some pretty good men—Mr. Stotsenberg [Stotsenburg] was on that
                            committee, he was a senator; [Frank M.] Kistler, of 
                                Logansport
                            , a keen lawyer—single handed, alone, Governor Marshall met every
                            objection, and there were plenty of them, to that bill. And he bowled them over, one after
                            another. When we went out of there, that committee was thoroughly whipped. And they made a
                            unanimous recommendation for the passage of the bill, and it was passed.
                        That is a little legislative history some of you never heard about.76
                  
                    
            
            Seidensticker mentions that except for himself, whom he referred to as "a young
                    punk," the committee of seven that met with the governor was made up of the outstanding
                    leaders among the Democrats. His inclusion on the committee resulted from his being chairman of the
                    House Committee on County and Township Business. After meeting each argument the committee
                    presented, Governor Marshall, according to Seidensticker, insisted that the Democratic legislators
                    get behind the bill as originally drawn.
            The House passed the bill as amended by its committee, i.e., restored to the form in which it was
                    introduced by Senator Bland, by a seventy-six to eight vote.77 Twenty-three
                    Republican representatives joined fifty-three Democrats to give it a top-heavy majority. Eight
                    Republicans voted against it. There was no explanation by the representatives who voted against the
                    measure, but some who voted "aye" explained their votes. Representative Talbott
                    (Republican), of 
                        Orange County
                    , declared that the House-amended bill had very little chance of being passed and went
                    on to say, "‘If I thought it stood any show of becoming a law, I would vote
                    against it,’" he said, "but as I have no fear of its passing, I will
                    vote ‘aye,’ because I favor a measure of this kind when it is drawn in the
                    right way.'"78 The Star of February 24 jibed
                    at such an attitude when it stated: "One of the most painful spectacles at the State House
                    is the sight of those stalwart Republicans who are strongly in favor of public accounting, but not
                    of the bill to carry it into effect." Several Democratic representatives stated that they
                    thought the 
                  
                     76 "XXV Anniversary Addresses," 17–18.
                  
                     77 Indiana, Journal of the House of Representatives,
                            1909, pp. 962–963.
                  
                     78
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, February 21, 1909.
               
                     salaries of the state examiner and the field examiners were too
                    high.
            The House-amended bill was returned to the Senate February 20. After a conference, the Democratic
                    senators announced that they would favor the bill as returned from the House. The Republican
                    senators, quite evidently under heavy pressure from both sides, had difficulty in deciding on their
                    proper course. According to the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star of February 24, they had held three conferences without reaching a decision.
                    Debate on the bill brought fireworks to the Senate floor. "Consideration of the
                    merchants' public accounting bill yesterday caused by far the most spirited debate of the
                    session in the Senate."79 All of the fireworks, however, were not
                    confined to the formal session. Noel was considered as being too vigorous in his presentation of the
                    merits of the bill as originally drawn and not sufficiently patient with the opposition, for the Star reported: 
                        Noel took exceptions to [Senator] Springer's calling him a "hired
                            attorney," and became so earnest in his arguments that other members of the Senate
                            feared he was going to strike Springer, and he was pushed, protesting all of the time, out
                            of the chamber proper into a side lobby.80
                  
                    
            
            By February 24, after considerable maneuvering, the Republican Senate had agreed to accept all of the
                    House amendments except the three-man board, which would be dominated by the governor and the state
                    examiner whom he appointed. Having given way on every other point, the senators felt the House
                    should concede to this alteration in the original plan. The House was invited to appoint members to
                    a conference committee on the bill. The House leaders were obliged to decide whether to accept the
                    Senate's version of a bipartisan board, which was in the Indiana tradition but which would
                    certainly weaken the effectiveness of the contemplated agency through diffusion of responsibility,
                    or to defy the Senate completely and risk affronting that body so that no legislation on public
                    accounting would be passed.
            Speaker Thomas M. Honan and other Democratic leaders decided to stand firm on their amended bill,
                    i.e., as drawn by 
                  
                     79
                            Ibid., February 24, 1909.
                  
                            80
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                     the Combined Committee. Representative James Garrard moved
                        
                        "that it is the sense of the House that the House stand by its amendments to Senate
                            bill No. 2 and that the request of the Senate for a conference on said amendments be not
                            complied with, and that the clerk of the House be instructed to notify the Senate
                                accordingly."81
                  
                     Republican representatives were less inclined to insist that the bill be left as it was.
                    For example, Representative King stated that he considered such a move to be unwise, saying that a
                    conference could do no harm and that refusal to meet the Senate halfway would impair the
                    bill's chance of passing. Representative Talbott said, "‘I assume that
                    we wish to do something in the way of a public accounting bill. The adoption of this motion will
                    absolutely defeat the bill.’"82 Representative William E.
                    Wider felt the salaries provided were too high; Representative Miles J. Furnas thought that some
                    compromise was necessary. But Democratic Representative Garrard insisted that since the bill had
                    been "thrashed out on the floor by the ablest members in the House, there was no reason for
                    receding from the position the House had taken."83
            
            The vote on Garrard's motion was nearly a party division, only King voted with fifty-seven
                    Democrats. The remaining thirty-nine Republicans voted against the motion, making a fifty-eight to
                    thirty-nine split to carry the motion. Senate indignation was high. The immediate reaction, as
                    reported by Blodgett in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News, was that the House had gone too far. "‘We have offered
                    to meet them,’" the Republican politicians said, "‘and they
                    will not meet us. Now, who is to blame if the merchants’ accounting and inspection bill
                    fails to become a law?'"84 Certainly if action had been taken
                    on February 25 the Senate would have killed the bill. But a great deal of pressure was put on the
                    Senate. Noel says: 
                        I don't think there was ever such a lobby of good citizens from 
                                Marion County
                             and from the state—bankers, officers of chambers of commerce, and
                            others—as there was on the day when this bill was called up. We had a lot of
                            republicans who 
                        
                           81
                                    
                                        Indianapolis
                                    
                                    News, February 26, 1909.
                        
                                    82
                                    Ibid.
                                
                        
                                    83
                                    Ibid.
                                
                        
                                    84
                                    Ibid.
                                
                     
                             did not want to give the democrats the advantage of
                            having passed this kind of bill.85
                  
                    
            
            The 
                        Indianapolis
                     newspapers vigorously attacked the Senate's stand. Blodgett of the News naturally led with a long story that threatened executive reprisal and
                    implied political motivation on the part of the Republican senators. Blodgett threatened to disclose
                    legislative nepotism and charged that the senators had deliberately allied themselves with dishonest
                    local officials when he wrote: 
                        The crossing of the roads has been reached by the Republican members of the Senate and the
                            question up to them now is whether they will part company with the people of Indiana and
                            travel with the politicians and a lot of men who make public grafting a business, or will
                            stand by the tax-papers [sic] of Indiana and pass the merchants'
                            public accounting bill.86
                  
                    
            
            The senators reconsidered their stand against the House-amended bill. On February 27, 1909,
                    Republican Senator Cox, of 
                        Marion
                    , moved "that the Senate recede from the position it has heretofore taken by
                    which it refused to concur in the House amendments to Engrossed Senate Bill No. 2, and that this
                    Senate do now concur in said House amendments to said Engrossed Senate Bill No. 2."87 Fifteen Republican senators joined the twenty-three Democrats to make
                    thirty-eight votes in favor of the motion. Six Republican senators voted in opposition, and six more
                    did not vote. Governor Marshall signed the bill March 4, 1909.
            
               
                  85 "XXV Anniversary Addresses," 34–35.
               
                  86
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, February 27, 1909.
               
                  87 Indiana, Journal of the Senate, 1909, p. 1418.
            
            
            THE LAW IN OPERATION
            
            Governor Marshall appointed William A. DeHority, former treasurer of 
                        Madison County
                    , as the first state examiner. According to Edward Brennan, one of the field examiners
                    who qualified on the original examination given by the State Board of Accounts, DeHority had
                    developed a system by which the county auditor and treasurer acted as a check on each other. The
                    value of this contribution to local government was diminished considerably, according to Brennan, by
                    the fact that no one but DeHority could make the system operate satisfactorily. Nevertheless, in an
                    interview, Brennan referred to DeHority as a man of "great common sense." His
                    actions as first state examiner seem to bear out this judgment. He guided the new agency with
                    caution; and from the very first, conciliation of public officials became standard procedure. Such
                    an attitude seemed advisable for an agency created only after a bitter legislative struggle and
                    supported chiefly by reformist businessmen but opposed by well-organized politicians.
            The first meeting of the Indiana State Board of Accounts was held at 10:00 A.M., June 9, 1909, in
                    Governor Marshall's office.88 Present were the governor; John C.
                    Billheimer, auditor of state; DeHority; his two deputies, John H. Bait and William M. Fogarty, who
                    was soon to resign; and Albert New, legal counsel to the governor. The prospects for the new agency
                    were not promising. Temporary quarters had been assigned to it in Room 56 of the Statehouse in the
                    north lobby of the House of Representatives. No office staff existed, and worse still, no funds had
                    been provided by the legislature to hire one. In the bitter struggle to get the bill through, its
                    supporters had overlooked this detail. Governor Marshall, however, provided from his contingency
                    fund for the office expenses. It was necessary to find permanent quarters, to recruit and train a
                    staff of field examiners, and to interpret the powers given by the law to the board and the state
                    examiner. Albert New promised a compilation of the law at an early meeting. This meeting, scheduled
                    for June 12, was not held because the governor and auditor were 
                  
                     88 Minutes of the Meeting of the State Board of Accounts, June 9, 1909
                            (filed in the office of the State Board of Accounts, Statehouse, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ). These records will be hereafter cited as Minutes.
               
                     not able to attend. At the next meeting the board was
                    organized; Governor Marshall became president and Millard F. Cox, the newly appointed clerk, became
                    secretary to the board.89 Then DeHority brought up the recruitment of field
                    examiners. According to the Minutes: 
                        After discussion, on the initiative of the governor it was ordered that the Auditor of State,
                            the State Examiner and the Deputy Examiners…shall prepare a series of questions
                            to be propounded to applicants for field examiners to determine their qualifications, such
                            questions to be reported to a full meeting of the Board for approval.90
                  
                    
            
            The Minutes record that at the meeting of July 22 State Examiner DeHority was empowered to hire
                    "a clerical assistant, possessing a thorough knowledge of stenography, to be paid not
                    exceeding seventy-five ($75) dollars per month." DeHority reported further that
                    he had sent a general letter to all public officials in the state explaining the purpose of the
                    State Board of Accounts and asking these public officers for their support and cooperation. Various
                    blanks and forms for financial transactions were considered for adoption by the board. In addition,
                    plans and methods for conducting the work of the Department of Inspection and Supervision of Public
                    Offices were discussed.
            At the meeting of September 20, 1909, DeHority reported that he had hired a stenographer; accounting
                    and reporting forms were approved. More importantly, notice of an examination of applicants for the
                    position of field examiner had been given according to law, and an examination was scheduled for
                    September 28 and 29 in the House of Representatives. At this meeting the board established the rules
                    for the examination of candidates. Some of these rules were: 
                  The time and place of the examination shall be announced ten days in advance in the three
                            largest 
                                Indianapolis
                             newspapers.
                  Each applicant must fill out and file an application blank with the State Examiner.
                  The application form shall call for the following information: age, political affiliation,
                            marital status, employment record, and recommendations.
               
                
            
               
                  89
                        Ibid., July 1, 1909.
               
                        90
                        Ibid.
                    
            
            
            Among the rules governing appointment, Number Seven is the most significant: 
                        The results of the examination shall be carefully canvassed and compared by the State
                            Examiner for the purpose of determining which of the applicants are shown thereby to be best
                            fitted to discharge the duties of field examiner, taking into consideration the answers to
                            the preliminary questions contained in the application form, and such other information as
                            to the skill and integrity of the applicant as the Board may possess or obtain, and from
                            those who have the required degree of fitness and capability he shall appoint, according to
                            the law, such numbers of field examiners as the Board shall at any time, authorize.91
                  
                     This provision makes the examination a combination of an "assembled" and
                    "unassembled" test, as these terms are used in public personnel administration. In
                    the first type, the applicants are rated solely upon the results of an examination they have taken
                    together. In the unassembled type, the candidates are rated on their education and experience.
                    Allowing the state examiner freedom to weigh the background, recommendations, personalities, and
                    experience of the candidates gave him the power to select men who would represent the agency
                    properly. If the results of the written examination had been exclusively the determining factor, the
                    appointment of men with unpleasant personalities could have added to the ill will which was
                    inevitably to come to the department.
            At the December 10 meeting of the Board of Accounts, DeHority announced that he was ready to make his
                    appointments. The board, however, "taking into account the number of public offices in the
                    state subject to examination and the probable length of time required in each class,"
                    decided to give fuller consideration to the number of field examiners to be appointed. At the
                    following meeting, the board empowered DeHority to appoint one hundred field examiners if there were
                    that many fit applicants.92
            
            According to Brennan, "around two hundred" applicants assembled in the House and
                    Senate chambers for the first examination.93 There is no record available to
                    show how many field examiners were appointed following the examination. 
                  
                     91
                            Ibid., September 20, 1909.
                  
                     92
                            Ibid., December 18, 1909.
                  
                     93 Interview with Edward Brennan, January, 1948.
               
                     In his first report DeHority mentions that
                    "many" who were appointed resigned before making a single examination. The average
                    number of field examiners employed through 1910 was fifty-two. The way in which this statement is
                    made suggests that the indoctrination program was very demanding and strenuous: 
                        Previous to assignment [January 8, 1910] the field examiners were instructed as to their
                            duties and responsibilities. In face of the fact that every precaution was taken in the
                            selection of such examiners, many resigned, acknowledging that notwithstanding many years of
                            successful experience in commercial accounting and experience in public office they did not
                            feel fully qualified to pursue the line of work required by the accounting law.94
                  
                     Brennan, however, indicated that he had little respect for the indoctrination program. He
                    felt that the first field examiners had to "sink or swim" themselves. There was
                    not much help from headquarters and a great deal of hostility in the field from the public officers
                    whose accounts were to be examined.
            It was necessary that the board determine policy before work could actually be started by the field
                    examiners. At the December 22 meeting of the board, Governor Marshall moved, and the board approved,
                    that "mere irregularities" which violated the strict letter of the law but did not
                    deprive the public of full value of public money should not be prosecuted. Field examiners were to
                    help public officials make proper entries. Prosecutions were not to be instituted except against
                    dishonest officials, and actions were not to be brought against public officials unless the record
                    should fairly disclose that such officials had been using their offices for private gain.95
            
            The Minutes do not mention the decision to send out a Republican and Democrat together as a team.
                    DeHority, somewhat casually, mentions that this practice was a departmental decision: 
                        As a safeguard against deviation therefrom in the administration and operation of the law,
                            all examinations of public records have been made by field examiners working in pairs, each
                            of the two men being of opposite political faith. Such 
                        
                           94 Indiana, State Board of Accounts, Department of Inspection
                                    and Supervision of Public Offices, First Annual Report, 1910, p.
                                    10.
                        
                           95 Minutes, December 22, 1909.
                     
                             was deemed best by the department to insure
                            examinations and reports to be free from political bias or prejudice; also to reduce to a
                            minimum the cost of examinations, two men working together in auditing and checking being
                            able to do much more in a day than it would be possible for one man to accomplish in two
                                days.96
                  
                     Brennan stated that Governor Marshall was responsible for this policy in the Department of
                    Inspection and Supervision of Public Offices.97 There is no evidence, however,
                    in the rather carefully kept early Minutes to corroborate this opinion.
            Nonetheless, Governor Marshall's role in the first period of the public accounting law was
                    an important one. The Minutes reveal that he attended sixteen meetings in the time between June 9,
                    1909, and December 24, 1910. Though the last six of these meetings were only formal affairs to
                    approve blanks, the Minutes for the preceding meetings show Marshall as a leader in policy
                    formation. Marshall seems to have established the whole tone of DeHority's administration,
                    which was characterized by conciliation.
            The pioneering field examiners meanwhile were running into difficulties. First, the examiners had to
                    learn their jobs; labor was divided to simplify their duties but even so the task was not simple.
                    Two-man teams of examiners were assigned to the townships, civil and school. Other teams were
                    assigned to county treasurers and auditors. A third type of team audited the accounts of the clerks
                    and sheriffs. After mastering their jobs, i.e., after making several audits, the treasurer-auditor
                    team would split up, as would the clerk-sheriff team. New teams were then formed by a
                    treasurer-auditor man and a clerk-sheriff man, each teaching his partner and learning from him.
                    After mastering the substantive and procedural aspects of auditing the four county offices, a county
                    man was paired with a township man, once again to teach his partner and to learn from him. Only by
                    1914 did the two-man teams of field examiners become sufficiently expert to go into a county seat
                    and audit all county and township public accounts. Specialized work in the larger 
                  
                     96 William A. DeHority, Three Years of Experience with
                                the Public Accounting Law (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1912). DeHority gave this address before the Indiana State Association of
                            County Commissioners at 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana, on September 26, 1912.
                  
                     97 Interview with Edward Brennan, January, 1948.
               
                     municipalities, state offices, and state institutions were
                    likewise mastered by special field examiners; ordinary field examiners were not assigned to them.98
            
            Secondly, the accounts were kept so wretchedly that even with cooperative public officers, the
                    auditing job was puzzling, tedious, and frustrating. According to Ure M. Frazer, the public savings
                    made by auditing the township books were chiefly psychological since the examiners could not do much
                    with the primitive, slipshod methods then being used by the trustees. The county offices were not
                    much better. The first audits revealed, as Frazer phrased it, "crude thievery—or
                    atrocious arithmetic."99 The auditor did not provide a check on the
                    treasurer, and the financial condition of the county could be determined only after long, tiresome
                    work. Very frequently at first the treasurers would be found to be short. The officers were not
                    informed of their shortages by the examiners; all shortages when revealed were reported to the
                    board, but this system was later changed.
            Thirdly, many officers were neither cordial nor cooperative. Ever conciliatory, DeHority minimizes
                    this friction in the first public report of the department. "It is a pleasure to state
                    that, with a very few exceptions, this Department has had the willing and hearty cooperation of all
                    the public officials of the State who are subject to its supervision." On the other hand,
                    Frazer and Brennan both spoke of at least covert hostility toward examiners. Examiners were denied
                    ordinary cordiality, assigned to dark, badly ventilated places to work, and not given help in
                    finding necessary records and material. Frazer recalled that on one occasion he was expected to work
                    at a table placed beneath the stairs. After Brennan protested against similar unreasonable
                    treatment, he was called "an arrogant little upstart." As he remembered, field
                    examiners as a group were frequently referred to as "Tom Marshall's
                    snoopers," and were "as welcome as hornets."
            Brennan thought that DeHority's instructions regarding the conduct of the examiners toward
                    the public officers could have added to the ill will already engendered by the initiation 
                  
                     98 Interviews with Ure M. Fraser, of 
                                Indianapolis
                            , January and February, 1948. The author is indebted to Fraser for this
                            information on the learning scheme adopted by the department at the start. Fraser was
                            appointed to the department on August 18, 1911, after passing the second examination that
                            was given.
                  
                     99 Interviews with Ure M. Fraser, January and February, 1948.
               
                     of the auditing system. Examiners were directed to be very
                    reserved toward officers and were positively forbidden to eat a meal with them or to accept a cigar
                    from them. This code of conduct was emphasized several times in letters from headquarters to the
                    field men. Brennan recalled that he was called "on the carpet" by the state
                    examiner for buying a public officer a drink. But Brennan continued to be friendly to public
                    officers, to help them whenever he could, and to buy them an occasional drink. He found that
                    friendliness could get cooperation and, therefore, make his work easier. Other field examiners told
                    him that they used the same tactics when they thought it expedient to do so. DeHority's
                    rules of conduct were never recalled, but became dead letters through being widely observed in the
                        breach.100
            
            The fourth major difficulty in the field arose over the standard forms established by the board.
                    Basically this problem was occasioned by the forms not being entirely satisfactory. Quite evidently
                    the forms devised for the various officers were designed by the state examiner and the deputies, and
                    headquarters seemed to believe these forms were, if not admirable, at least adequate. The way the
                    forms were weighed is given in the First Report which states: The blank forms,
                    "prescribed by the State Board of Accounts, were first submitted for consideration and
                    approval to a committee representing the commercial and business interests of the State, to whom
                    this department is greatly obligated for valuable suggestions and advice."101 It is regettable that DeHority's policy of conciliation of public officers
                    was not applied in the matter of the forms. Brennan recalled that the original forms were
                    "idealistic, impractical, and too expensive." In addition, they were complicated
                    and took too much time to use. The situation over the forms became so bad that the state examiner
                    finally called the field examiners together "to thresh out the problem of the
                        forms."102
            
            Aside from procedural problems, a shattering blow was struck the agency in the first year when the
                    act establishing the board and the department was declared unconstitutional by Judge Francis J.
                    Vurpillat, of Starke County, and county 
                  
                     100 Interview with Edward Brennan, January, 1948.
                  
                     101 Indiana, State Board of Accounts, Department of Inspection and
                            Supervision of Public Offices, First Annual Report, 1910, p. 6.
                  
                     102 Interview with Edward Brennan, January, 1948.
               
                     auditors were enjoined from paying the auditing fees. What the
                    failure to receive any payment for his services meant to a field examiner was related to the writer
                    very graphically by Frazer. He recalled that he completed the auditing of the treasurer-auditor
                    offices in four counties without receiving a cent. Paying his own expenses in the field and
                    maintaining a home for his family for this period had more than exhausted his personal reserves. It
                    had, he recalled, nearly exhausted his credit also, and the prospect of receiving the money owed him
                    was badly clouded.103
            
            The reasoning of Judge Vurpillat in declaring the Public Accounting Law unconstitutional is
                    significant because the prejudices and arguments justifying his action foreshadow the struggle that
                    was to occur in the 1911 legislative session. The decision was the outcome of a case in Starke
                    County Circuit Court to enjoin County Auditor Lee M. Ransbottom from paying six field examiners and
                    was brought by Henry R. Robbins, a lawyer and a taxpayer. The sum of $1,705.90 was owed
                    to Christopher C. White, Otha C. Herdrich, Charles H. Knapp, Alfred R. Hardesty, Leonard R.
                    Schrader, and William A. Hammond, field examiners. They entered a plea of demurrer. This plea was
                    overruled and the injunction against paying auditing expenses was granted. In addition, Robbins was
                    to recover his costs for bringing the action from the defendants.104
            
            Robbins, handling his own case, argued that the Public Accounting Law was unconstitutional since it
                    deprived citizens of money and property without due process of law. He also maintained that the
                    title of the act was misleading and so violated the Indiana constitution because "every act
                    shall embrace but one subject and matters properly connected therewith; which subject shall be
                    expressed in the title."105 The charge was made that the act called for
                    "public accounting" but provided for only secret and private inspection. Judge
                    Vurpillat did not recognize this second count, but he was eloquent on the charge of deprivation of
                    property without due process of law. Because it states so clearly the local 
                  
                     103 Interviews with Ure M. Fraser, January and February, 1948.
                  
                     104
                            Ransbottom, Auditor, v. State ex. rel. Robbins, 178 Ind.
                            80 (1912), Number 22027.
                  
                     105 Indiana, Constitution (1851), Art. 4, sec.
                        19.
               
                     official's prejudice against state auditing of local
                    government accounts, Judge Vurpillat's decision is quoted at length: 
                        While it is true as a general proposition of law that the revenues of a County are subject to
                            legislative control, and the legislature may direct the expenditure of such revenues for
                            particular purposes, these revenues can not be seized arbitrarily under guise of legislative
                            enactment, without notice to the County, without the right of the County government to
                            supervise its funds and conserve such funds in the interests of its taxpayers….
                            And Certainly such funds can not thus be taken without giving the taxpayer a day in court
                            upon the question whether or not the funds are properly taken pursuant to such legislative
                            enactment and, if so, whether or not the correct amount is taken for such purpose. [The Ohio
                            case upholding the law here is distinguished.]
                        Conceding that an enactment may be constitutional that provides for the arbitrary inspection
                            of every public office in every county and municipality, by State officials, without any
                            notice or request therefor and without any cause, or necessity therefor; conceding that such
                            law may provide for imposing upon the already overburdened taxpayers the enormous expense
                            and cost of such inspecting of all local offices—wherther [sic]
                            such offices are known to be honnestly [sic] and economically administered
                            by tried and trustworthy officials or not; can it be said that when such inspections are so
                            arbitrarily made and enormous liabilities created against such county without regard to its
                            financial condition, can it be possible that such law may also provide that such foreign
                            inspectors may audit their own accounts and swoop down upon the county treasury and demand
                            the unconditional surrender of the taxpayers' money in any sum demanded, under the
                            penalty provided by Sec. 10 of the Act, for the Auditor and Treasurer who shall resist such
                            a high handed hold up that they shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, be fined $1,000
                            and removed from office. Surely such a provision cannot be sustained.
                        We know of no similar provision in all the law of the land for depriving a tax payer of his
                            money. Even where liabilities are incurred against a county and such liabilities are
                            determined by the proper officers of the county the tax payer is given the right of appeal
                            from the action of his own officers. No judgment of a court of justice can be realized upon
                            even after a day in court has been accorded the debtor, until execution is properly served
                            upon him. But what day in court has the tax payer here. His local government is shorn of its
                            powers and cannot pass upon the validity or correctness of the foreigh [sic] inspectors claims. No provision is made for the levy of any tax for the purpose
                            of this act. No notice whatever is given  that money for
                            the purpose of this Act will be taken or required. No appropriation is required to warrant
                            the payment of these demands. The tax payers liability is fixed without notice and without
                            his knowledge or consent, without any right to determine its validity or amount, and without
                            any right or opportunity to resent a wrong and injustice by appeal.
                        There is absolutely no process of law afforded the citizen tax payer, unless, indeed it be
                            said that the enactment furnishes due process of law. But this can not be. Many high courts
                            of the land have held that an act of the legislature is not necessarily the law of the land
                            and that a legislature cannot make anything due process of law which by its own legislation
                            it declares to be such. And the courts have also held that if an act be found to be
                            arbitrary and unjust and oppressive, it may be declared to be not due process of law.
                        The law in question so far as it provides for taking the funds of the county arbitrarily and
                            without notice to the county or the taxpayer and without providing them a day in court to
                            determine the validity of the claim against them and the amount thereof denies that due
                            process of law which the constitution guarrantees [sic].
                        A law is fundamentally right reason and justice. The provision of the Public Accounting Law
                            for taking the tax payers money is without reason or justice and is therefore not law
                            although so called, and such provision is also unconstitutional as denying the citizens and
                            taxpayers due process of law in thus taking their money.106
                  
                    
            
            The legal reasoning of the case need not be considered too closely. What seems significant is the
                    fierce parochialism implicit in the decision. This attitude reveals itself in several ways. First,
                    Judge Vurpillat implies that local officials are above any possible suspicion when he criticizes
                    inspection of local offices "whether such offices are known to be economically and honestly
                    administered by tried and trustworthy officials." Examination of the accounts of such
                    officials would in itself be an unnecessary affront to the judge, but that such an inspection is
                    performed by "foreign inspectors" who swoop down "and demand the
                    unconditional surrender of the taxpayers' money" is simply too much. In addition,
                    the accounts of the state inspectors were not audited. This last thrust found a mark, and action
                    would come of it.
            At the end of 1910 the prospects for the Public Acounting Law were not bright. There was considerable
                    hostility from the public officers despite the DeHority policy of conciliation and the cautious
                    forbearance toward public officers 
                  
                     106
                            Ransbottom v. State.
                  
               
                     directed by Governor Marshall. The uniform system of accounting
                    was going slowly because of the officials' hostility and because of the imperfections of
                    the forms adopted by the board. Payment of the field examiners was delayed in many cases and had
                    become uncertain.
            Though the Republicans made no mention of the new law in their platform for 1910, the Democrats
                    included a paragraph: 
                        We believe that the public accounting law, nonpartisan in inception and bipartisan in
                            enactment and administration, has accomplished and will continue to accomplish great good
                            for both taxpayers and public officials of Indiana; and we pledge the Democratic party to
                            its maintenance and its improvement whenever improvement may be shown by experience to be
                            necessary or beneficial.107
                  
                     There is no evidence, however, that the law became an issue of any significance in the
                    campaign.
            The Sixty-seventh General Assembly, which convened January 5, 1911, was a more stable body than its
                    predecessor. In the Senate the Democrats had a thirty to twenty majority; in the House they led
                    sixty-one to thirty-nine. Governor Marshall in his message to the Democratic assembly defended the
                    State Board of Accounts and the work of the Department of Inspection and Supervision of Public
                    Offices. He said: 
                        The Public Accounting Law has given almost universal satisfaction to the people and should
                            not be tampered with in any particular except one. The law now provides that the moneys
                            found due the State and the different municipalities shall be collected by the Attorney
                            General. This burden is too great for his office.108
                  
                     Governor Marshall declared that the local prosecutors should assume this duty. He further
                    stated that, since yearly examinations were provided, county councils and township advisory boards
                    should be discontinued and their duties assumed by the commissioners and trustees.
            The governor's wishes, however, were not regarded. Two bills were introduced in the House
                    affecting the examination of public offices. One of these, House Bill Number 29, which was
                    introduced by Representative L. B. Clore, was never 
                  
                     107 Indiana, Republican State Committee, Political
                                Hand-book of Indiana for the Campaign of 1910, 182–183.
                  
                     108 Indiana, Journal of the House of
                            Representatives, 1911, pp. 32–38.
               
                     reported out of the Judiciary Committee. House Bill Number 28,
                    however, was a measure that would have weakened the agency severely. It was introduced by
                    Representative S. B. Wells, of Jennings and Scott counties, who vigorously attacked the new
                        agency.109
            
            This measure would have eliminated the office of state examiner and created instead a three-man
                    board, each member having equal powers and drawing the same salary ($3,000). The staff of
                    field examiners would have been cut to a maximum of twenty members. There would have been no
                    examinations of public accounts until a uniform system of accounting was installed. If a shortage
                    were discovered in an office, this fact was to be given to the public officer concerned and the
                    shortage not reported for ten days. The officer whose account was short could file a protest with
                    the board; then the board would have to wait another ten days before publicizing the shortage. The
                    state examiners were personally to go over the accounts with the officer. They would have the power
                    to make corrections and settlement before any release of the report to the press. Any violation of
                    these provisions by an examiner would bring a $500 fine and /or six months in jail. The
                    state examiners would report any malfeasance, misfeasance, or nonfeasance of public officers to the
                    prosecuting attorney in whose jurisdiction the violation occurred. The attorney was to begin
                    prosecution, for which his fee would be 5 per cent of the amount he recovered.110
            
            House Bill Number 28 was reported favorably from committee and made a special order of business, but
                    on the second reading a move to indefinitely postpone it carried by fifty-four votes. It was
                    approved again in committee on March 4, but it failed to reach the House floor.111
            
            The action which ultimately amended the 1909 act originated in the Senate and was introduced by
                    Senator William A. Yarling on January 13, 1911. The provisions of Senator Yarling's bill
                    (S. B. 109) are unknown, for the committee saved only its enacting clause. The committee (Judiciary
                    A) bill had fourteen sections, all dealing with the procedure for 
                  
                     109
                            Ibid., Appendix, 392.
                  
                     110
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, January 10, 1911.
                  
                     111 Indiana, Journal of the House of
                            Representatives, 1911, Appendix, 392.
               
                     collecting shortages. In the House only the enacting clause
                    once again was saved. The Judiciary Committee wrote a new measure that contained many of
                    Representative Wells' ideas concerning public accounting. The state examiner's
                    salary was to be reduced to $3,500 a year, and he was to have no greater authority than
                    either of his deputies. The State Board of Accounts was to be increased by the addition of the two
                    deputy examiners. The field examiners' pay was to be reduced to eight dollars a working
                    day. The remainder of the bill dealt with prosecution of public officers and the fees that were to
                    go to the prosecuting attorneys.
            The Judiciary Committee's measure would have badly crippled the department in organization
                    and personnel. The reduction of the state examiner's authority and responsibility to that
                    of just a member of a three-man board would certainly have weakened the administrative direction of
                    the work. Cutting down the field force to no more than twenty would have made it impossible for the
                    department to carry out the responsibility placed on it by the Public Accounting Law. Furthermore,
                    the morale of the remaining field men would have been lowered considerably if such a provision had
                    been enacted.
            This attack on the original Public Accounting Law of 1909 was the work of the Judiciary Committee,
                    composed of Democratic Representatives Edwin Corr, George D. Sunkel, James B. Merriman, William W.
                    Spencer, Charles E. Smith, Adam E. 
                        Wise
                    , and Cassius W. McMullen; and Republican Representatives Russell K. Bedgood, Jacob S.
                    White, Calvin 
                        Paris
                    , and William E. Wider. "The new bill, which was drafted by Representatives
                    Wise and Merriman, was agreed on by the Democratic members of the committee and later taken up by
                    the entire committee."112 Such changes as the committee made were of
                    course against Governor Marshall's wishes as expressed in his message. Marshall, who played
                    such a leading part in the passage of the original bill, was to defend it staunchly in this session.
                    Representative Wise joined Wells in a fight to weaken the State Board of Accounts, a fight that
                    dragged on until nearly the close of the session. Governor Marshall's early attempts to
                    bring the Democrats into line were fruitless, according to the News which said:
                        
                  
                     112
                            Ibid., Appendix, 3; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, February 17, 1911.
               
                    
                    
                        In the house the bipartisan tendency displayed itself in consideration of the bill designed
                            to affect the uniform public accounting law….
                        A number of the leaders had hoped that following the appearance of the Governor in the joint
                            Democratic caucus on Monday evening that the members who were being made the catspaws for
                            the Republican minorities, and more especially in the house, would right about face about
                            redeeming party pledges…. [but] Representative Wells and a coterie of the
                            majority went over to the Republicans on the accounting law fight and almost deprived the
                            measure of all its real value.113
                  
                    
            
            On February 24 Representative Merriman offered amendments to the amended Senate Bill 109 that changed
                    the bill radically. The provision lowering the state examiner to equality with the two deputies and
                    that enlarging the board to include the deputies were stricken out. Except for reducing the pay of
                    field examiners and granting the prosecuting attorneys power to prosecute local officials whose
                    violations had been uncovered by the department, the original bill as drafted in 1909 remained.
            Representative Merriman, after offering his amendments, found himself in the same sort of
                    embarrassing position that Senator Bland had been in two years earlier. He was obliged to repudiate
                    measures he had earlier sponsored. His rapid shift was pointed out to him on the floor.
                    Representative Faris said: 
                        "That report [of the Judiciary Committee] was satisfactory even to the gentleman who
                            now proposes these amendments…. The accounting law as it now stands puts in the
                            hands of a political boss a deadly weapon.
                        "It was the attempt of the committee to make the accounting board as nearly
                            nonpartisan as possible. It is dangerous to any party, to the party in power as well as to
                            the party out of power. It is dangerous to the members of the Democratic party who do not
                            happen to be in accord with the accounting board. There is no reason why the chief examiner
                            should be made a czar. These amendments offered by the gentleman from Wells would put the
                            board right back where it is today. I believe the field examiners ought to be under the
                            instructions of the board, and not under the orders of one man."114
                  
                    
            
            Representative Faris' argument could very well have been prompted by political
                    considerations, as he states. The 
                  
                     113
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, February 18, 1911.
                  
                     114
                            Ibid., February 25, 1911.
               
                     Democratic tide was running strong in 1911, and he may have
                    feared that the state examiner would use the department to harass Republican officeholders, though
                    it is difficult to see how honest, efficient public officials could be embarrassed by the operations
                    of the field staff directed by the state examiner. But the attack on the organization of the board
                    and department and their policy could well have been an attempt to destroy or weaken a function that
                    it was not expedient to attack frontally.
            In defending the Merriman amendments, Representative Corr met the two major objections made by the
                    attackers. The charge that the field examiners' pay was too high did not apply, he pointed
                    out, for the Merriman amendments did not change the two dollar daily reduction made by the Judiciary
                    Committee's amendment. Neither could the other charge, that public officers were
                    embarrassed by the publication of reports be attributed to the Merriman amendments, since the
                    amendments provided for notice, a hearing, and a settlement, all without publicity. Merriman himself
                    upheld the power granted to the state examiner. "We say the power ought to center in the
                    hands of the Chief Examiner."115
            
            The Merriman amendments were finally adopted by a fifty-two to forty-two vote.116
                    The affirmative votes were all Democratic; thirty-seven Republican votes were negative. Five
                    Democrats voted with the Republicans and four Democrats did not vote. The third reading and vote
                    came on February 28. The March 1 issue of the News credited the Merriman
                    amendments to Marshall and DeHority, for it noted: "The House yesterday afternoon voted by
                    a vote of 62 to 32 to save the uniform accounting law in its present form with the exception of such
                    amendments as in the opinion of the Governor and the chief Examiners ought to be made to
                    it." Fifty-six Democrats were joined by six Republicans in favor of the bill; and thirty
                    Republicans and two Democrats opposed. The Senate quickly concurred in the House amendments, and the
                    bill was signed by the governor, March 4.
            Representative Faris, however, had objected to Governor Marshall's pressure on the
                    Democratic members of the legislature. He recounted that Mark Thistlewaite, the governor's
                        
                  
                            115
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     116 Indiana, Journal of the House of
                            Representatives, 1911, p. 1488.
               
                     secretary, had stood beside the Speaker when the vote was taken
                    on the second reading. Faris charged that Republican legislators had been intimidated by a threat to
                    examine the accounts of Republican state officeholders. According to the News,
                    "Faris made a bitter attack on the state board of accounts and the methods which he alleged
                    the chief examiner and the attaches of the department had used in forcing the bill
                    through." In explaining his vote which was one of two Democratic votes cast against the
                    bill, Wells said "that a vote for the bill would be an acknowledgement that Governor Thomas
                    R. Marshall and the Democratic majority in the house were owned body and soul by William A.
                    DeHority, the chief examiner…,"117
            
            The amendments for the prosecution of public officers whose violations had been brought to light by
                    the field men did not influence agency policy or operation significantly. The provision for
                    maintaining secrecy of shortages if a settlement could be made improved the relationship between the
                    board and the department and the public officers.
            The board and the department had weathered a strong legislative attack. DeHority and Governor
                    Marshall had proved themselves capable defenders of the new agency. Miss Nelle Mullenix, an early
                    office employee of the board, remembered that she had been instructed by DeHority to enroll the bill
                    so that there would be no last minute slip-up that might endanger the agency.118
                    The attack on the bill probably had been motivated by the kind of parochialism that Judge Vurpillat
                    represented, and the county officers and trustees probably exerted some pressure, though the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News says nothing of this. Somewhat strangely, there is no indication of
                    intervention in the defense of the Public Accounting Law by Noel, Bobbs, or any of the other
                    originators of the 1909 law.
            The first report of the Department of Inspection and Supervision of Public Offices made to the State
                    Board of Accounts shows only limited success of departmental operations. First, the existing records
                    in some public offices were in "such condition as to render a clear and satisfactory report
                    impossible until a thorough investigation [had] been made by the department examiners in the course
                    of the regular examinations 
                  
                     117
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, March 1, 1911.
                  
                     118 Interview with Nelle Mullenix, March, 1948.
               
                     nations."119 The original
                    examinations consisted largely of helping the public officer install the new uniform system and in
                    getting the accounts in shape. As noted earlier, decreases in public purchasing effected in 1910
                    were achieved largely through psychological means. Nonetheless, savings were actual, no matter what
                    caused them. The State Board of Accounts and the Department of Education had prepared a list of
                    standard school supplies for the township trustees. The prices paid for supplies in 1910 were
                    substantially lower than in 1909, as the following list indicates: 
                  
                     
                                Article
                            
                     
                                1909
                            
                     
                                1910
                            
                  
                  
                     Maps, single
                     $ 2.00
                     $ 1.00
                  
                  
                     Maps, (8 in case) [One Vigo trustee had once paid $100 for this type of
                                map.]
                     20.00
                     12.50
                  
                  
                     Globes, 8 inch
                     6.00
                     2.50–4.75
                  
                  
                     Globes, 12 inch
                     9.00
                     4.50–7.50
                  
               
            
            During the year 1910, 1711 examinations were made as follows: state offices, 7; county, 214;
                    townships (civil and school), 1342; cities and towns, 97; school cities and towns, 51.120 A uniform system of accounting was installed in the offices of the trustees of the
                    1,017 existing townships. In some county offices a uniform system had already been installed. Mr.
                    DeHority reported further that the department had been "a bureau of information to which
                    officers from all parts of the state have presented inquiries on matters affecting their
                    duties." He reported: "This practice, while entailing much work and imposing an
                    unusual degree of responsibility, has been encouraged in the belief that the desired uniformity in
                    the management of public offices would thereby be more speedily reached."121
            
            The report to the 1911 legislature shows that the department was paying for itself, although DeHority
                    had been too optimistic about recoveries. The 1,711 examinations were made at a cost of
                    $145,552 to the units examined. Total charges made against officers and former officers
                    for shortages discovered was $741,735. Of this sum $50,976 had 
                  
                     119 Indiana, State Board of Accounts, Department of Inspection and
                            Supervision of Public Offices, First Annual Report, 1910, p. 5.
                  
                     120
                            Ibid., 8.
                  
                     121
                            Ibid., 11.
               
                     already been recovered. The direct shortage, i.e., money
                    retained illegally in which the governmental unit suffered a loss, was $439,868. The
                    constructive shortage, i.e., violative of the law but in which the governmental unit suffered no
                    loss, was $301,867. The total maintenance cost of the central office of the State Board
                    of Accounts, including furnishings and salaries, was $27,394.122
            
            Before 1911 had closed, one more situation had to be resolved—it was necessary to secure a
                    reversal of the decision of the Starke County Circuit Court declaring the State Board of Accounts
                    unconstitutional. On December 8, 1911, the attorney general petitioned the Indiana Supreme Court for
                    an advancement of the Ransbottom case, stating that 
                        an early decision of this appeal is of great public concern because of the fact that a large
                            number of cases are pending in the State in which the validity of the act is necessarily
                            involved…and a number of county auditors, at least five, refuse to comply with
                            the provisions of the act because of the decision of the circuit court aforesaid.123
                  
                    
            
            In the May term, 1912, the state supreme court reversed the Starke County Circuit Court decision.
                    Chief Justice Douglas Morris said "that the statute violates either the Constitution of
                    Indiana or that of the 
                        United States
                    , because it denies ‘due process of law’, can find no support
                    either in reason or authority." A number of citations follow. The judge also declared the
                    title of the act not misleading and therefore constitutional. The court further ruled that Robbins
                    had brought action improperly. Judgment was reversed with instructions to the court below to sustain
                    the appellants' demurrer.
            Though the department's greatest single problem was now removed, DeHority was plagued with
                    personnel problems. The validity of the examining and selecting process was never publicly
                    questioned, but quite evidently a great many improper selections had been made. Many of these men quit; others were separated from the service. To complicate the problem,
                    private employers threatened to discharge employees who took the examinations of the department.
            Moreover, the first extra assignment given to the State Board of Accounts by the general assembly
                    imposed a stiff 
                  
                     122
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, January 11, 1911.
                  
                     123
                            Ransbottom v. State.
                  
               
                     burden on the struggling agency, which had not yet met the
                    obligations of the original law. The board was directed to gather and compile facts and data from
                    the following officials: the clerk of the circuit court, the county auditor, the county recorder,
                    the county treasurer, the county sheriff, the county assessor, the county surveyor, the county
                    coroner, the county commissioners, the township trustee, the township assessor, and the prosecuting
                    attorney. The legislature had pending before it bills for the increase of salaries of county and
                    township officials and felt it could make realistic salary revisions "by having the
                    necessary facts and data concerning the respective offices."124
                    Collecting these facts and data entailed a great deal of work, as DeHority indicated in his speech
                    to the county commissioners at 
                        Richmond
                    : 
                        Acting in accordance with the above resolution the Department drafted circulars, setting out
                            the information specified together with additional questions relative to the work performed
                            in the respective offices and mailed the same to three thousand ninety-eight officials
                            affected thereby. When you realize that an average of thirty questions were asked of each
                            official as enumerated, thereby involving on the part of the Department the consideration of
                            more than eighty thousand separate and distinct items upon the return of the complete
                            reports, also the great number of letters made necessary to dictate in the matter of
                            correction, verification and additional information in connection with the reports, you will
                            comprehend in a small degree the vast amount of work necessary in order to properly present
                            this report to the next General Assembly.125
                  
                    
            
            In addition to personnel problems and the burden of extra duty imposed by the legislature, the board
                    faced complicated problems in initiating and executing its routine duties. For example, an
                    examination in a northeastern county revealed a $4,400 shortage in the accounts of a
                    trustee. Though a Republican, the trustee went to 
                        Indianapolis
                     to see Governor Marshall. The trustee acknowledged that the record showing the shortage
                    was right, but he swore that "he had not taken a nickel." Believing the
                    man's story, the governor got in touch with DeHority and told him to send two examiners to
                    the trustee's home. Marshall said he wanted to help the man justify himself before his
                    friends and neighbors—if he were honest.126
            
            
               
                  124 Indiana, Laws (1911), Chap. 296, p. 701.
               
                  125 DeHority, Three Years of Experience with the Public
                            Accounting Law, 30.
               
                  126 Interview with Edward Brennan, January, 1948.
            
            
            Edward Brennan and his partner were assigned this job. The records in the auditor's office
                    showed the shortage. The two field men went to the trustee's home, where the trustee was of
                    no help beyond proclaiming his honesty. He had kept no record whatever of income or disbursements.
                    After some fruitless questions, Brennan discovered that the trustee had kept his canceled checks or
                    check stubs. Starting with the time the trustee began his term in office, the field examiners called
                    on him to identify every person to whom he had written checks for public money and to justify the
                    expenditure. The trustee's daughter was pressed into service and arranged the checks and
                    stubs in chronological order. One check for twenty-five dollars made out a year or two before
                    puzzled the trustee for a while, but his daughter remembered the woman who had received the check
                    had been a local teacher. The trustee then recalled that this teacher had asked him for an advance
                    on her salary to meet some pressing personal need. Other checks brought momentary blanks, but the
                    trustee eventually remembered the reasons for the expenditures. The canceled checks and stubs
                    accounted completely for the shortage. Brennan and his partner helped the trustee set up an
                    accounting system. And when DeHority reported the vindication of the trustee's honesty to
                    the governor, Marshall was very gratified.
            Facing such problems as that just described, the field men under DeHority naturally had to take what
                    now would be considered an inordinate time to complete examinations. The extreme division of labor
                    which was necessary in the beginning for the field examiners to learn their jobs further slowed down
                    the rate of progress.127
            
            Statistically, the record of the department under DeHority was not impressive. The first state
                    examiner reported always what the department had done, but the reports of the second state examiner
                    show what was left undone. Gilbert H. Hendren, appointee of Governor Samuel M. Ralston, issued a
                    report on the first year of the department under his direction. Whatever Mr. Hendren's
                    intentions were, the figures tend to make DeHority's administration appear remiss in its
                    duties if the particular difficulties faced by both the original headquarters and field staff in the
                    application of 
                  
                     127 Interviews with Ure M. Fraser, January and February, 1948.
               
                     the provisions of the Public Accounting Law are not taken into
                    consideration. Hendren reported: 
                        When I assumed charge of this department, June 7, 1913, the records showed…that of
                            the 6,522 public offices and institutions in Indiana, under the supervision of the State
                            Board of Accounts, 2,275 offices and institutions had been examined one or more times during
                            the preceding four years, leaving 4,247 offices and institutions that had never been
                            examined. This number included the officials of a large number of small incorporated towns,
                            justices of the peace, municipal light and water plants, city park boards, Barrett law
                            improvements, and several of the large state institutions.128
                  
                     Though the Hendren report makes clear that under DeHority the State Board of Accounts had
                    not been able to make examinations of all the public offices, still a sound foundation had been
                    built. When Hendren assumed leadership of the agency, it had an experienced staff that had faced
                    considerable hostility from the local officers and had largely overcome it. The agency had survived
                    a bitter legislative battle in 1911, and in the next year the Indiana Supreme Court had upheld the
                    constitutionality of the statute creating it. Many problems remained, but under DeHority the Board
                    of Accounts had successfully become a going concern.
            
               
                  128 Indiana, State Board of Accounts, Department of Inspection and
                        Supervision of Public Offices, Special Report, 1913–1914, p.
                    7.
            
         
         
         
            The Senator and the Author:
            Beveridge—Churchill Correspondence
            
                    Edited by Warren I. Titus
                    *
                
            In 1901 shortly after the publication of his eminently successful novel, The
                    Crisis, Winston Churchill, the American novelist, received a letter of congratulation from
                    Senator Albert J. Beveridge of Indiana.1 The letter was apparently the first of
                    several which the two men exchanged over the next ten years, and it marked the beginning of a
                    friendship that united two popular figures of American Progressivism. Churchill, always something of
                    a hero worshiper, was drawn to the Senator as a leader in those political battles the novelist
                    incorporated into his books. For his part, Beveridge found much to praise in Churchill's
                    fictional treatment of American history and politics. After Churchill entered politics in 
                        New Hampshire
                    , the two men were associated in the insurgent movement to reform the Republican party.
            The letters that follow are located in the Churchill Collection at Baker Library, Dartmouth College,
                            
                  Hanover, New
                            Hampshire
               . While the Beveridge letters in this collection are the
                    originals, those of Churchill are carbon copies. The correspondence here reproduced has been
                    transcribed with faithful observance of the original spelling and punctuation, except in headings
                    and closings of the letters where spacing and punctuation have been standardized.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Nov. 5 [1901]
                                
                        Dear Mr. Churchill:
                        I hope you are not so tired of congratulations on "The Crisis" that
                                    you will not accept this expression of my admiration for that wonderful novel.
                        Every American—especially every young American—ought to read
                                    it; &, by the looks of things, I think they will come near doing it.
                        
                           
                              * Warren I. Titus is Assistant Professor of
                                        English at George Peabody College for Teachers, 
                                 Nashville, Tennessee
                              .
                           
                              1 Winston Churchill, The Crisis (
                                            New York
                                        , 1901). For biographical information about Beveridge, see Claude G.
                                        Bowers, Beveridge and the Progressive Era (
                                            Cambridge
                                        , Mass., 1932). There is no published biography of Churchill, but an
                                        extensive account of his life may be found in Warren I. Titus, "Winston
                                        Churchill, American: A Critical Biography" (unpublished Ph.D.
                                        dissertation, Dept. of American Civilization, 
                                            New York
                                         University, 1957).
                        
                        
                        And other peoples ought to read it too in order to understand the American quality of
                                    character.
                        Thank you. You have done every body a great service—me you have given
                                    pleasure & profit & inspiration.
                        
                                    Sincerely,
                                    Albert J. Beveridge
                                
                        To Mr. Winston Churchill 
                                        New York
                                    
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            After Churchill's The Crossing had been published in 1904, Beveridge wrote
                        again:2
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Rangely, Me.
                           
                                    July 21, 1904
                                
                        Dear Mr. Churchill:
                        I cannot refrain from telling you what pleasure & profit "The
                                    Crossing" gave me.
                        I read it in camp on a long canoe trip through the Maine wilderness to 
                                        Canada
                                    . The trip itself was not more delightful than your amazing volume.
                        It is great—great art & great history. It is a wizard quality that
                                    catches the spirit of an elemental & bygone day & makes that spirit
                                    ours.
                        You have done this, Mr. Churchill, & every American is peculiarly in your
                                    debt; from the broader viewpoint of art the English reading world is in your debt.
                        Some day I hope to know you personally. If ever you are in 
                                        Washington
                                     wont [sic] you [do?] me the honor to call.
                        With admiring regards, I am, dear Mr. Churchill,
                        
                                    Very sincerely,
                                    Albert J. Beveridge
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            In the summer of 1906, Churchill published his first political novel, Coniston,
                    which dealt with the boss system in American politics.3 At the same time,
                    Churchill had plunged into a political career himself and was actively campaigning for the
                    Republican nomination for governor of 
                        New Hampshire
                    . He was bitterly opposed, and finally defeated, by the 
                        Boston
                     & Maine Railroad machine which controlled the state's politics.4 In August, Senator Beveridge wrote Churchill—whom he had now
                    met—of his reactions to both the book and the political campaign the author was waging.
            
               
                  2 Winston Churchill, The Crossing (
                            New York
                        , 1904).
               
                  3 Winston Churchill, Coniston (
                            New York
                        , 1906). Jethro Bass was the political boss in Coniston; Churchill
                        began by exposing him but ended by turning him into a repentant, sentimental hero. The book
                        itself was an outgrowth of Churchill's own political experience.
               
                  4 See Leon B. Richardson, William E. Chandler,
                        Republican (
                            New York
                        , 1940), 677–686; and Titus, "Winston Churchill, American: A
                        Critical Biography," chap. 5.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              Rangeley, 
                                    Maine
                                 ,
                           
                                    August 5, 1906. Personal.
                        My dear Mr. Churchill:
                        All day yesterday and all night last night I read
                                    "Coniston"—read it until I came to the end of it, just
                                    as it was getting a little bit gray in the East. I have got to hurry and write you
                                    about it. I suppose everybody is telling you how great it is. But please let me tell
                                    you, too, how very great I think it is. It seems that every summer you pile up
                                    against me a great debt of gratitude. Two years ago I read "The
                                    Crossing" as I floated through the Maine wilderness in a canoe. I had to
                                    write you then. Your "Coniston" is just as big a thing as
                                    "The Crossing" was and in its way as big as "The
                                    Crisis". What a marvelous work you are doing!
                        I confess I am sorry that you make Jethro Bass feel repentance. My experience with
                                    these men—and it has been a wide and intimate one—shows that
                                    they do not feel any repentance whatever. What one might call "public
                                    conscience" has been atrophied in them so long that they have it no
                                    more—or rather they excised it in the beginning. It is quite true they
                                    are full of human nature, full of immense capabilities for love and hate. Quay, whom
                                    I knew extremely well because of my long fight with him over statehood, was that
                                    kind of a man.5 He had a good deal of lovableness in him. But I
                                    do not think any of them ever have an instant of regret. Some of them do not have
                                    any affection or hatred either. They are just as bloodless as a stone and just as
                                    passionless as a serpant [sic]. If ever I see you I will point two
                                    or three of this type out to you, but whether they are warm-blooded like Quay and
                                    full of loves and hates like him or whether they have ice in their veins like
                                    certain other men I could name, none of them have any public conscience whatever,
                                    none of them have regret and every last one of them care only for one
                                    thing—to win.
                        I am a little bit sorry, too, that you made Bass so admirable a character. Everybody
                                    will love him. I love him myself. Every young man in the country will want to
                                    emulate him, copy him; except that all will say, "what an ass he was to
                                    have thrown up his victory over Worthington." The reason of this is that we
                                    are worshipping success in this country. If it only would have been possible to have
                                    told the truth and in the telling of it made Worthington and Bass both fail and come
                                    to horrible ends, it would have made me very happy. But then, of course, I suppose
                                    you could not do it and tell the truth about it.
                        There is one other thing I want to point out to you: The Constitution down in 
                                        Washington
                                     is made the excuse and argument against all the reforms we urge down
                                    there against every great corporate abuse and against other abuses. Every time we
                                    put in a bill like the meat inspection or railway rate bill or any needed measure,
                                    up comes the interests' "Great Constitutional lawyers"
                                    and show very clearly that we are ripping the Constitution all to pieces. Of course,
                                    we are doing 
                              
                                 5 Senator Matthew S. Quay, Republican of 
                                                Pennsylvania
                                            , was a power in his own state and in the 
                                                United States
                                             Senate. Quay died in 1904. For an account of the Beveridge-Quay
                                            duel over statehood for Arizona and New 
                                                Mexico
                                            , see Bowers, Beveridge and the Progressive
                                            Era, 193–207.
                           
                                     nothing of the kind. But my seven years
                                    experience in public life in 
                                        Washington
                                     teaches me that the Constitution is made the bulwark of the very
                                    things, which as I understand it, you are battling against yourself.
                        On this subject let me say that I am reading your speeches with keenest interest. I
                                    doubt whether you will win the nomination this time. They are probably too strong
                                    for you just now. But if you will only remember that this is just the beginning and
                                    keep at it, keep everlastingly at it, you are quite as sure to win as the sun will
                                    rise every morning,—as any other process of nature to perform its
                                    distinct function. The trouble is one has to give one's life to it. It is
                                    too bad that it is so, but it is. The people are so busy about their own affairs.
                                    The storekeeper wants to sell goods and then at night he wants to amuse himself; the
                                    lawyer is interested in his case; the farmer in his crops. And in their odd hours
                                    all of them want to amuse themselves. It is pretty hard to keep them interested in
                                    the government. And the women, of course, want to go to a theatre in the evening or
                                    play cards or go to a party or something of that kind. Primaries bore them. And the
                                    common refrain of the wife of the American business man is to "let dirty
                                    old politics alone." So you see you have taken a big
                                    contract—but not too big if you despair not and come up smiling every
                                    time you are knocked out. From your speeches I gather that it is you against a
                                    railroad—but a man can lick a railroad or anything else
                                    at any time, only he must be a man, and you are that. But this is
                                    not what I started out to say. I started out to tell you of my gratitude for this
                                    great piece of literature which I have just laid down. No matter what success any of
                                    us have in politics, no matter what success you yourself have in politics, it cannot
                                    be equalled by the amazing career you are making for yourself in permanent
                                    literature.
                        Won't you please remember me to your charming wife whom I met for a moment
                                    only at the White House when Miss Roosevelt was married.6
                        
                        With very best wishes, I am, dear Mr. Churchill,
                        
                                    Very sincerely,
                                    Albert J. Beveridge
                                
                        Mr. Winston Churchill, Cornish, N. H.
                     
                  
               
                
            Churchill's own copy of his reply to the foregoing letter from Beveridge is as follows:
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    September 25, 1906.
                                
                        My dear Senator Beveridge:
                        I thank you heartily for your kind letter, which believe me I appreciated, and I am
                                    very much shocked to find it at the bottom of my pile now together with a part of an
                                    answer which I made to it at the time. I was on my back when I received it, though
                                    in the 
                              
                                 6 Churchill's wife was Mabel Hall Churchill.
                                            The wedding mentioned refers to that of President Theodore
                                            Roosevelt's daughter, Alice, whose marriage to Nicholas Longworth
                                            in the White House in March, 1905, was the social event of the
                                        season.
                           
                                     midst of my campaign, having either drunk some
                                    water or eaten some ptomaine. And since then I have had scarcely an hour to myself
                                    when I have been at home. I hope to see you when I go to 
                                        Washington
                                     and defend my course in Coniston. I thought it all out very carefully
                                    when I wrote it.
                        Since the Convention I have not had a moment's time because I have been at
                                    work, even at this late day, trying to get picked men into the Legislature to pass
                                    our laws, our platform having been incorporated into that of the Convention.7 We have no intention whatever of dropping our work, and we are
                                    organizing now for the next campaign.
                        Believe me, with regard,
                        
                                    Sincerely yours,
                                    [Winston Churchill]
                                
                        Senator Albert J. Beveridge, Rangeley, 
                                        Maine
                                    .
                     
                  
               
                
            Churchill lost the political battle in 1906, but he did not abandon politics. By the summer of 1910,
                    he was actively campaigning for his friend, Robert Bass, a Progressive Republican who sought the
                    nomination for governor of 
                        New Hampshire
                    . Churchill asked Senator Beveridge to make a speech at 
                  Newport, New
                    Hampshire
               , in behalf of Bass's candidacy, but Beveridge replied that
                    he could not honestly do so because he had refused other invitations of a similar nature throughout
                    New 
                        England
                    . Churchill was disappointed and complained that no one would come into 
                        New Hampshire
                     to aid the Progressives, whereas he had often traveled out of the state to campaign for
                    others. This statement seems to be an indication of Churchill's importance politically. A
                    close friend of Theodore Roosevelt, an author with an immense reading public, and possessor of a
                    magnetic personality, Churchill was in much demand as a speaker. Assisted by his efforts, Bass won
                    the Republican nomination in 1910, and the 
                        Boston
                     & Maine Railroad machine was smashed.8 Beveridge noted
                    these occurrences in a letter on September 12, 1910, and appealed for help in his own campaign for a
                    third term as 
                        United States
                     senator from Indiana.
            
               
                  7 The Republican state convention was held at 
                     Concord, New
                        Hampshire
                  , September 18, 1906. Churchill failed to win the Republican
                        nomination for governor, but a progressive platform was adopted. See Titus, "Winston
                        Churchill, American: A Critical Biography," 245–246; "Mr.
                        Churchill's Virtual Victory," The Outlook, LXXXIV (September
                        29, 1906), 243; Leon Richardson, William E. Chandler, Republican, 685.
               
                  8 For a discussion of Churchill's efforts on behalf of Bass, see
                        Titus, "Winston Churchill, American: A Critical Biography," chap. 5; for
                        information on the destruction of the 
                            Boston
                         & Maine machine, see Richardson, William E. Chandler,
                            Republican, 709–713.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 , Ind.,
                           
                                    Sept. 12, 1910.
                                
                        My dear Churchhill [sic]:
                        I had just arrived at 
                                        St. Paul
                                     when I learned of the result in 
                              New Hampshire, Wisconsin, Michigan, California
                           , and so I sent you
                                    the telegram I did, as well as one to Bass. LaPollette's victory in
                                    Wisconsin did not surprise me.9 Of course it was inspiring to
                                    the cause throughout the country, but in this inspiration it was not comparable to
                                    our victory in 
                                        New Hampshire
                                    . That was great! It was unanswerable! There was the state which the
                                    interests boasted was the most reactionary in the whole Nation. Yet Bass, following
                                    in your footsteps and profiting from your work, reaping also the reward of his own
                                    earnest sincerity, defeated the machine of the 
                                        Boston
                                     & Maine and all the forces of reaction. There is no answer
                                    anywhere to the progressive victory in 
                                        New Hampshire
                                    .
                        I cannot but recall what I said in a little talk I made to the 
                                        Dublin
                                     Club10 about the fact that once more New 
                                        England
                                     blood had reasserted itself on its native soil; that the progressive
                                    spirit of the middle West was only the old New 
                                        England
                                     spirit asserting itself through its more virile sons who had settled
                                    the middle West and that when 
                              Iowa, Kansas, Wisconsin
                            and Indiana (most of
                                    all Indiana, because we spoke first in April, you know)11
                                    declared themselves for righteousness and honesty, it was nothing more than the
                                    spirit of the Tea Party again asserting itself and the voices of Garrison and
                                        Phillips12 once more speaking from the heart of the
                                    Republic.
                        Now the practical point of this letter is this: Since LaFollette's
                                    tremendous victory in 
                                        Wisconsin
                                    , all the powers of pillage have concentrated on Indiana. I think you
                                    could not possibly believe, unless you personally knew, their desperate malignity.
                                    Nevertheless, the reports to our Committee, which is perfectly loyal to me by the
                                    way, are such as to indicate, even more than when I saw you, that we shall win
                                    despite them all and by a historic majority.
                        But, my dear fellow, I must depend upon my friends who believe in the general cause
                                    for which we all stand and who live outside of my own state and who are far more
                                    powerful in mind and strength and courage and character than I am, to help me.
                                    Although I came out here in April and ran to the masthead the flag of our cause
                                    single handed and alone and although I am fighting here single handed and alone,
                                    notwithstanding I know that the rest of you are a good deal braver and a good deal
                                    abler than I am.
                        
                           
                              9 Robert M. LaFollette, insurgent Republican senator from 
                                            Wisconsin
                                        .
                           
                              10 An unidentified club in 
                                 Dublin, New
                                                Hampshire
                              . Beveridge often spent part of the summer
                                        months in a cottage at 
                                            Dublin
                                        .
                           
                              11 The Indiana Republican state convention at 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , April 1910, endorsed Senator Beveridge for a third term to the 
                                            United States
                                         Senate, but a party rupture between the insurgents and the Old
                                        Guard group proved disastrous to Beveridge's candidacy. See Bowers, Beveridge and the Progressive Era, 384–402.
                           
                              12 William Lloyd Garrison and Wendell Phillips.
                        
                        
                        But however that may be I need you badly and must have you. All of our people are
                                    coming. You promised me to give me one week. That promise I must hold you to. The
                                    battle is over in 
                                        New Hampshire
                                    ; it is only on in Indiana. The Republican majority in 
                                        New Hampshire
                                     is such that Bass and the whole ticket is sure of election. I am sure
                                    that the citizens of Indiana will accomplish the same thing here, but if the old
                                    party lines still exist at all, which I hope they do not, the election is not a
                                    matter of course in this State as it is in your state.
                        When I began the fight in the State Convention in April I confirmed the great forces
                                    who were determined to crush this movement in their resolve. They are making good on
                                    their side. They are pouring money into this State in a quantity such as I have
                                    never seen in my twenty-five years of political experience. Not only that, but there
                                    is nothing known to malevolent ingenuity to which they are not resorting.
                        I have told the State Committee of your promise to me and there already is a demand
                                    for you. We have not published in the papers that you are coming, but it has leaked
                                    out and it is as astonishing as it is inspiring to find the demands that are coming
                                    in for you.
                        I beg you to remember that the so-called intellectual classes of this country are
                                    nowhere so vigorous and powerful as in this center of the country's
                                    population. Just remember that we have more literary clubs, clubs that cut ice, and
                                    have more men and women who read your books, for example, than any other State in
                                    the Union. Remember that while there is only one Winston Churchhill [sic] yet from Indiana today comes James Whitcomb Riley and John
                                    McCutcheon, and David Graham Phillips, and George Ade, and Booth Tarkington, and
                                    Meredith Nicholson and Charles Major, and a lot of other fellows. I am merely
                                    mentioning them to show you that your audiences out here will be more appreciative
                                    than in any other to which you could speak in the whole country. The mere
                                    announcement that you are coming will do me and our cause more good than you will be
                                    willing to believe.
                        I want you to telegraph me just as soon as you get this letter what week you will
                                    give me.
                        I am afraid you are a little bit miffed that I did not make the speech you asked me
                                    to. I could not do it without convicting myself of falsehood and also of having
                                    utterly destroyed my work time vacation. During all the time I was at 
                                        Dublin
                                     I kept one stenographer there and part of the time two, and I have
                                    worked as I seldom work preparing for this campaign. If I had spoken for you I would
                                    have been compelled to speak at least three other times in New 
                                        England
                                     and that would have meant many other speeches. It could not have been
                                    done. I hope you understand the situation. I am very sure you will when you reflect
                                    again that I have on my poor weak shoulders a state of three million people where
                                    the old regime has been arrogantly, brutally and absolutely dominant for the last
                                    twenty years and where I have had to stand up all alone fighting for what we all are
                                    fighting for and getting rocks and bricks and various other missiles as a reward.
                        
                                    Faithfully,
                                    Albert J. Beveridge
                                
                        Mr. Winston Churchill, Cornish, N. H.
                     
                  
               
                
            
            Churchill promised he would go to Indiana to speak for Beveridge, but by early October of 1910 it
                    appeared that he might have to break his promise. Therefore he wrote Beveridge accordingly: 
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              [Cornish, 
                                    New Hampshire
                                 ]
                           
                                    October 7, 1910.
                                
                        Honourable Albert J. Beveridge, 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , Indiana.
                        Dear Senator:
                        I telegraphed you the other day to the effect that my personal affairs have become so
                                    involved that, in addition to the work which is being thrown on me in the Bass
                                    campaign, I am embarrassed and overwhelmed. It is true that I told you I would go
                                    out and speak for you, and under the circumstances this promise has given me a good
                                    many disquieting moments. I never had the reputation of not keeping my word: but
                                    sometimes matters arise which make it necessary to ask to be let off. I ask you for
                                    the present to let me off, and if it turns out to be possible for me to come I will
                                    do so. I wish you every success, and from what I hear I am sure that you will have
                                    it. It is not always possible to enter into details, or I should give you a more
                                    definite reason. If I find that I can come, I will telegraph you if you still want
                                    me.
                        
                                    Sincerely yours,
                                    [Winston Churchill]
                                
                     
                  
               
            
            Beveridge was facing not only an able Democratic nominee, John Worth Kern, but opposition from Old
                    Guard elements within his own party as well. He still wanted Churchill's help and lost no
                    time in replying.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 , Indiana.
                           
                                    October 11, 1910.
                                
                        My Dear Churchill:
                        I am just in receipt of your letter of October 7th. Of course, I keenly regret the
                                    probability that you will not be able to come to Indiana, but at the same time I
                                    understand just what concerns you in 
                                        New Hampshire
                                    .
                        But if it is impossible for you to come in person, you could do us a tremendous
                                    amount of good if you would write a letter for publication in the newspapers out
                                    here. Next to a speech delivered by you, I can think of nothing that would be more
                                    effective than a letter on the situation written in your own forceful style.
                        But we shall hope that events may yet so shape themselves that it will be possible
                                    after all for you to come to us. We are going to win a glorious victory in Indiana
                                    this fall. It is not a campaign at all—it is an uprising of the people.
                                    But, of course, we are leaving no stone upturned.
                        
                        With kindest regards and best wishes, I am
                        
                                    Sincerely,
                                    Albert J. Beveridge
                                
                        Mr. Winston Churchill, 
                              Windsor,
                                            Vermont
                           .
                     
                  
               
                
            Churchill finally went to Indiana and gave three speeches in Senator Beveridge's behalf in
                    late October of 1910. But the Senator had been too sanguine about the prospects of victory. Although
                    insurgent Republicans generally did well in the 1910 elections, Beveridge himself lost his seat to
                    his Democratic opponent, John W. Kern. Churchill sent his regrets to Beveridge on November 12,
                    remarking, however, that "such defeats as these are merely precursors of greater victories
                    in time to come."13 Four days later Beveridge replied.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 , Ind.,
                           
                                    Nov. 16, 1910.
                                
                        My dear Churchhill [sic]:
                        Thank you for your letter of November 12th. You are absolutely right. I am not in the
                                    least depressed—not even discouraged. Such things happen to all of us.
                        As nearly as things can be summarized, the result may be attributed to the following
                                    causes:
                        First, we had to contend with the local option (liquor) question, which took from us,
                                    to begin with, the great so-called liberal vote. Of this vote at least ninety per
                                    cent, of the Germans (assuming many Germans to be liberal vote) are progressive.
                        Second, we had the brewery and combined liquor interests, the Hotel Keepers'
                                    Association (which was exceedingly powerful and effective), most of the cigar stands
                                    and, in short, all of the interests directly or indirectly affiliated with the
                                    brewery and liquor interests, determined upon the repeal of the county local option
                                    law first and above all else.
                        Third, I was up against the biggest campaign fund ever seen in the State. None of our
                                    men ever saw so much money or believed there was so much money in the world.
                                    Counting in the Tobacco Trust, the Beef Trust and others (all of whom I expected to
                                    do their worst) these did not account for the money that was used against us.
                                    Apparently they had a hundred or even a thousand dollars for every cent we could
                                    scrape together. With this came all those things about which you know.
                        Fourth, we had bitter resentment against the Payne Aldrich Tariff Law, which was more
                                    far-reaching than even I imagined.
                        All things considered, I think our showing was very, very remarkable indeed. While
                                    Rep[ublican] Ohio went a hundred thousand 
                              
                                 13 Letter from Churchill, 
                                    Windsor, Vermont
                                 , to Beveridge, 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , Indiana, November 12, 1910. (Carbon copy in the Churchill
                                            Collection at Dartmouth College.)
                           
                                     Democratic; Republican 
                                        Massachusetts
                                    , thirty thousand Democratic; Republican 
                                        Illinois
                                    , nobody knows how much Democratic; Pennsylvania with her three hundred
                                    thousand Republican majority, a bare twenty thousand Republican; yet "doubtful" Indiana goes about twelve thousand Democratic,
                                    a smaller majority than was given Governor Marshall two years ago.14
                        
                        In our legislative fight, our candidates ran far ahead of Congressional candidates.
                                    In some places our legislative candidates ran far ahead of all other tickets, in a
                                    number of cases being defeated by a very narrow margin. For example, one lost by
                                    three votes, another by seven, another by twenty-one, another by seventy, another by
                                    eighty-seven and still another by six. A thousand votes properly distributed would
                                    have changed the complexion of the legislature.
                        In Vanderburg County (
                                        Evansville
                                    ) the legislative candidates ran about twelve hundred votes ahead of the
                                    Congressional candidate, who was a standpatter.
                        Curiously enough, in the other end of the State, in 
                                        St. Joseph County
                                     (
                                        South Bend
                                    ) we elected our legislative candidates by over twelve hundred, whereas
                                    the Democratic Congressional candidate carried the county by over five hundred.
                        Therefore, although I am surprised, I am not disheartened. After all, in this case,
                                    it is a real moral victory, for the State will never return to the old time methods
                                    and the old antiquted [sic] idea of public discussion. The sound
                                    economic principles which we placed before the people during the campaign for
                                    absolutely needed reforms are seeds which will bring their sure harvest. We have
                                    just begun to fight.
                        In closing, I want to thank you with all my heart for the great aid you gave me in
                                    the campaign. It is very very deeply appreciated. The odds were simply too great.
                        With kindest regards and best wishes, I am,
                        
                                    Faithfully,
                                    Albert J. Beveridge
                                
                        Mr. Winston Churchhill [sic], 
                                        Windsor
                                    , Vt.
                     
                  
               
                
            This is the last Beveridge letter in the Churchill Collection at Dartmouth. If others follow, the
                    author did not place them in his permanent files, which were bequeathed to the college at his death.
                    It is possible, also, that other letters may have been destroyed by the fire which consumed
                    Harlakenden House, Churchill's home at Cornish, 
                        New Hampshire
                    , in 1923.
            
               
                  14 Democratic Governor Thomas R. Marshall, later vice-president of the 
                            United States
                        .
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Drums in the Forest. By Alfred Procter James and Charles Morse Stotz. Special
                    bicentennial issue, The Western Pennsylvania Historical Magazine, Volume XLI, Nos.
                    3 & 4. (
                        Pittsburgh
                    : Historical Society of Western 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , 1958. Pp. viii, 227. Illustrations, diagrams, maps, bibliography, notes, index.
                    Paperbound, no price indicated; cloth, $3.50.)
            In commemorating the two-hundredth anniversary of the establishment of an outpost of Anglo-American
                    civilization at the forks of the 
                        Ohio
                    , the Historical Society of Western Pennsylvania has issued a bicentennial number of its
                        Magazine containing two separate works on the early days of Fort Pitt and the
                    events leading to its founding. Dr. Alfred Procter James, Professor Emeritus at the University of 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , has in the past four decades authored many contributions to the history of the region.
                    His previous research has been brought to bear in the first section of this special issue,
                    "Decision at the Forks," in relating the historical background of the Anglo-French
                    struggle in North America, and particularly the local phase culminating in the capture of Fort
                    Duquesne by an Anglo-American army under General John Forbes in 1758. Based on scholarly research,
                    this article makes a significant contribution to the literature of the Forbes campaign, especially
                    in that it reveals the logistical difficulties facing eighteenth-century armies operating in the
                    wilderness of North America. On the basis of James's analysis, one might well conclude that
                    problems of supply and transportation were factors as important to the English as the military
                    menace of the French and Indian enemy. In the judgment of this reviewer, Dr. James's
                    account is, however, marred by inclusion of a relatively lengthy introduction that presents material
                    not immediately relevant and material already familiar to most general readers. A description of the
                    geology of the region, a discussion of the American Indian, and a survey of colonial history and
                    imperial government are hardly necessary for an appreciation of the specific subject under
                    consideration. Stricter editorial control might have deleted peripheral material and incorporated
                    the more relevant data on the Forbes campaign into the longer article, "Defense in the
                    Wilderness," by Charles Morse Stotz.
            A trustee of the Historical Society of Western Pennsylvania and a Fellow of the American Institute of
                    Architects, Stotz has long pursued an avocational interest in early local architecture. His article
                    is the fruit of over ten years of research in American and European archives. This fact is well
                    demonstrated in his comprehensive treatment of the five forts built at the forks of the Ohio and
                    discussion of related fortifications in the area during the colonial period. The editor is well
                    justified in contending that Stotz's work constitutes the first comprehensive treatment of
                    the subject in this country. Beautifully reproduced contemporary maps and plans of the
                    fortifications taken from  such collections as exist in the
                    Public Record Office and 
                        Windsor
                     Castle in 
                        England
                    , the Huntingdon and Clements libraries in this country, and the Bibliothèque
                    nationale, 
                        Paris
                    , are functional as well as decorative. The sketches done by Mr. Stotz himself, as well
                    as the glossary of contemporary terms of military fortifications, aid the reader in understanding
                    the technical aspects of military construction.
            For the work of a non-professional historian, this piece is remarkably free from errors of fact and
                    judgment. Two exceptions might be noted. Stotz erroneously refers to the imperial Superintendent for
                    Indian Affairs in the Northern District, Sir William Johnson, who was a royal official after 1754,
                    as "the 
                        New York
                     Indian Agent" (p. 177). In commenting on the capture of Fort Prince George by
                    a French force of 500 men under Contrecoeur in 1754, he states that since the English were
                    outnumbered "about 50 to one" the little garrison of "41 men"
                    capitulated (p. 125). This evident slip in calculation should not detract from the fortitude of the
                    British defenders, for the actual odds against them—twelve to one—were heavy
                    enough as it was.
            As the author has pointed out, our knowledge of the early forts is limited to a few contemporary
                    drawings and maps and to details gleaned from military papers and eye-witness accounts. These are
                    only a few pieces of the puzzle, and much conjecture is still necessary to supply the missing
                    pieces. This conjecture is rendered less hazardous by a knowledge of architecture and building, a
                    study of the early handbooks on fortifications used by military engineers, and a liberal supply of
                    common sense. Mr. Stotz is to be congratulated on his intelligent use of all three.
            James's and Stotz's work forms a small but valuable book, packed with information
                    not usually available to the historian. This reviewer will now more than ever before appreciate the
                    immense difficulties facing eighteenth-century armies in the wilderness, and he is left with
                    enhanced appreciation of their achievements. A debt of thanks is therefore due the authors of Drums in the Forest.
            
            
               University of 
                            Nebraska
                        
                Jack M. Sosin
         
         
            
               Schoolcraft's Expedition to Lake Itasca: The Discovery of the Source of the 
                            Mississippi
                        . Edited by Philip P. Mason. (East Lansing: Michigan State University Press,
                    1958. Pp. xxvi, 390. Appendices, bibliography, index. $7.50.)
            In 1832, Henry Rowe Schoolcraft was authorized by the 
                        United States
                     government to lead an expedition into the upper regions of the Old Northwest to quell
                    the hostilities between the Chippewa and Sioux tribes. This directive provided Schoolcraft with the
                    opportunity of satisfying his ambition of discovering the true source of the Mississippi River. Schoolcraft's Expedition to Lake Itasca consists of
                    Schoolcraft's semi-official report of the expedition and rather extensive appendices
                    containing the journals of three companions as well as various letters and contemporary newspaper
                    accounts relating to the notable exploration.
            
            The appendices, which comprise more than two-thirds of the entire volume, are primarily the notes,
                    diaries, and unofficial reports of Schoolcraft's most important hand-picked
                    aides—Dr. Douglas Houghton, a physician; the Reverend Mr. William T. Boutwell, a
                    Presbyterian missionary; and Lieutenant James Allen, who directed the ten-man military escort. These
                    three men contributed a great deal to the success of the expedition by exploiting their own natural
                    abilities in the fulfillment of Schoolcraft's objectives. Moreover, Dr. Houghton was
                    responsible for the vaccination of several thousand Indians against smallpox. Reverend Boutwell, as
                    a result of his report to the American Board of Foreign Missions, contributed significantly to the
                    establishment of several Presbyterian churches in the upper Mississippi region. Lieutenant Allen was
                    the official journalist and cartographer of the expedition. His detailed map of the vast area was
                    extremely useful to future explorers of the Minnesota wilderness.
            Schoolcraft's narrative, covering the entire duration of the expedition from the embarkation
                    at Sault Ste. Marie on June 7, 1832, to its completion twenty-eight hundred miles later on August
                    14, 1832, is filled with descriptive material that is extremely well-written and most informative
                    with regard to the Indian life and the geography of the rugged forest area around Lake Itasca. The
                    expedition was remarkably successful, for not only was the true source of the Mississippi River
                    discovered, but a tremendous amount of information dealing with Indian culture, the operation of the
                    fur trade, mineral deposits—notably copper—and the natural history of the area
                    was transcribed by School-craft and his companions. This material was of immense value to future
                    explorers, traders, and missionaries who penetrated to the headwaters of the 
                        Mississippi
                    .
            The journals of Houghton, Boutwell, and Allen are somewhat repetitious and, in some cases,
                    contradictory as to the exact names of locales visited. However, these conflicting details are
                    relatively unimportant in the general context of the narrative. Professor Mason has done a
                    creditable job in editing the journals relating to this important event in the development of the
                    West. In spite of minor shortcomings, the volume contains valuable and indispensable material on the
                    Indians and their environment. It stands as a monument to a great American explorer and ethnologist.
            
               Indiana University Robert C. Alther, Jr.
         
         
            
               The Nation Takes Shape, 1789–1837. By Marcus Cunliffe. The 
                            Chicago
                         History of American Civilization. Edited by Daniel J. Boorstin. (
                        Chicago
                    : University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1959. Pp. vii, 222. Bibliographical note, chronology, index. $3.50.)
            This well-written and perceptive essay in interpretation is the ninth volume to appear in The 
                            Chicago
                         History of American Civilization. While presumably this, like the other titles
                    in the series, is intended for "the general reader," the author presents enough
                    that is fresh and provocative to command the attention of the historically sophisticated. Indeed, it
                    may be doubted that "the general reader" who lacks a sound  grounding in the period will be in a position to appreciate the very
                    real merits of the volume.
            While Mr. Cunliffe's English background and education have doubtless been conducive to fresh
                    insight and new perspective, they may also explain occasional lapses. For example, some might
                    disagree with the sharp dichotomy between the pioneers (equated with squatters) and the
                    "steady farmers," a later and more respectable breed who achieved permanent
                    occupancy (p. 81). Certainly the Battle of Tippecanoe was not "inconclusive" in a
                    tactical sense, and General Procter might have objected to the Battle of the Thames being described
                    as a defeat of the "Shawnee confederacy and their British allies" (p. 84). The
                    Yankee influence in northern Indiana is probably exaggerated (p. 91). The use of the term
                    "paved" (p. 102) in relation to the National Road of the 1830's is likely
                    to be misleading—at least for the general reader. The sending of "young Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                     of 
                        Illinois
                    " on two flatboat trips down the Mississippi perpetuates a
                    common error (p. 103). And the contributions of 
                        Fulton
                    , Whitney, Washburn, 
                        Lowell
                     and Moody, Evans, Morse, and Colt throw some doubt on the claim that "all the
                    major mechanical inventions of the period were European" (p. 115).
            After an introductory chapter Mr. Cunliffe presents seven essays on constitutional theory, foreign
                    policy, the westward movement, commerce and industry, the antipodes of nationalism and sectionalism,
                    the complex interaction of conservative and experimental forces, and finally, "The American
                    Character." A critical bibliography is appended. The author is clearly aware that, if
                    history is not a lie agreed upon, it often crystallizes as a venerable over-simplification. In
                    striving for dramatic and teachable presentations, doubtless traditional treatments have dealt too
                    much in simple antithesis, black vs. white. Cunliffe plausibly demonstrates in case after case that
                    significant individuals stubbornly refused to conform consistently to retrospectively imposed
                    patterns of East vs. West, agrarianism vs. capitalism, democracy vs. aristocracy, state rights vs.
                    centralization, etc. Some may find this an irritating book, many will find it stimulating and
                    useful.
            
               Indiana Historical Society Hubert H. Hawkins
         
         
            
               The Territorial Papers of the 
                            United States
                        . Volume XXIII, The Territory of 
                            Florida
                        , 1824–1828. Compiled and edited by Clarence Edwin Carter. (
                        Washington
                    : 
                        United States
                     Government Printing Office, 1958. Pp. v, 1191. Maps, index. $6.50.)
            This volume is a rich depository of information for students of 
                        Florida
                    's territorial history. It contains selected documents and letters relating to
                    the latter part of the first administration of Governor William P. Du 
                        Val
                    , 1824–1825, and to his second administration, 1825–1828.
            The federal government and Governor Du Val were confronted by problems in Florida more complex than
                    were usually found in new territories. At the time of the area's purchase from 
                        Spain
                     in 1821, 
                        Florida
                    's white population was concentrated around Pensacola and St. Augustine, which
                    were more than four hundred miles apart. Moreover,  the rivers
                    that flow north and south prevented any satisfactory intercourse between the two settlements,
                    particularly in flood seasons. To facilitate the administration of East and West 
                        Florida
                    , the federal government constructed a road between Pensacola and St. Augustine and
                    located the permanent capital, Tallahassee, near this thoroughfare, approximately equidistant
                    between the old towns. The herculean task of building this road is well depicted in this volume.
            Carter presents documents that illustrate further problems of the federal and territorial governments
                    in 
                        Florida
                    . Difficulties were encountered in the administration, survey, and sale of public lands.
                    Errors in the earlier survey of the 
                        Florida
                    -
                        Georgia
                     boundary line and the presence of numerous lakes and swamps made it impossible for the
                    surveyors to do their work in a satisfactory manner. Much of the land available to settlers in East
                    Florida was plastered with Spanish land claims, each of which had to be judged separately and at
                    considerable expense. Finally, timber thieves denuded large areas of public lands of the oak and
                    cedar trees so valuable to the navy in those years.
            The Indians posed still another administrative problem in Florida which is reflected in this volume.
                    A treaty with the Indians in 1823 set aside the greater part of the peninsula, much of which was
                    swampy and unfit for cultivation, as an Indian reserve. This treaty bred discontent, particularly
                    among the Seminoles, and consequently, Governor Du Val was faced constantly with the dangers of
                    Indian wars. The Seminoles added to his troubles by providing a haven for fugitive slaves and by
                    purchasing whiskey and firearms from Cuban smugglers. Detailed records of annuities and rations
                    accorded the Indians enhance the value of this volume.
            Carter has selected documents and letters that present significant information about the
                    establishment of an efficient mail service, the formation of the first legislative council and its
                    personnel, the "wreckers" on the Florida Keys who salvaged vessels without
                    licenses from the federal government, and the pirates and smugglers who plied their trade in the
                    waters between 
                        Cuba
                     and Key West.
            The index of 120 pages is certainly adequate. Unfortunately, there are no modern maps to help one
                    locate places and rivers, the names of which were changed in later years.
            
               Indiana University Powell A. Moore
         
         
            
               The Log-Cabin Campaign. By Robert G. Gunderson. (
                        Lexington
                    : University of Kentucky Press, 1957. Pp. viii, 292. Illustrations, bibliographical
                    note, index. $7.50.)
            The presidential campaign of 1840 was the resurgent Whig answer to the realities of an expanding
                    suffrage. Dissatisfaction with Jacksonianism, dominant for almost a dozen years, was widespread. The
                    country was still suffering from the Panic of '37, and the younger Whigs, facing up to the
                    situation, overpowered the older aristocratic elements within the party and prepared to receive into
                    their camp all the diverse dissatisfied voters in the country.
            In 1840 the Whig party was a "complex conglomeration of economic, sectional, personal, and
                    ideological components" (p. 11). Realizing it  would
                    not be possible to unite these various interests behind a positive program of action, Whig leaders
                    chose to be simply anti-Jacksonian and hoped to conceal the dissonance behind the noise and
                    commotion of an all-out campaign. They succeeded in this so well that the campaign of 1840 became
                    the most remarkable in party annals of the country.
            To defeat Martin Van Buren and Jackonianism the Whigs chose as their standard bearer the aging
                    William Henry Harrison of 
                  North Bend, Ohio
               , son of a Virginia aristocrat and signer of
                    the Declaration of Independence, and himself one-time governor of Indiana Territory and hero of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    . For his running mate they chose John Tyler, a spokesman for the Virginia Tidewater
                    aristocracy who had broken with 
                        Jackson
                     over nullification. During the campaign they beat the drums for "old
                    Tip," and portrayed their "Hero" as a Buckeye living in a log cabin and
                    drinking hard cider.
            After setting the background for his study of this campaign in two chapters entitled "The
                    Commotion" and "Resurgent Whiggery," Professor Gunderson proceeds to
                    analyze the various factors leading to the Whig victory. In a chapter entitled "Cynical
                    Bosses and Pious Rationalizations" he deals with the roles of personal political
                    organizations which politicians found easy to build up by playing on the increasing sectional
                    rivalries and hard times. The author goes on to point out that nothing resembling a platform was
                    drawn up at the 
                        Harrisburg
                     convention. The leaders of the new Whig party did not want their candidates pledged
                    "to any particular set of measures" (p. 65). The Whig answer to the
                    Democrats' taunts about a lack of program was merely, "Without a why or wherefore/
                    We'll go for Harrison therefore" (p. 77).
            The Whigs presented the candidates of the two parties as contrasts—Harrison was
                    represented as a Cincinnatus of homely talents and compared to Democratic candidate Martin Van Buren
                    who was described as Little 
                        Van
                    , "a fop who wore ruffles, perfumed his whiskers," etc. (p.
                    114–115). To whip up enthusiasm, special demonstrations were held throughout the country.
                    As spectacular as any was the encampment on the Tippecanoe battleground, where cider flowed and
                    Whigs orated, and "fifteen acres of men" plus "6000 females" set
                    up camp. Harrison took to the stump himself—avoiding "major issues either by
                    equivocation or confining himself to irrelevancies about cabins and Indian fighting" (p.
                    169). There were also the Whig champions of the Old South and what Gunderson refers to as
                    "the Davy Crocket Line" representing the new log-cabin Whiggery,
                    "speakers of humble origin with the vocabulary and accent of the workingman,"
                    "men of fluent tongue and iron constitution" (p. 200). Among them were John W.
                    Bear, "the Buckeye Blacksmith"; Tom Corwin; and Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    , the rail-splitter and storyteller. Democratic counterattack made little headway
                    against such mass enthusiasm.
            When the votes were in, Harrison had a popular vote of 1,269,763; Van Buren, 1,126,137. The electoral
                    vote was 254 to 60. An analysis of the returns, Professor Gunderson notes, shows gains by both
                    parties over 1836, and "it was clear that [the Whig]…victory lay not so much in
                    changing Democratic votes as in bringing out others who had never before voted" (p. 256).
                    The popular vote had increased 54 per cent over 1836.
            
            The author, a professor of speech at Indiana University, has approached his subject with enthusiasm
                    and has written a well-organized, well-documented volume, which has been attractively printed and
                    bound by the University of Kentucky Press. Mention should be made of the several well-chosen and
                    interesting illustrations, mostly from the collection of the Historical and Philosophical Society of
                            
                  Ohio, Cincinnati
               .
            
               Indiana Historical Society Gayle Thornbrough
         
         
            
               Lucretia Mott. By Otelia Cromwell. (
                        Cambridge
                    , Mass.: 
                        Harvard
                     University Press, 1958. Pp. x, 241. Frontispiece, bibliography, notes, index.
                    $5.75.)
            During the past thirty years Lucretia Mott, "the gentle missionary of humanity,"
                    has drawn increasing attention from historians and biographers. An opponent of slavery, advocate of
                    women's rights, education, peace, and temperance, 
                        Quaker
                     minister, and reformer of American society, Mrs. Mott has been variously interpreted;
                    this most recent biography contributes in several ways to a better understanding of her.
            Lucretia Mott is represented here as a woman of unusual intelligence, firm character, gentleness, and
                    piety; she was pious enough to irritate some people, but not sanctimonious. Her desire to be
                    reasonable and logical about every serious subject forms an interesting contrast to her preference
                    for the "graveyard" school of poetry over Shakespeare and her response to
                    "romantic" scenery, stained glass, and Gothic architecture. Furthermore, according
                    to her biographer, Mrs. Mott was not the intense crusader whom some have pictured; the author has
                    presented her subject in a subdued light. At such high points as the mob attack on the
                    Motts" home in 
                        Philadelphia
                     in 1838 and the Seneca Falls Women's Rights Convention of 1848, the author
                    avoids every temptation to exploit a dramatic situation.
            On the other hand, two additional aspects of the story emerge more clearly from this version than
                    from others. One is the solvent effect of the antinomian 
                        Quaker
                     attitudes that Mrs. Mott applied to social and legal institutions. While her
                    singlemindedness and determination produced a unity of purpose and action, when seen through the
                    perspective of progress, they also produced a steady disintegration of existing American
                    institutions. This added perspective on the reform movement significantly extends the depth of
                    American history. The second aspect of Mrs. Mott's story is a delineation of the means by
                    which reform agitation was carried on. Incessant talking, traveling, visiting, writing letters, and
                    making speeches led to the formation of committees and then societies which in turn held conventions
                    that debated and adopted resolutions. Thereby, the scale of talking, traveling, and visiting was
                    further enlarged—less with the intention of building organizations, it seems than of
                    winning converts and accomplishing moral change. Lucretia Mott's career is an excellent
                    demonstration of the unique way in which American reformers of the time did their work.
            Careful scholarship, based on a sensitive appreciation of the times and an impressive exploration of
                    source materials exhibited in the  bibliography and extensive
                    footnotes makes this biography superior in the literature of pre-Civil War reform. A place, however,
                    certainly remains for both past and still uncreated interpretations of Mrs. Mott. This portrait,
                    although written in a simple, straightforward style, suggests an underlying vein of sentiment rather
                    than the pungency, the quince or crabapple, offered by others. Some of Mrs. Mott's private
                    life is subdued almost to the level of imperceptibility. But at present nothing better is available,
                    and we may well be pleased to have so sound, authoritative, and balanced an account.
            
               Ohio University Harry R. Stevens
         
         
            
               J. D. B. De Bow: Magazinist of the Old South. By Ottis Clark Skipper. (
                        Athens
                    : University of 
                        Georgia
                     Press, 1958. Pp. x, 269. Frontispiece, notes, bibliography, appendix, index.
                    $5.00.)
            The solid worth of De Bow's Review has been recognized by two generations
                    of scholars who have used it as a valuable source of information on innumerable subjects. Hundreds
                    of books and monographs have paid tribute in footnotes and bibliographies, in paraphrases and direct
                    quotations. Except for a few articles and W. D. Weatherford's contribution to Southern Sketches in 1935, the man De Bow has been neglected until Ottis Skipper wrote a
                    dissertation on the magazinist several years ago and subsequently expanded it into its published
                    form. Exploiting a remnant of De Bow's papers—"incomplete and sometimes
                    perplexing ledgers" (p. 248), letters, memoranda, and miscellaneous
                    manuscripts—as well as public documents and newspapers, the author has produced a
                    scholarly and comprehensive study.
            Born and educated in 
                        South Carolina
                    , the youthful De Bow went to 
                        New Orleans
                     where he founded the Review in 1846. The magazine continued with only
                    slight interruptions until 1864, when the vicissitudes of war caused suspension of publication until
                    December, 1865. De Bow edited and published an After-the-War Series until his death in 1867. His
                    enduring recognition rests chiefly upon competence of the monthly magazine, but the energetic and
                    hard-working editor served in other capacities. His superintendency of the census from 1853 to 1856
                    made the mid-century report superior to its predecessors and its immediate successors. Contributions
                    to the beginnings of the University of 
                        Louisiana
                    , participation in Southern Commercial Conventions, sundry speeches in widely scattered
                    cities, and significant responsibilities with the Confederate Produce Loan Agency enhanced his
                    reputation. The three-volume Industrial Resources…of the Southern and
                        Western States, largely extracted from the Review, documented much
                    history of the late forties and early fifties. The author's final appraisal of the
                    Southerner seems justified: "De Bow was one of the leading statisticians of his time, the
                    most successful magazinist of the antebellum South, an enlightened champion of agriculture and
                    manufactures, and, save when the prevailing sectional bitterness misled him, a worthy proponent of
                    commerce, railroads, and intellectual culture" (p. 224).
            Dr. Skipper has been only partially successful in distilling the records for the reader's
                    consumption. Indeed, the book is weakest  where it should be
                    strongest. The heart of the subject lies in De Bow and his Review during prewar
                    years. Chapters on this important facet of the topic are arranged in four chronological periods,
                    interspersed with segments pertaining to De Bow's other interests that seriously interrupt
                    a logical development of the magazine's history, its policies, and its contributions. The
                    breaks are essentially artificial, and the writer as well as the reader is hard pressed to pick up
                    continuity and begin again the encyclopedic hodgepodge into which disorganized subject matter is
                    resolved. The chapters, like De Bow, are roughhewn; and, like the Review, they make dull reading.
                    Topical treatment of antebellum agriculture, industry, trade and commerce, public policy, education,
                    literature, and the magazine's circulation would have promoted the reader's
                    understanding and enabled the author to place these subjects in improved regional context.
            Fortunately, several chapters are better groomed. The discussion of De Bow as superintendent of the
                    census is a major contribution in acceptable literary attire; the Civil War and Reconstruction
                    segments make comprehensible reading; and the summary conclusion is an estimable performance.
            
               University of 
                            Oregon
                        
                Wendell Holmes Stephenson
         
         
            
               The Rise and Fall of the Confederate Government. Two volumes. By Jefferson
                    Davis. Foreword by Bell I. Wiley. (
                        New York
                    : Thomas Yoseloff, 1958. Vol. I: Pp. 707. Vol. II: Pp. 808. Illustrations, maps,
                    appendices, indices. $12.50 per set.)
            As the centennial of the Civil War approaches, many readers will welcome the opportunity to examine
                    this new edition of The Rise and Fall of the Confederate Government. This
                    "apologia in retrospect" of Jefferson Davis, major leader of the Confederacy, did
                    not sell well at the time of its original publication in 1881. It was tepidly received in the North,
                    and the price of the book ($10.00 in cloth to $20.00 in "full
                    turkey") was too high for it to be purchased by many improverished Confederates. Therefore
                    this new edition may well reach a much wider audience than the original one.
            The value of the work is increased by the thoughtful Foreword written by Bell I. Wiley. To review the
                    character of the Confederate president is not an easy task, for he was a complex man known
                    intimately only by his own family. Wiley points out that despite the fact Davis seemed to be
                    constantly engulfed in controversy, the chief executive of the Confederacy had his good points. He
                    came to his high office with a sound education and a reputation for fluency both in writing and
                    public address. Few Southern leaders could approach him in devotion to the Confederate cause. His
                    selection as president was aided by the breadth of his political and military experience. Between
                    1845 and 1860 he had served once in the House of Representatives and twice in the 
                        United States
                     Senate, had commanded a Mississippi regiment with distinction in the Mexican War, and
                    had served as secretary of war under 
                        Franklin
                     Pierce. But the list of his shortcomings was also long. Lacking in tact and the ability
                    to get along with people,  he failed in his dealings with his
                    cabinet, his Congress, the press, and the general public. This difficulty was increased by the
                    President's poor health and his dislike of social gatherings. The reasons for
                    Davis' failure as an administrator can be seen in his refusal to delegate authority, his
                    inclination to be slow and overcautious in making decisions, and his marked neglect of civilian
                    affairs in favor of military matters. Many of these weaknesses were first seen only in the tensions
                    of the Civil War. Professor Wiley has given a friendly but objective appraisal of the Confederate
                    president.
            From the opening dedication page, "To the Women of the Confederacy," to the final
                    set of contemporary war maps in volume two, Jefferson Davis wrote and worked diligently to justify
                    the position of the South. In his Preface Davis wrote that his primary object was "to show
                    that the Southern States had rightfully the power to withdraw from the Union into which they had, as
                    sovereign communities, voluntarily entered…." Nearly the entire first volume is
                    a carefully written effort to meet that objective. The last quarter of the first volume consists of
                    appendices including addresses and correspondence of the author before the Civil War. To make easier
                    their comparison, the Constitution of the 
                        United States
                     and the Permanent Constitution of the Confederate States are shown in parallel columns.
                    The second volume reviews the war effort of the Confederacy from the end of 1861 to the conclusion
                    of the conflict. Both volumes are generously illustrated and each is served by a well-prepared
                    index.
            In spending three years writing these volumes, Davis assembled an immense amount of material. Some of
                    it can be found in few other places, and much of it is of real interest, such as the statement by
                    Davis that he was captured wearing a woman's coat in May, 1865, because in fleeing a night
                    camp he mistook his wife's coat for his own (Vol. II, 701). The content of Davis'
                    two volumes so frequently shows the partisanship of the author that the reader need not be alert to
                    hidden bias. And as a valuable source full of the sincere expositions and experiences of the
                    Confederate president, The Rise and Fall of the Confederate Government certainly
                    deserves this new and attractive edition.
            
               Purdue University John F. Stover
         
         
            
               A Rebel's Recollections. Reprint of the fourth edition. By George Gary
                    Eggleston. Introduction by David Donald. Civil War Centennial Series. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1959. Pp. 187. $3.75.)
            For nearly a decade a veritable crescendo of interest in the Civil War has been coming and is now
                    bursting forth as America prepares to "celebrate" the centennial of her most
                    terrible of wars. Historians, not unmindful of the possibilities inherent in this anniversary, have
                    given more than passing attention to the subject of the war and to the surrounding period with the
                    result that a number of significant new works as well as various reprints have appeared. The Indiana
                    University Press is now actively engaged in these projects through its 
                    Civil War Centennial Series, and one of the classics chosen for reprint is the
                    subject of this review.
            George Gary Eggleston, younger brother of Edward Eggleston of Hoosier School-Master
                    fame, was born in Indiana but moved to Virginia shortly before the war. Here he quickly absorbed the
                    charm of the Old Dominion, and when the conflict came he unhesitatingly volunteered for service in
                    the Southern army. George Eggleston was a man of more than ordinary intellect. While a student at a
                    Virginia law school, he showed considerable literary talent and determined to become a
                    "literary lawyer" before the sectional struggle interrupted his studies. After 
                        Appomattox
                     he pursued his love of writing and soon was editing a weekly periodical. His
                    journalistic achievements impressed William Dean Howells, editor of the Atlantic
                        Monthly, and in 1873 Eggleston was commissioned to write serially his reminiscences of life
                    as a Southern soldier for publication in that magazine. The reception of these articles was such
                    that two years later they appeared in book form under the title A Rebel's
                        Recollections which went through four editions by 1905. The volume reviewed here is a
                    reprint of the fourth edition and contains three chapters which the original magazine articles did
                    not include. A comparison of these articles with this reprint reveals that there has been
                    essentially faithful adherence to Eggleston's original text.
            Eggleston did a creditable job in his reminiscences. The writing is quite literate, and excluding
                    occasional awkward sentences, the style is charming. True to his assertion that "I have
                    written chiefly of the things I saw for myself, and…in no sense the story of my personal
                    adventures" (p. 19), the author has contributed what David Donald calls in the Introduction
                    "a significant document in the intellectual history of the Reconstruction period."
                    Eggleston saw in these magazine articles the opportunity to present to Northern readers the story of
                    the late war as Southerners viewed it. He did not intend to present a justification for political
                    theories, but a straightforward account of how the people of that region fought and died for what
                    they considered a sacred duty—action no less honorable than that of those who upheld the
                    cause of the Union. The "hornets' nest" brought down on Editor
                    Howells' ears for printing the first of these papers quickly passed; and by the time the
                    last article appeared, there was general acclaim throughout the North, proving that the country was
                    eager to forget "angry sectionalism and to glorify both the Blue and Grey" (p.
                    16). Thus A Rebel's Recollections, to quote from the Introduction,
                    "was a pioneer step along what Paul H. Buck has called ‘the Road to
                    Reunion.’"
            The exaggerations which are found in this book are quite apparent. But they are not excessive when
                    compared with the typical reminiscences which have come out of the Civil War. The glimpses Eggleston
                    provides—how the armies were raised, the attitude of the women, his impressions of some
                    of the Confederate greats, etc—are all highly entertaining as well as informative. One of
                    the most revealing features of this book is Eggleston's excessively critical attitude
                    toward the 
                        Richmond
                     government in general and President Davis in particular. If one is to believe the
                    author, the Southern soldier was extremely disgruntled and would have been quite happy for General
                    Lee to have taken over the reins completely.
            
            Considering both Eggleston's purpose in writing these sketches and his consummate love for 
                        Virginia
                    , any criticism to be made here comes from the fact that an editing rather than a
                    reprinting of the book seems to have been in order. Mr. Donald's Introduction is an
                    important part of this reprint, in which he gives the necessary background and setting for the book.
                    It is, however, this reviewer's opinion that the text itself should have been gleaned, for
                    while most of the author's allusions to persons and events are familiar to the historian,
                    the layman could enjoy this volume more if the service of identification had been done for him.
            
               Kellogg Community College of Battle Creek Wayne J. Van Der Weele
         
         
            
               The Year 2000: A Critical Biography of Edward Bellamy. By Sylvia E. Bowman. (
                        New York
                    : Bookman Associates, 1958. Pp. 404. Illustrations, annotations, bibliographies, index.
                    $6.00.)
            Posterity has regarded Edward Bellamy as the author of a surprise best-seller, a pretty fairy tale
                    about the ideal society in the year 2000. As that year grows closer—well over half the
                    allotted time has passed since Bellamy wrote Looking Backward in
                    1888—the interest in Bellamy renews. Arthur Morgan furnished the first modern biography
                    in 1944, revealing the full dimensions of the journalist, novelist, and political organizer. Now
                    Sylvia Bowman provides a two-part intellectual biography, concentrating on the development and the
                    mature synthesis of Bellamy's ideas.
            The astonishing achievement of the minister's son from Chicopee Falls, 
                        Massachusetts
                    , lay in capturing public attention for political and social reforms through a story.
                    Utopian novels abounded in the period—the decades of the 1870's and
                    1880's witnessed two hundred and fifty titles of economic fiction—and so did
                    reformist schemes presented in earnest treatises. Yet Bellamy eclipsed them all, whether masters of
                    the novel like William Dean Howells or persuasive reformers like Henry George and the widely read
                    Marxist Laurence Gronlund. Miss Bowman's biography makes clear that Looking
                        Backward was no fluke, but the climactic work of a skilled craftsman and a mind sensitively
                    attuned to the currents of the Gilded Age. Giving attention to his neglected early fiction, which
                    won Bellamy entry into the popular periodicals of his day, Miss Bowman presents the evidence for his
                    professional skill with words and his bold handling of ideas. A medley of intellectual traditions,
                    often seemingly incompatible, runs through his writings. Overtones of Transcendentalism appear in
                    his concepts of the "impersonal" and the "religion of
                    solidarity," which will unite individuals in a selfless community of universal souls.
                    Comtean positivism also fascinates him and accounts for his expertness with technology in Looking Backward, Social Darwinism gives an evolutionary hue to his political
                    prophecies, though with a humanitarian twist.
            If Bellamy's thought was not profound, it was wide-ranging and plausible, and often daring.
                    His major novel omits the concern he  expressed elsewhere for
                    race-breeding or "stirpiculture." He advocated creative use of leisure in much the
                    same way David Riesman does today; recognizing the futility of housework, he suggested domestic
                    reforms such as paper furniture and paper clothing—which the Japanese have successfully
                    adopted. His forecast of the corporate nation is already partially realized in the modern figure of
                    the organization man. Looking Backward combines the appeals of science fiction,
                    pragmatic reformism, and moral idealism in a thoroughly American blend. That brew is the magic
                    formula of Bellamy's novel, which he wrote to arouse the masses against social and economic
                    evils, and to acquaint them with the latest intellectual solutions. So did Tom Paine use the
                    literary instrument of the eighteenth century, the essay, to reach his public for similar ends.
            Miss Bowman's richly documented biography makes its point by stimulating our thinking about
                    Bellamy. She presents his history unobtrusively, with a minimum of personal comment, and with
                    compact and efficient arrangement. If the later chapters paraphrase Looking
                    Backward and its sequel, Equality, at some length, they display the logic and
                    breadth of Bellamy's American socialism. The present biography lacks treatment of the clash
                    of ideas and personalities between Bellamy and his contemporary reformers, which Morgan outlined;
                    but the author promises to continue the story of Bellamy's influence in a later volume.
            
               Indiana University Richard M. Dorson
         
         
            
               A History of 
                            Chicago
                        . Volume III, The Rise of a Modern City,
                    1871–1893. By Bessie Louise Pierce. (
                        New York
                    : Alfred A. Knopf, 1957. Pp. xii, 575. Illustrations, maps, appendix, bibliography, and
                    index. $8.50.)
            The monumental History of 
                            Chicago
                        
                on which Professor Bessie Pierce has been engaged for many years is too well
                    known to require special introduction. The present volume, and third to appear, closely parallels
                    Volume X of the original History of American Life series, Arthur M.
                    Schlesinger's twenty-five-year-old Rise of the City,
                    1878–1898, in time span, organization, and even title. It begins with the 
                        Chicago
                     fire, and closes with the Columbian Exposition, events of much importance for both city
                    and nation.
            The great theme of those years was economic growth, and appropriately enough Professor Pierce devotes
                    more than half her pages to describing the rise of the Windy City's basic industrial and
                    commercial enterprises, together with the labor reaction to this phenomenon. It is interesting to
                    contrast her account of labor with Professor Charles Sanford's statement in a recent issue
                    of the Journal of Economic History that "the worst horrors of the
                    industrial revolution in 
                        England
                     were avoided here." If Sanford is right, then someone should have informed the 
                        Chicago
                     workmen of it. Another two chapters treat municipal politics, almost a collateral
                    activity of business during this period. The remaining quarter of the book surveys social and
                    cultural factors like education, the arts, leisure-use, religion and humanitarianism.
            
            
               
                        Chicago
                     is fortunate as beneficiary of so vast an historical project, and 
                        New York
                     may well be envious. Nevertheless the value of this history is reduced by certain
                    procedures which to this reviewer seem unfortunate. For example, Professor Pierce has made a
                    conscious and successful effort "to focus attention upon group life rather than upon
                    individuals" (p. ix). However sound in theory, unhappily this emphasis has caused her tale
                    to lose most of its color and larger meaning. Her account of the Great Fire gives the impression of
                    a minor inconvenience easily overcome, not a threat to the city's very life. One searches
                    in vain for the drama in the 
                        Chicago
                     Exposition, so readily available in the pages of Condit and Giedion. Professor
                    Pierce's work seems a digest of contemporary description from the press of the day;
                    interpretation, the lifeblood of history, is missing.
            One can see national trends reflected in 
                        Chicago
                    , but not the ways in which 
                        Chicago
                     was reflected in national thought and action—the outside impact of the Fire,
                    the Exposition, Haymarket, the skyscraper. Opportunities are missed. For example, those interested
                    in urban Progressivism will find only a few references to the Citizens' Association and the
                    Commercial Club, despite their crucial role in civic uplift and changed attitudes toward the role of
                    government. And in view of the paucity of achievement in cultural life which Miss Pierce describes,
                    one must doubt her statement that 1893 saw a mature city, second in leadership only to 
                        New York
                    . In population and market hinterland alone had 
                        Chicago
                     surpassed 
                        Boston
                     and 
                        Philadelphia
                     by that date.
            It is probably unfair to criticize Professor Pierce for what she does not do. Her volumes may well
                    mark the close of an era of modern urban case studies, well discussed by Bayrd Still and Blake
                    McKelvey in recent articles. But now we badly need to direct our attention to the wider meaning of
                    all this. An urban interpretation of later American history still lies ahead of us.
            
               Teachers College 
                            Columbia
                         University Frederick D. Kershner, Jr.
         
         
            
               The Era of Theodore Roosevelt, 1900–1912, By George E. Mowry. The New American Nation Series. Edited by Henry Steele Commager and Richard B.
                    Morris. (
                        New York
                    : Harper & Brothers, 1958. Pp. xvi, 330. Illustrations, bibliography, index.
                    $5.00.)
            Every thoughtful student of American history is indebted to George Mowry for this admirable summary
                    of the opening years of the twentieth century. The Era of Theodore Roosevelt is
                    not a biography of the Rough Rider any more than The Age of 
                            Jackson
                        
               , by Arthur Schlesinger, Jr., is a biography of Old Hickory. But Colonel
                    Roosevelt, as vice-president, president, or ex-president, is the central figure of this volume as he
                    was of the era which bears his name.
            Professor Mowry, a member of the faculty of the University of California at 
                        Los Angeles
                    , has devoted years of research to the Progressive movement and has previously published
                    two books on the subject. The Era of Theodore Roosevelt is soundly based on
                    Mowry's knowledge  of the manuscript sources as well as
                    of the constantly increasing volume of published material. This book is well-organized and
                    well-balanced. The footnotes are adequate and are placed at the bottom of the pages—where
                    footnotes belong. Mowry's style is readable. Such ambiguous phrasing as "months
                    before the presidential election of 1904, the 
                        United States
                     was deeply involved in the Russo-Japanese War…." (p. 181) is rarely
                    found.
            Although not so indicated by editorial or printer's device, the fourteen chapters fall
                    naturally into three parts. The first five chapters depict the 
                        United States
                     as it was when the new century opened—the economic conditions, the people,
                    the cities and states, the intellectual currents, the new problems of industrialism and
                    imperialism—in short the stage-setting for the drama of the Progressive movement. The
                    second group of chapters, six in number, deal with Roosevelt's presidency. The final three
                    describe the Taft administration, insurgency, and the temporary disintegration of the Republican
                    party. Much space is properly devoted to domestic politics, but foreign affairs are by no means
                    neglected.
            Inevitably the necessity for brevity to meet publication requirements for a book of this nature
                    increases the danger of over-simplifying complex problems. On the whole Professor Mowry has avoided
                    this pitfall, and the book is relatively free of errors as well. The discussion of the Hepburn Act,
                    however, seems inadequate in view of the significance of that act. The "Iowa Idea"
                    was not proposed by Governor Cummins, and the implication that the "Iowa Idea" was
                    simply a proposal "that all tariff protection be abolished on trust-made products"
                    (p. 127) is an unfortunate distortion. This reviewer, at least, disputes the accuracy of the
                    generalization which includes Senator J. P. Dolliver among those progressives who were
                    "extremely parochial in their outlook" (p. 244).
            Mowry's treatment of controversial issues and personalities is moderate and judicious. His
                    accounts of the anthracite coal strike of 1902 and of the celebrated Pinchot-Ballinger affair are
                    noteworthy examples. He characterizes Theodore Roosevelt as a "natural combatant"
                    who was "happiest when testing his powers against those of other men or of the
                    universe" (p. 110), and also as having been "a skillful broker of the possible, a
                    broker between the past and the present, between the interest groups pushing the government one way
                    and then the other, between his own conscience and his opportunities" (p. 114). At his best
                    Roosevelt was "a twentieth-century urban man,….extremely sensitive to the new
                    doctrines abroad in the 
                        United States
                     and the world" (p. 295). By contrast, Robert LaFollette is seen as an agrarian
                    whose goals "were mainly those of the past" (p. 294), and William Howard Taft is
                    described as a man who "had neither the will to return to the past nor the inclination to
                    disturb the present" (p. 294).
            
               The Era of Theodore Roosevelt is an excellent work, well worthy of its place in the
                    distinguished New American Nation Series.
            
            
               Davis and Elkins College Thomas Richard Ross
         
         
         
            
               The Seven Worlds of Theodore Roosevelt. By Edward Wagenknecht. (
                        New York
                    : Longmans, Green & Co., 1958. Pp. xvii, 325. Frontispiece, notes, selected
                    bibliography, index. $6.50.)
            As one stands on the rear platform of a moving train and watches objects take their proper place in
                    the landscape, so forty years after Theodore Roosevelt's career ended Professor Wagenknecht
                    portrays him in the perspective of time. Wagenknecht directs the white light of his extensive
                    research through a prism and features the colorful T.R., not in seven ages, but in seven worlds, in
                    each of which all ages of the man in their many hues are carefully and entertainingly delineated.
                    The following short paragraphs represent less the epitome than the tenor of these seven
                    worlds—the worlds of action, thought, human relations, family, spiritual values, public
                    affairs, and war and peace.
            At the age of twenty-one Roosevelt dedicated himself to the world of action by promising himself to
                    work to the hilt until he was sixty. That promise was kept and when the days of arduous activity
                    were over, he died just two months and ten days beyond that age. Delicate in early life, he played
                    from weakness to strength; had he conserved his body he might have reached the biblical threescore
                    and ten.
            T.R.'s devotion to action did not preclude interest in the world of thought, however, for he
                    was graduated from 
                        Harvard
                    
                    magna cum lande. He read with amazing speed and was able to give a good account of
                    what he read. His breadth of learning served him well as a statesman. Roosevelt also found time to
                    write, and perhaps his best work is The Winning of the West.
            
            In the realm of human relations, Roosevelt buckled on the sword of righteousness and battled for the
                    Lord. Yet "he often saw darkly through a glass of prejudices and passion" (p. 98).
                    In his contests he pulled no punches, but he could not cherish animosities. Even the wounds of 1912
                    healed fairly well.
            Roosevelt was an exemplar in the world encompassed by family. "Edith Carow was the love of
                    his life" (p. 166), and his relationship with their children was such that from early
                    childhood on, his offspring admired him wholeheartedly. He expected his sons to serve in the World
                    War I, but when Quentin fell behind the 
                        German
                     lines, Roosevelt's grief was profound.
            In relation to the world of spiritual values, Roosevelt observed the ordinary conventions. A
                    Protestant and member of the Dutch Reformed Church, he was not narrow and made it a point to have
                    Jews and Catholics in the Cabinet. His nature contained little of the mystic, but much of the
                    pragmatist.
            Roosevelt's attitude toward the world of public affairs moved him to resolve early in life
                    to belong to the governing class. His goal was not merely to follow public opinion but to create it.
                    His idea of jurisprudence was in sharp contrast with that usually held by the legal profession,
                    which is illustrated by his handling of the anthracite coal strike and of the 
                        Brownsville
                     affair. He simply did not understand currency and the tariff, and he did not seem to
                    worry much over his ignorance of them.
            
            As for T.R. and his seventh world, that of war and peace, when he reached the presidency his early
                    jingoism was supplanted by a strong desire for good international relations. The Nobel Peace Prize
                    was awarded him for bringing about the end of the Russo-Japanese War. Contrary to general opinion,
                    he did not publicly advocate 
                        United States
                     intervention in World War I until 
                        Germany
                     announced unrestricted submarine warfare on January 31, 1917.
            The book is singularly free from error, and the style is charming. Nothing important is omitted.
                    There was just so much of Roosevelt that his shortcomings and egotism are overtowered by his
                    greatness. An anti-Roosevelt reader can find support for his opposition; an ardent admirer can find
                    additional proof for his position; an impartial student most probably will believe that Wagenknecht
                    has given him a "Square Deal."
            
               Indiana University Heber P. Walker
         
         
            
               The Army Air Forces in World War II. Edited by Wesley Frank Craven and James Lea
                    Gate. Volume VII, Services Around the World. (
                        Chicago
                    : University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1958. Pp. Hi, 666. Maps, illustrations, notes, glossary, index.
                    $8.50.)
            This, the seventh and concluding volume of The Army Air Forces in World War II,
                    brings together accounts of various world-wide service activities of the Air Forces. The preceding
                    volume, Men and Planes, tells the story of the supporting activities in the
                    continental 
                        United States
                    . Together the two volumes bring to mind those logistical and service activities which
                    have so often been neglected in military history. Even these volumes, however, do not exhibit the
                    integration and the focus necessary to permit analysis of logistical problems as a whole and in
                    relation to combat operations.
            The present volume, following the pattern of its predecessors, is a collection of six monographs. The
                    first, and longest, is an account of the Air Transport Command written by John D. Carter and Frank
                    H. Heck. The authors discuss the important questions of command and control involved in giving
                    effect to the revolutionary idea of a strategic command for air transport. Attempts to include Navy
                    air transport in this world-wide system failed, but the organization was the forerunner of the
                    unified MATS which was formed after the war. Relations with the civilian air lines and with their
                    employees, who were serving under contract alongside military personnel doing the same jobs under
                    less favorable circumstances, were a source of friction, but their cooperation was essential. The
                    ATC grew to a force of 200,000 officers and men, with 3,700 aircraft. In the month of July, 1945, it
                    carried 275,000 passengers and 100,000 tons of cargo. Operations included service to the Middle
                    East, North Africa, across the North Atlantic, northwest to 
                        Alaska
                    , across the Pacific, and over the "Hump" to 
                        China
                    .
            The second part of the book, by John E. Fagg, is the story of the aviation engineers—the
                    men whose job it was to prepare and keep in repair airfields and other air installations. A special
                    group of engineers was organized into air-borne battalions intended to drop by parachute  with light equipment and prepare advance fields for the support of
                    air-borne operations, but their actual use never justified the effort spent.
            Jonas A. Jonasson is the author of chapters on the AAF Weather Service and the Army Airways
                    Communications System. Chapters on medicine, morale, and air-sea rescue are written respectively by
                    George V. LeRoy, Martin R. R. Goldman, and Jonasson. With good reason, flight surgeons and air
                    commanders stressed the medical and morale problems peculiar to air combat. These problems pertained
                    especially to the physiological effects of flying at high altitudes and to psychological effects of
                    combat flying. Still the problems of stress and of the effects of high casualty rates were not
                    peculiar to the Air Corps. In some ways they were of greater significance in infantry and armor
                    combat, where there was no hope of rotation and reassignment to the States after an allotted number
                    of missions. And when one reads of the envy with which airmen regarded the Navy on seeing how
                    sailors were living the "more abundant life," he may be moved to think that Air
                    Force morale might have been boosted by more intimate contact of its personnel with the infantrymen
                    and their austere existence.
            The concluding chapters give an account of women in the AAF—the air WAC's, the
                    flight nurses, and the civilian auxiliary, Women Air Force Service Pilots (WASP) representing a
                    merger of the WAFS (Women's Auxiliary Ferrying Squadron) and the Women's Flying
                    Training Detachment—by Kathleen Williams Boom, and a resume of the complex problems of
                    redeployment and demobilization by Chauncey E. Sanders, formerly of Indiana University.
            Two types of problems reappear throughout the volume—the matter of obtaining the necessary
                    equipment and of training the men needed for these technical services and, secondly, the matter of
                    organization and control. Sometimes it seems that struggles really aiming at an independent air
                    force were allowed to dominate war activity to the detriment of objectives at hand. The theme,
                    "Unity of Command," always is stressed to justify vertical expansion of air force
                    commands and for maintaining control of organizations across theater lines or in areas reserved to
                    other services. But the principle of unity of command is ignored when it means control of air force
                    units by the Ground Forces or the Service Forces. Thus there were continuous efforts to divorce the
                    aviation engineers from the Corps of Engineers, and there was a long struggle for an independent
                    (i.e. from the Army Surgeon General) medical service for the Air Forces, which was even to include
                    control of general hospitals where presumably physicians would be more in sympathy with ideas of air
                    power.
            Interpretations and conclusions in this history generally reflect an Air Forces point of view, but
                    they appear to have been arrived at honestly and without any compulsion or censorship. The
                    editors' Foreword, as in all the volumes, gives an excellent survey of the material covered
                    in the separate monographs. Indeed a valuable short history of the AAF might be formed by bringing
                    together in a single small volume the forewords from the seven volumes. On the conclusion of this
                    massive historical project, congratulations are due the editors,  Air Force Historian Albert F. Simpson, and the USAF Historical Division for a job well done and
                    an invaluable contribution to the history of World War II and to the military history of the 
                        United States
                    .
            
               Purdue University James A. Huston
         
         
            
               White House Images & Realities. By Holman 
                        Hamilton
                    . (
                        Gainesville
                    : University of Florida Press, 1958. Pp. xi, 98. Bibliography, index. $3.50.)
            This brief volume includes three addresses which Professor Holman 
                        Hamilton
                     gave at the University of Florida in 1958 as the university's second speaker
                    in its recently established lecture series on American civilization. In his talks 
                        Hamilton
                     considered: "Roads to the White House," "Greatness and
                    Failure," and "The Presidential Image." A wealth of interesting
                    information is packed into these lectures.
            Very likely Professor 
                        Hamilton
                     here endeavored to reach principally undergraduates and nonspecialists in American
                    history. In his two volumes on Zachary Taylor, as well as through his continued research and writing
                    regarding the Compromise of 1850, he has earned his spurs as a professional historian able to fend
                    for himself. His White House Images & Realities blends his skill as a
                    professional historian with some of the lessons in writing for the general public which he
                    doubtlessly learned earlier as an editorial writer on the 
                        Fort Wayne
                    
                    Journal-Gazette.
            
            
               
                        Hamilton
                     offers much detail regarding the varied roads which men have traveled to the White
                    House. He regards Lincoln, Washington, Franklin D. Roosevelt, Wilson, and Jefferson as among the
                    great presidents, while Harding and Grant are evaluated as the weakest of them all. 
                        Hamilton
                     is especially fond of Old Hickory and also of FDR. But even 
                        Hamilton
                    's great have feet of clay, while his weak receive some commendation. Perhaps
                    Grant and Harding were given D's rather than F's much as numerous undergraduates
                    receive D's when they deserve F's. 
                        Hamilton
                     reserves his A's for the presidents who in his opinion have been effective and
                    forceful leaders in meeting the issues and requirements of their times. The question of the extent
                    to which such greatness depends upon intrinsic qualities and abilities versus the question of the
                    extent to which it involves the accidents of time and place is a problem which, though touched upon
                    now and then, is perhaps wisely left for continued seminar study.
            Professor 
                        Hamilton
                    , both within and between the lines, indicates concern over the lack of decisive
                    presidental leadership, including the lack of personal vigor and command, on the part of President
                    Eisenhower. He considers this shortcoming most serious at a time when the future of the country, and
                    even of civilization itself, seems to be almost literally at stake. 
                        Hamilton
                    , however, would grant that there are pros and cons to his appraisal of current
                    leadership, and American patriot that he is, he obviously hopes that its ultimate results are far
                    superior to what he fears they might be in certain emergency situations.
            
            Although professional historians will find this concise volume provocative, perhaps it will be even
                    more so to undergraduates and general readers. Newspaper and magazine writers and editors wanting
                    good background copy regarding American presidents and presidential politics can reap a good harvest
                    from White House Images & Realities.
            
            
               Indiana University Donald F. Carmony
         
         
            
               Economic Regulation of the Motor Trucking Industry by the States. By Donald V.
                    Harper. Illinois Studies in the Social Sciences, Volume 43. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of Illinois Press, 1959. Table of cases cited, bibliography, index.
                    Paperbound, $4.00; cloth, $5.00.)
            This recent volume of the Illinois Studies in the Social Sciences series attempts
                    to fill the gap in research concerning the economic regulation of the motor trucking industry. The
                    objective of the study as stated by the author is to describe and compare policies practiced by the
                    states in the regulation of the for-hire trucking business. A related goal is comparison of state
                    regulation of the industry with regulation at the federal level.
            Harper develops his subject matter under six broad headings: characteristics of motor trucking,
                    development of state economic regulation of motor truck transportation, the scope of regulatory
                    authority, control over entry into the motor trucking field, regulation of motor truck rates, and
                    control of motor truck service and leasing equipment. The early sections concerning the
                    characteristics of the industry, the conditions which gave rise to regulation, and the development
                    of state regulation are well-written and soundly annotated.
            For the substance of his book, the author chose to conduct a study of the regulatory policies of a
                    core group of seven selected states (
                  California, Illinois, New York,
                            Ohio, Pennsylvania, Washington
               , and 
                        Wisconsin
                    ). General treatment, however, is also given to the administrative statutes of other
                    regulating states. Harper's venture into discussion of states other than those of immediate
                    concern to the study is, perhaps, one of the minor defects of his volume. For example, a detailed
                    comparison of regulatory policies under four statutes and seven separate categories in California
                    with the various policies of the six remaining core states contributes enough confusing detail
                    without including an examination of the policies of still other regulating states as well. Moreover,
                    the treatment of the secondary states presents the reader with an unclassified listing of the
                    statutes and decisions which has no apparent overall purpose.
            Harper's survey of state control over entry into the for-hire trucking field and his study
                    of methods used by selected states for regulation of motor truck rates and service provide a good
                    analysis of the problems and policies of state control over the industry. Suitable charts set forth
                    the economic characteristics of the growth of state regulation.
            The thirty-three pages of "Summary and Conclusions" appear almost as a separate
                    study or a "boiled down" version of the volume. There is a great amount of
                    repetition and reiteration. Paragraphs on  pages 149 and 150,
                    for example, are restated verbatim on pages 266 and 267; the material on page 185 is repeated on
                    page 268. Other illustrations can be cited. While repetition and review may be valuable for memory
                    training and retention, its validity in a monograph of this type is questionable. These pages could
                    have been more profitably utilized by the author in a comprehensive evaluation of the rationale of
                    state regulation. A discussion of the results of economic regulation of motor trucking is confined
                    to one page (p. 271).
            The book is especially useful for its treatment of the relationship between federal and state
                    motor-carrier regulation. There is, however, no discussion of the constitutional aspects of
                    regulation or of cases before the Supreme Court of the 
                        United States
                     which delineated the boundaries between intrastate and interstate commerce and led to
                    the enactment of the Motor Carrier Act of 1935.
            Harper has collected and analyzed recent material concerning state policies in the economic
                    regulation of the motor trucking industry. The volume contains information not available elsewhere,
                    and therefore fills, in part, the gap in scholarship pertaining to economic regulation by the states
                    of an important segment of the American economy.
            
               Indiana University Earl D. Bragdon
         
         
            
               A Selective Bibliography of Important Books, Pamphlets, and Broadsides Relating to
                        Michigan History. By Albert Harry Greenly. (Lunenburg, Vt.: Stinehour Press, 1958. Pp.
                    xvii, 165. Illustrations, index. $25.00.)
            Mr. Greenly's bibliography, to quote Howard Peckham's comment in the Introduction,
                    is "a rarity among bibliographies: it can be read." Beginning appropriately with
                    Samuel Champlain's Des Savvages and closing with Louis C.
                    Karpinski's invaluable Bibliography of the Printed Maps of 
                            Michigan
                        , 1804–1880, this selected bibliography has one hundred and
                    twenty-five numbered entries. Some entries, however, list several items, while in other instances
                    more than one edition is described. The arrangement is generally chronological and the listings are
                    mainly of books published before or during 
                        Michigan
                    's pioneer period.
            Though not intended to be all-inclusive, Greenly's bibliography lists important books
                    regarding exploration and discovery, Indian wars, accounts of English and other travelers,
                    narratives of Indian captivity, laws and codes of law, the War of 1812, 
                        Detroit
                     and other cities, Indian life, early history, science and mineral resources, pine
                    forests, the automobile industry, etc. Often Greenly tells something of how the books came to be
                    written, their general content and viewpoint, their reliability or lack of it, where books (if rare)
                    are preserved, and miscellaneous comments which have as much variety and as many choice morsels as
                    the best of Smorgasbord feasts. Full-page reproductions of title pages of various volumes add useful
                    information and greatly increase the pleasure of reading this bibliography.
            Greenly himself notes (p. 79) that early printing in Michigan is covered in Douglas C.
                    McMurtrie's Early Printing in 
                            Michigan
                        , with a Bibliography of the Issues of the Michigan Press, 1796–1850
                    (1931).  Then came American Imprints Inventory No.
                        52. Preliminary Check List of Michigan Imprints, 1796–1850, published under the
                    sponsorship of the Works Projects Administration of the federal government (1942). He also notes (p.
                    118) that there have been several histories of 
                        Michigan
                    , including multivolume histories in 1906 and 1939.
            But this bibliography's value is not limited to the geographical area indicated in its
                    title. Greenly has included significant books pertaining to the historical development of 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, 
                        Illinois
                    , and Wisconsin in particular, while students of Canadian history or that of the Middle
                    West will likewise find items of value. Although for the scholar there is no truly satisfactory
                    substitute for actually seeing and reading from the important books of the past, Greenly's
                    new bibliography is one of the most rewarding aids and guides available. Some one—or
                    perhaps some group of historians—should do for the Old Northwest something similar to
                    what Greenly has done in his labor of love for 
                        Michigan
                    .
            
               Indiana University Donald F. Carmony
         
         
            
               Sugar Creek Saga: A History and Development of 
                            Montgomery County
                        . Compiled and edited by Ted Gronert. (
                        Crawfordsville
                    , Ind.: Wabash College, 1958. Pp. xiii, 496. Illustrations, index. $6.00.)
            The need for good county histories has long been recognized by the professional historian and layman
                    alike. Too often the writing of such histories has been left to the local historian who, though long
                    in zeal and inspiration, is short in professional qualifications. Fortunately such is not the case
                    with this volume, for the author has zealously applied professional ability and literary skill to
                    what appears to be an inspired undertaking. He presents an accurate and readable history of 
                        Montgomery County
                    , Indiana.
            Few cities in the Hoosier state can boost of as many illustrious sons and daughters as can 
                        Crawfordsville
                    . Within the past century this city has contributed more than her share of prominent
                    political, educational, and literary figures, many of whom have achieved national and international
                    recognition. The unique historical and cultural position of 
                        Crawfordsville
                     is accentuated by the fact that during her pioneer period her leaders founded Wabash
                    College, one of the better known liberal arts colleges in the 
                        United States
                     today.
            Any attempt to write a history of a county which contains a city such as 
                        Crawfordsville
                     and its educational adjunct, Wabash College, involves the difficult problem of how to
                    achieve a balanced presentation. Although space devoted to the history of Union Township, in which
                    the city of 
                        Crawfordsville
                     is situated, is naturally much greater than the space allotted to other areas of the
                    county, the author judiciously includes available and pertinent facts on the other townships,
                    particularly in the treatment he accords the pioneer period.
            Unfortunately, Mr. Gronert has not used the conventional devices of footnotes and bibliography. While
                    he states in the Preface the general location of source materials, and while citations for the
                    numerous quotations are inserted in the text itself, a more specific  form of documentation would be of greater value to the discriminating
                    reader.
            Notwithstanding the inclusion of many proper names which is inherent in a work of this type, the
                    reader's interest is sustained by the author's sprightly style. The illustrations
                    are simple in design and few in number, but appropriate. Mention should also be made of the workable
                    index which makes the information contained in this volume readily accessible. The public in general
                    and the residents of 
                        Montgomery County
                     in particular will find this a highly interesting and useful work.
            
               Ball State Teachers College R. H. Caldemeyer
         
         
            
               The Miami Years, 1809–1959. By Walter Havighurst. (
                        New York
                    : G. P. Putnam's Sons, 1958. Pp. 254. Illustrations. $4.50.)
            Miami University at 
                        Oxford
                     was chartered in 1809 by the Ohio state legislature, which set aside for its support a
                    township of land on the west side of the Miami River about forty miles northwest of 
                        Cincinnati
                    . For fifteen years following its incorporation, the school wrestled with the not
                    uncommon problems of shortages of funds and "scholars," fought off an attempt by 
                        Cincinnati
                     to relocate it (in 
                        Cincinnati
                    ), operated a grammar school, and in the meantime, accumulated from its land leases and
                    rents enough capital to construct a three-story brick building. In 1824 the college opened and in
                    the next half-century graduated nearly 1,000 students, establishing a respected place for itself
                    among western colleges. Its faculty and alumni have included, to name the best-known of them,
                    William Holmes McGuffey, John Shaw Billings, Benjamin Harrison, and Whitelaw Reid.
            In 1873 financial troubles compelled "Old Miami" to suspend operations, and not
                    until 1885 was it possible for the school to reopen with the help of a $20,000 grant from
                    the Ohio legislature. Since 1885, "New Miami" has weathered coeducation,
                    curriculum expansion, and two World Wars, while increasing its enrollment from forty to roughly six
                    thousand.
            In The Miami Years, 1809–1959, Walter Havighurst, who is Research
                    Professor of English at Miami, has converted these "bare bones" of Miami
                    University's history into a highly readable survey of the evolution of certain phases of
                    American higher education. His book reveals a detailed knowledge of the physical growth of Miami
                    University and of the personal careers of its faculty and students, and its most rewarding chapters
                    are those in which these two factors are considered. Sixteen pages of well-chosen drawings and
                    photographs complement the text.
            A perhaps unavoidable weakness of The Miami Years lies in the fact that much of it
                    is intelligible and significant only to Miami faculty and students, past and present. The
                    author's tendency to lapse into a kind of parochialism frequently leaves one feeling that
                    he is reading a club activities report in a Marquand or O'Hara novel. This characteristic
                    is not a serious problem if the book is aimed only at readers who are initiates of Miami University;
                    it is a decided flaw if  the volume is intended for general
                    consumption. Only slightly less troublesome is Professor Havighurst's fondness for
                    alliteration: "pale, precise James 
                        Madison
                    …. Lean, lined Benjamin Whiteman…. Big, bald, and beaming William
                    Oxley Thompson…rough, rawboned men" (pp. 12, 16, 168). Alliteration is, of
                    course, a perfectly sound literary tool, but it is also one of those most easily blunted, as Time magazine has proven empirically in the past generation. To find the device
                    overworked in a book such as this is distracting. Stylistic factors notwithstanding, The Miami Years is a case study which should attract readers who have an interest in the
                    Old Northwest's social history in general, and its intellectual history in particular.
            
               Indiana University Robert Constantino
         
         
            
               Great American Automobiles: A Dramatic Account of Their Achievements in
                    Competition. By John Bentley. (Englewood Cliffs, N. J.: Prentice-Hall, Inc., 1957. Pp. x, 374.
                    Illustrations, index. $7.50.)
            Hoosiers, more than most Americans, have a nostalgic interest in early automobiles. For if any
                    particular locality can claim to be the birthplace of the automobile, it is Indiana and more
                    particularly 
                        Indianapolis
                    . It was there that the Marmon, Stutz, the great "Cole-8," the
                    fabulous Deusenberg, and others first saw the light of day, rose to the heights of acclaim, and then
                    one by one fell under the impact of 
                        Detroit
                    's mass-produced Fords, Chevrolets, Chryslers, and the rest.
            Booth Tarkington, in The Magnificent Ambersons, tells the story of the early
                    influence of the fledgling automobile industry upon the social and economic life of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . But it was on the race courses of the world, as well as in the hill climbs, Glidden
                    Tours, rallies and fairs across the country that the national and international reputations of the
                    great automobiles were established. It is the intimate story of the accomplishments—and
                    failures—of a few of them that John Bentley describes in fascinating detail in Great American Automobiles. Internationally recognized as a leading automobile
                    journalist in the 
                        United States
                    , and himself a distinguished driver, Bentley is eminently qualified to tell this story.
            Of the cars which figure in his account are found such famous names as Winton Bullet, Peerless Green
                    Dragon, Thomas Flyer, Maxwell (shades of Jack Benny!), Reo, White, Rambler, Marmon Wasp, Apperson, 
                        Jordan
                     Playboy, Deusenberg, Stutz Bearcat, 
                        Auburn
                     Speedster, Cord, and Stanley Teakettle! The 1903 Gordon Bennett Cup, the 1904 Diamond
                    Cup, the Glidden Tours, the 1904 and 1911 Vanderbilt Cups, the 1909 and 1911 races at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the 1903–1919 and 1929 Ormond-Daytona Beach races, and the 1932 Booneville
                    Flats run are some of the events described. And part and parcel of the story, of course, are
                    personalities—Alexander Winton, Barney Oldfield, Jasper Glidden, Ray Harroun, and many
                    others.
            Of special interest to those of a technical turn of mind are the detailed specifications of the cars
                    and split-second competitive results. In addition, the pages of Bentley's book are replete
                    with illustrations, most of them rare originals from private sources. To those who remember  this robust era, and to those of the present generation to whom
                    the names are little more than folklore, the book offers a fascinating excursion into the early
                    history of a vital phase of America's industrial development.
            
               Indiana University J. Edward Hedges
         
         
            
               On the Sunny Side of a One Way Street. William E. Wilson. (
                        New York
                    : W. W. Norton & Co., 1958. Pp. 223. $3.75.)
            There are many ways to write history. One good way is by the personal narrative of past experience,
                    in which the representative aspects of a place and a time are recorded as one person saw, felt, and
                    lived them. When this way of recreating the past is characterized by judicious organization and
                    sensitive selection, and yet retains the informality and spontaneity of a person-to-person
                    communication, it can be very good indeed.
            Such is the achievement of William E. Wilson in On the Sunny Side of a One Way
                    Street. The scene recreated here is that of 
                        Evansville
                    , Indiana, the time recaptured that of some fifty years ago, the experience relived that
                    of a boy growing up in a beautifully genuine and representative American family. The tone of the
                    book is nostalgic, but emphatically not sentimental. The events narrated are those related to
                    school, jobs, movies, playmates, family trips to 
                        New Harmony
                    , to 
                        Kentucky
                    , to 
                        Michigan
                    .
            The basic virtue of this book is stylistic—a perfect accuracy of word and phase which
                    carries with its precision a warmth of amused perception: "When I returned to school for
                    the afternoon session, there was a strange excitement in the Third Grade. Everyone—even
                    the teacher—treated me with that mixture of curiosity and respect with which pupils were
                    treated the first day in school after an attack of measles or a death in the family" (p.
                    133). The hack in which the family rode on visits to 
                        New Harmony
                     "was a long, tunnel-like affair with benches on each side upholstered in
                    purple plush. As we rolled down Church Street between rows of maples and golden raintrees, the loose
                    windows rattled merrily and the wheels made music on the gravel. The hack smelled of leather, oats,
                    and the sweat of horses. My mother always held her nose, but I thought the mixture was delicious and
                    inhaled deeply" (p. 90).
            Fidelity to the boy's point of view is another virtue in this work. Though the added
                    dimension of adult comprehension is always shared by writer and reader, the experience as such is
                    strictly the boy's. When his typewritten neighborhood newspaper announced that
                    "Mrs. Arnold Miller, Sr., was going to 
                        Indianapolis
                     on Monday to have her hair dyed," and the incident was followed with a visit
                    by Mr. Miller to his father, the boy was utterly puzzled by what ensued: 
                        I was sure I was going to get a licking. Father had that look in his eye….
                            Instead, he launched into a vague and puzzling lecture on the laws of libel and slander. The
                            sanctity of American womanhood got into it too, somehow. By that  time, I had begun to think there was something wrong with him.
                        There was. All of a sudden, his face turned red and he began to choke and, without another
                            word, he grabbed his hat from the hall-tree and left the house. I never did find out what it
                            was all about [pp. 183–184].
                    
            
            In its creation of characters, setting, and meaningful experience, On the Sunny Side of
                        a One Way Street has the quality and value of a fine novel. I shall read it again, more
                    than once; and I recommend it warmly to all like myself whose memory reaches the time it brings
                    alive.
            
               University of Notre Dame John T. Frederick
         
         
            
               North Atlantic Triangle: The Interplay of 
                            Canada
                        , the 
                            United States
                        , and Great Britain. Reprint. By John Bartlet Brebner. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Columbia
                     University Press, 1958. Pp. xxii, 385. Maps, diagrams, bibliographical notes, index.
                    $7.50.)
            
               
                  
                            Canada
                        : A Political and Social History. Revised and enlarged. By Edgar McInnis. (
                        New York
                    : Rinehart & Co., Inc., 1959. Pp. xvi, 619. Illustrations, maps, select
                    bibliography, appendix, index. $7.00.)
            The absence of war between 
                        Canada
                     and the 
                        United States
                     since 1815, along with the somewhat inaccurate tradition of an unfortified, peaceful
                    border between them since that time, have caused many citizens of the 
                        United States
                     to assume that cordial relations and mutual confidence have typified relations between
                    these two neighbors. Although 
                        Canada
                     and the 
                        United States
                     have avoided war for nearly a century and a half, this period has not been without its
                    misunderstandings over boundaries, fisheries, tariffs, border "invasions," and
                    other irritants. The two volumes reviewed here are extremely helpful in giving a comprehensive view
                    of at least the high lights of Canadian history and also of the long-term interplay between 
                        Canada
                     and the 
                        United States
                    . Moreover, this interplay inevitably involved Britain, making what the late Professor
                    Brebner called the "North Atlantic Triangle."
            Neither of these books is new. Professor Brebner's volume is a reprint of his original
                    edition which appeared in 1945, while that of Professor McInnis is an enlarged and revised edition
                    of a volume which was first published about a decade ago. Both authors have made distinguished
                    contributions to historical writing and both have substantial knowledge and understanding concerning
                    relationships among 
                        Canada
                    , Britain, and the 
                        United States
                    . One many quarrel with their interpretations here and there, but they have produced
                    extremely readable accounts of high caliber. At times perhaps they view their subjects too much in
                    terms of Canadian perspectives, but they also offer abundant evidence that such perspectives have
                    frequently been either too much ignored or taken too much for granted. At any rate, there is
                    something ironic in the emphasis which both authors give to 
                    pointing out how British diplomacy has from time to time, especially since the American Civil War,
                    sold the Canadians short in order to cement relations between Britain and the 
                        United States
                    .
            As indicated in these volumes, interplay between 
                        Canada
                     and the 
                        United States
                     has resulted to large extent from the lack of a natural frontier between them. Though
                    the principal folds of the continent run north and south, the boundary line between them runs east
                    and west. Thus along the Atlantic coast, in the plains and prairies of the west, and again along the
                    Pacific coast, the boundary runs counter to geographical considerations. Moreover, the region around
                    the Great Lakes has always been important to both areas—from the advent of fur traders
                    and missionaries in the seventeenth century to the recent "opening" of the once
                    more "completed" St. Lawrence Seaway. In fact, rivalry between Britain and the 
                        United States
                     in the Old Northwest was one of the leading questions in Anglo-American diplomacy and
                    warfare from 1775 until at least 1815. The pioneers of the Old Northwest early acquired a vigorous
                    hatred of 
                        England
                     as the "old enemy" and doubtless many of them would gladly have
                    fought to have obtained all of 
                        Oregon
                    . The boundary line between 
                        Canada
                     and the 
                        United States
                     was not determined until the late 1840's in large part because it was a
                    settlement which evolved more in response to the interplay among 
                        Canada
                    , Britain, and the 
                        United States
                     than to the development of natural frontiers. Moreover, adjustments in this boundary
                    have been necessary within the last century.
            Brebner's and McInnis' volumes are useful in illustrating and explaining the
                    continuous interplay in the relations among 
                        Canada
                    , Britain, and the 
                        United States
                    , but perhaps they are equally useful in giving the high lights of Canadian history and
                    in adding broader perspective for the viewing of 
                        United States
                     history. For instance, a careful reading of these volumes does much to put the
                    participation of 
                        Canada
                     and the 
                        United States
                     in World War I in a more valid perspective than that in which it has often been viewed.
                    Moreover, Canadian contributions in World War I were of such magnitude and her sacrifices so great
                    that Canadians must inevitably feel much slighted in reading most accounts of World War I from the
                    pens of historians within the 
                        United States
                    . Doubtless an increased interplay between historians of 
                        Canada
                     and the 
                        United States
                     would be of significant value within both countries.
            
               Indiana University Donald F. Carmony
         
         
            Publications of the Service Center for Teachers of History, a service of the American Historical
                    Association.
            The American Historical Association has established the Service Center for Teachers of History, which
                    has begun issuing a series of pamphlets designed to assist the secondary school teacher in remaining
                    abreast of developments in his field. Pamphlets in American, European, and even Oriental history are
                    offered. Some of the titles offered are: New Interpretations of American Foreign
                    Policy, by Alexander R. De Conde; New Interpretations of American Colonial
                    History, by Louis B.  Wright; The American
                        Revolution, by Edmund S. Morgan; The American Frontier, by Ray Allen
                    Billington; The Middle West, by Harry R. Stevens; The South in
                        American History, by Otis Singletary; The Nature and Practice of State and
                        Local History, by Philip D. Jordan; Jacksonian Democracy, by Charles
                    Grier Sellers, Jr.; Civil War and Reconstruction, by Hal Bridges; The
                        Progressive Movement, 1900–1920: Recent Ideas and New Literature, by George E.
                    Mowry; Nationalism: Interpreters and Interpretations, by Boyd C. Shafer; History of Science, by Marie Boas; Recent Trends and New Literature
                        in Canadian History, by Robin W. Winks; The Colonial Period in Latin American
                        History, by Charles Gibson; Greek and Roman History, by Mortimer
                    Chambers; The Interpretation of Renaissance Humanism, by William J. Bouwsma; Industrial Revolution: Interpretations and Perspectives, by Eric E. Lampard; The History of 
                            India
                        
               , by Robert I. Crane; Chinese History: A Bibliographic
                    Review, by Charles O. Hucker; and Key to the Past: Some History Books for
                        Pre-College Readers, by Margareta Faissler.
            A representative pamphlet of the series, Civil War and Reconstruction, by Hal
                    Bridges, surveys outstanding works in its field and the contrasting points of view they present,
                    assuming a neutral and critical attitude which is most enlightening to the nonspecialist. It
                    concludes with a comprehensive bibliography which is, however, not annotated. Pamphlets with
                    geographical rather than chronological scope, such as The Middle West, by Harry R.
                    Stevens, offer thorough coverage of significant interpretations of the history of their chosen area
                    by discussing the works of various authors. This particular pamphlet presents its bibliography in
                    the form of footnotes to the text, an effective method for this type of writing. Other pamphlets
                    differ in detail as to form, but comment is of uniformly high quality.
            As the preceding list of pamphlets indicates, many of the most distinguished scholars in the various
                    fields of history have contributed to this series. Each of the booklets, presenting as it does a
                    succinct summary of literature within its scope, dwells upon changing interpretations brought about
                    by continuing research and varying points of view over the years. It is hoped that an important
                    contribution of this series will be to maintain an awareness on the part of the secondary teacher of
                    the true nature of history as a vital, growing subject whose truths progressively unfold as time
                    goes on, contrary to the persistent popular notion that it is merely a part of the dead past and is,
                    therefore, as mummified and unchanging as a petrified forest, needing only to be casually surveyed
                    to be understood. It is to be feared that this latter idea has crept into too many classrooms.
            Valuable assistance will be rendered the secondary school history teacher if these pamphlets can be
                    made to reach him. The problems with which the teacher is forced to contend in the public schools
                    are often ill understood by those in higher education. Unfortunately, the duress of daily routine
                    leaves him little time and energy with which to maintain the scholastic side of his calling and thus
                    improve the quality of his teaching. He will doubtless appreciate the helping hand which is extended
                    to him by the Service Center for Teachers of History if adequate steps are taken to bring such
                    publications as these pamphlets  to his attention. The gap which
                    often exists between the work of the research scholar and that of the average secondary school
                    teacher is one of the most persistent problems of American education, and it is encouraging to see
                    that an organization such as the American Historical Association is working toward closing that gap.
            The price of the Service Center's pamphlets is 50 cents each, but they may be obtained for
                    only 10 cents each in lots of ten or more of particular titles. Copies may be ordered by writing the
                    Service Center for Teachers of History, 400 A Street, S. E., 
                        Washington
                     3, D.C.
            
               Indiana University Gilbert R. Tredway
         
      
      
         
         
         
      
   
