
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 57, Issue 3, pages 185-277. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:57+issue:3+year:1961&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            The Impact of the Civil War on Indiana
            John D. Barnhart⋆
            
            The Civil War was the greatest challenge Indiana's democratic government had met. The war
                    affected all of the citizens of the state, penetrated their vital social relations, and threatened
                    their necessary and cherished organizations. The way the people met that challenge constitutes
                    muchof the history of the war years in Indiana.
            That all patriots yield obedience to the voice of the people when expressed in a constitutional
                    manner and that all citizens unite in preserving the Union and the Constitution was the message of
                    Abraham Lincoln to the people of Indiana as he journeyed from 
                  Springfield, Illinois
               , to 
                        Washington
                    , B.C., for his inauguration as president of the 
                        United States
                    . The next day, February 12, 1861, his fifty-second birthday, he was escorted to the
                    railway station where he entrained for 
                        Cincinnati
                    . Lincoln's 
                        Indianapolis
                     appearance and speech were the subject of favorable comment by the Republican Daily Journal, but the Democratic Daily Sentinel declared him to
                    be a theorist, a dreamer, and an impractical man who lacked the will and purpose to be a leader.1
            
            The attack upon Fort Sumter, April 12, 1861, stunned the people of Indiana and its sister states.2
                    When the news 
                  
                            
                        ⋆ The Indiana Civil War Centennial Commission requested
                                publication of the author's two chapters on the Civil War originally included
                                in John D. Barnhart and Donald F. Carmony, Indiana: From Frontier to
                                    Industrial Commonwealth (4 vols., 
                                    New York
                                , 1954). In preparing the chapters for this purpose they were combined into
                                one, and some revision in style was attempted. The original publication is more
                                extensively footnoted than the one which appears here. Some bibliographical references
                                have been added, however.
                            John D. Barnhart is professor of history at Indiana University. He was editor of the
                                Indiana Magazine of History, 1941–1955, and is at present a member of the
                                magazine's editorial committee.
                        
                  
                     1
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily State Sentinel, February 12, 1861; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, February 12, 1861.
                  
                     2
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, April 13, 1861.
               
                     came over the wires, small groups gathered to discuss the
                    ominous deed. Some were gloomy because of the portent of war. Others were angry because of the
                    insult to the flag and the threat to the unity of the nation of which the flag was the symbol.
            Angry or sad, the people responded immediately. In two mass meetings in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on the evening of the following day, the people promised to defend the government with
                    their lives, fortunes, and sacred honor; and on Sunday, April 14, ministers of various churches gave
                    their sanction to these same loyal sentiments. When President Lincoln and Governor Oliver P. Morton
                    called for troops, volunteers came forward in such numbers that Indiana's quota could have
                    been filled twice.3
            
            
               
                        South Carolina
                     had seceded from the Union on December 20, 1860, and five other states joined her on
                    February 4, 1861, to organize the Confederate 
                        United States
                     of America. Jefferson Davis was elected president, and the raising of one hundred
                    thousand troops was authorized. 
                        Texas
                     soon came into the Confederacy, and after Lincoln's call for soldiers four
                    additional states seceded.
            The border states were in a difficult position, for their people were divided in sentiment, and none
                    relished the prospect of their land becoming a battleground of contending armies. Indianans were
                    particularly concerned about the decision of 
                        Kentucky
                     because it was separated from Indiana only by the Ohio River and
                    citizens of the two states had been friends since frontier days. The decision of 
                        Kentucky
                     might determine how close the fighting would come to Hoosier soil.4
            
            A large number of Indiana citizens were natives of southern states or the children of transplanted
                    southerners. Many of them had relatives or friends among the people of the Confederacy. Former
                    southerners were not so numerous in the northern counties of Indiana, but they were quite numerous
                    in the southern and central counties where the danger of invasion was greater. Richard Thompson, of 
                        Terre Haute
                    , received letters from relatives in the South appealing 
                  
                     3
                            Ibid., April 18-20, 1861.
                  
                     4 Kenneth M. Stampp, "
                                Kentucky
                            's Influence upon Indiana in the Crisis of 1861," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXIX (September, 1943), 263–276.
               
                     to him to try to stop the war.5 But
                    Hoosiers who had been born in the states on the south side of the Ohio River
                    had helped to make Indiana a free state in 1816. They knew from experience some of the injustices
                    involved in slavery, and they did not want them in Indiana. They did not object, however, to this
                    institution in the southern states until efforts to preserve it threatened the unity of the nation.
            War issues tended to divide the people of Indiana, to break the unity of families, to form groups
                    with different ideals, to split political parties into factions, and to prevent representative
                    government from functioning smoothly. A few Hoosiers who were pro-southern were willing to acquiesce
                    in disunion. Jesse D. Bright, whose influence was dominant in the Democratic party for some years
                    before 1860, shared these views. He was expelled from the 
                        United States
                     Senate on February 5, 1862, because he had written a letter to "His
                    Excellency, Jefferson Davis, President of the Confederation,"6 in which
                    he recommended a friend who wished to sell an improved firearm.7 Other Peace
                    Democrats opposed the use of force and insisted that the Union could be preserved by concessions to
                    the South. Included in this faction were Lambdin P. Milligan, John C. Walker, and Horace Heffren,
                    individuals associated with the secret political societies.
            More numerous were the Constitutional Union men who wanted to preserve the Union and therefore
                    supported the war, but who opposed such measures as the tariff and the National Banking Act. Many of
                    these Union men were willing to offer some concessions to prevent a war or to bring an early peace.
                    When they realized that the destruction of the Union might leave Indiana a part of an interior
                    nation—without 
                  
                     5 U.S., Bureau of the Census, Eighth Census of the 
                                    United States
                                : 1860, Population; Elfrieda Lang, "Immigration to Northern
                            Indiana, 1800–1850" (Ph.D. dissertation, Dept. of History, Indiana
                            University, 1950); Charles Roll, Colonel Dick Thompson: The Persistent Whig
                                (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XXX; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Ind., 1948), 1-35.
                  
                     6
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily State Sentinel, August 20, 1861. It is very difficult to classify
                            Bright accurately. He favored negotiation, but that seemed a broken reed. He also opposed
                            the use of force. His was a peculiar type of loyalty, if it were loyalty. Wayne J. Van Der
                            Weele, "Jesse David Bright: Master Politician from the Old Northwest"
                            (Ph.D. dissertation, Dept. of History, Indiana University, 1958), 266.
                  
                     7
                            Ibid.; Kenneth M. Stampp, Indiana Politics during the Civil
                                War (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XXXI; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Ind., 1949), 97–98, et passim.
                  
               
                     free access to the sea and with her trade subject to taxes
                    imposed by a southern or eastern confederacy—their nationalism increased perceptibly.
                    Nevertheless they declared that they were unwilling to fight an abolition war.
            A few War Democrats openly supported the state and national administrations and joined with the
                    Republicans in forming the Union party. Among the War Democrats were former Governor Joseph A.
                    Wright, James Hughes, of Bloom-ington, Lew Wallace, and Allen 
                        Hamilton
                    .8
            
            The firing on Fort Sumter not only started the Civil War but made it necessary for Indiana Democrats
                    to readjust themselves rather quickly. They had recently been engaged in state and national
                    political campaigns with considerable intensity and had continued their criticism of and hostility
                    toward the Lincoln and Morton administrations. After April 12, vigorous hostility began to assume
                    the aspects of disloyalty, which the Republicans were quick to turn to their advantage. Such action
                    only increased the anger of the Democrats and made their protests more vigorous. Although the
                    remarks of the Democrats were often tactless, the Republicans did not prefer charges in a civil
                    court against them, much less secure a conviction in a criminal court against anyone.
            The war not only embarrassed Democrats, but it also divided Republicans. The latter differed about
                    the concessions they would make to avoid war, but the real division came later in respect to the
                    Emancipation Proclamation. Was the preservation of the Union the sole purpose of the war? At the
                    beginning the answer was almost always in the affirmative. A few Republicans, however, like George
                    W. Julian, "had no love for a proslavery Union." He regarded liberty as more
                    desirable than the Union. Radicals of this type demanded that no concessions should be made to the
                    South and that force should be used to preserve the Union. Very shortly they were insisting that
                    slavery should be destroyed. Julian said on January 14, 1862, that 
                        "the disturbing element has uniformly been slavery. This is the unclean spirit that
                            from the beginning has needed exorcism…."
                        "This rebellion is a bloody and frightful demonstration… that slavery and
                            freedom cannot dwell together in peace…. I believe the 
                        
                           8 James A. Woodburn, "Party Politics in Indiana
                                    during the Civil War," Annual Report of the American
                                        Historical Association for the Year 1902 (2 vols., 
                                        Washington
                                    , D.C., 1903), I, 223–251.
                     
                             popular demand now is, or soon will be, the total
                            extirpation of slavery as the righteous purpose of the war and the only means of a lasting
                            peace.… Never perhaps in the history of any nation has so grand an opportunity
                            presented itself for serving the interests of humanity and freedom."9
                  
                    
            
            In the naming of his cabinet, Lincoln tried to counteract the division within the party. He chose
                    party leaders who represented different elements and sectional groups in order that he might keep
                    the support of all factions. For secretary of the interior, Lincoln chose Caleb B. Smith, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , who had been a lawyer, a newspaper publisher, and a railroad president. An advocate of
                    internal improvements, Smith was elected to the state house of representatives from 1832 to 1842.
                    From 1843 to 1849 he served Indiana as a member of the national House of Representatives. He was a
                    skilled stump speaker, and his appointment came to him at least in part because of his support of
                    Lincoln in the Republican national convention in 
                        Chicago
                    . His appointment was also a recognition of the important role played by Indiana
                    Republicans in Lincoln's nomination and election. It has also been alleged that the choice
                    resulted from a pre-nomination pledge made by Judge David Davis and Joseph Medill to secure the
                    selection of Lincoln by the 
                        Chicago
                     convention and which Lincoln felt obligated to carry out although it was made without
                    his knowledge. Smith remained in the cabinet for less than two years; his resignation became
                    effective on January 1, 1863.
            Indiana's congressional delegation was divided between seven Republicans and four Democrats.
                    All of the latter were from the vicinity of the Ohio and lower Wabash
                        rivers. William S. Holman, of 
                        Aurora
                    , was a War Democrat who was later better known as the "Watchdog of the
                    Treasury." John Law, of 
                        Evansville
                    , the historian of 
                        Vincennes
                    , was a War Democrat who vigorously opposed emancipation as a war aim. James A. Cravens,
                    of 
                        Washington County
                    , was also a War Democrat. Daniel W. Voorhees, of 
                        Terre Haute
                    , has been called a Constitutional Union Democrat whose sharp tongue led many to
                    consider him a Peace Democrat. "To him abolitionism and secession were equally hateful; and
                    he bewailed 
                  
                     9 Grace Julian Clarke, George W. Julian (Indiana
                                Historical Collections, Vol. XI; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Ind., 1923), 225–230.
               
                     the breaches of the Constitution and the tyranny of the war
                    Government in terms of unmeasured opprobiom."10
            
            The seven Republican members of the national House of Representatives ranged from radicals to
                    moderates. Schuyler Colfax, editor of the 
                        South Bend
                    
                    
                  St. Joseph Valley Register, had been elected to Congress in
                    1854, and was re-elected until he became vice president of the 
                        United States
                     in 1869. He was considered in 1860 for a post in Lincoln's cabinet, but was
                    passed over for Caleb B. Smith. Colfax served as speaker of the House of Representatives from 1863
                    to 1869 and was known as a Radical Republican. George W. Julian, of 
                        Wayne County
                    , already noted as a radical, had been a Free Soil member of Congress from 1849 to 1851
                    and a Free Soil candidate for vice president in 1852. Now he was a Radical Republican deeply
                    interested in the abolition of slavery. Albert S. White, of 
                        Tippecanoe County
                    , was more conservative than Julian but was very energetic in trying to secure adoption
                    of gradual emancipation of slaves and indemnification of their owners. Albert G. Porter, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , had been a Democrat but had joined the new Republican party, which elected him a
                    congressman in 1858 and 1860. After Sumter he favored a vigorous prosecution of the war. William M.
                    Dunn, of 
                        Madison
                    , was elected in 1860 but defeated in 1862. He entered the army and became assistant
                    judge advocate general in 1864.11
            
            Although Oliver P. Morton had been elected lieutenant governor, he became the chief executive on
                    January 16, 1861, when Governor Henry S. Lane resigned to accept a seat in the 
                        United States
                     Senate. Believing that war was inevitable, Morton was foremost in preparing the state
                    to do her part in support of the national administration. After Sumter was fired upon, he appointed
                    Lew Wallace adjutant general, 
                  
                     10
                            Dictionary of American Biography (22 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1928-1958), XIX, 291; Leonard S. Kenworthy, The Tall Sycamore of
                                the 
                                    Wabash
                                : Daniel Wolsey Voorhees (
                                Boston
                            , Mass., 1936), 62–63, et passim; I. George Blake,
                                The Holmans of Veraestau (Men of America, Vol. IV;
                                    
                        Oxford, Ohio
                     , 1943), 98–127.
                  
                            
                        11 John P. C. Shanks was elected in 1860 but defeated in 1862. He
                                served in the military forces during the remainder of the war. William Mitchel was also
                                defeated for re-election in 1862. Dunn became judge advocate general in 1875.
                            Willard H. Smith, Schuyler Colfax: The Changing Fortunes of a Political Idol
                                    (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XXXIII; 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , Ind., 1952), 102–209; Clarke, George W.
                                Julian, 85–142, 210–241; Dictionary of American
                                    Biography, XV, 80–81.
                        
               
                     Colonel Thomas A. Morris quartermaster general, and Isaiah
                    Mansur commissary general.12 The state fairground at 
                        Indianapolis
                     was transformed into Camp Morton, where Indiana volunteers were trained, equipped, and
                    organized into regiments.
            The response of the people to the call for troops came quickly and forcefully as has been noted.
                    Within five days the number of volunteers exceeded Indiana's quota. The first six regiments
                    were organized as the Indiana Brigade under Brigadier General Thomas A. Morris, a graduate of West
                    Point. He resigned as quartermaster general and led these first troops into western 
                        Virginia
                    , where they participated with other troops in driving the Confederates out of Philippi
                    in what is present-day West 
                        Virginia
                     on June 3, 1861. This first inland battle of the war prevented the Confederates from
                    seizing the 
                        Baltimore
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     Railroad and was the beginning of General George B. McClellan's campaign in
                    western 
                        Virginia
                    .13
            
            Indiana's geographical position, her large population, and her large crops of agricultural
                    products made her support of the war important. Since the state was located between the Great Lakes
                    and the Ohio River, railroads connected her cities, villages, and farms with
                    Atlantic ports. Other railroads which ran from north to south were prepared to carry troops,
                    supplies, and food to the armies which were soon located in the south central states. Indiana was a
                    part of the great production area for wheat, corn, and hogs. Hoosier farmers raised more hogs than
                    those of any other state and were second in the production of wheat. Only four loyal states had a
                    larger population or more members in the national House of Representatives.14
            
            Most of the state was in the drainage basin of the Ohio River, which with the
                        Mississippi River formed the natural 
                  
                     12 William D. Foulke, Life of Oliver P. Morton (2
                            vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Ind., 1899), I, 101–112; Lewis Wallace, Lew Wallace:
                                An Autobiography (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Ind., 1930), I, 260–269; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            State Sentinel, May 27, 30, June 14, 1861; [Howard R. Burnett] (ed.),
                            "The Fourteenth Indiana Regiment on Cheat Mountain: Letters to the 
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Sun," Indiana Magazine of History, XXIX (December, 1933),
                            350–371.
                  
                     13 McClellan made derogatory remarks about Morris and other officers
                            which Kenneth P. Williams considers unjustified. See Williams' Lincoln
                                Finds a General: A Military Study of the Civil War (5 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1949-1959), I, 106–110.
                  
                     14 U.S., Bureau of the Census, Eighth Census of the 
                                    United States
                                : 1860, Agriculture, cxxiv, xxix; ibid., Population,
                            iv.
               
                     outlet for her surplus products. Although the east-west
                    railroads opened the way to other markets, commerce to 
                        New Orleans
                     had not diminished. Consequently the outcome of secession was of vital importance
                    because it threatened Indiana's most natural route to the markets of the world.
            The state, however, lacked the funds necessary to organize and equip regiments and to send them to
                    the front. Temporarily the need was supplied by private persons and banks, among which was Winslow,
                    Lanier, and Company, of 
                        New York
                    . James F. D. Lanier, formerly a banker of 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana, and a founder and principal stockholder of the Second State Bank of Indiana,
                    was largely responsible for the interest this firm took in Indiana affairs. Although he left the
                    state in 1851, he was much concerned about Indiana's part in the Civil War. His company
                    loaned Governor Morton $420,000 at this time. Since this loan and other actions required
                    legislative approval and cooperation, Morton called a special session of the general assembly which
                    met on April 24.15
            
            The new governor undertook the great task of guiding the state through the war years. He addressed
                    the special session of the legislature with an appeal that politics be forgotten and that all act as
                    patriots. The members of the assembly responded quickly and vigorously, divided legislative offices
                    between the two parties, authorized an issue of $2,000,000 in state bonds for the defense
                    of the state and nation, and appropriated $1,600,000 for military purposes.
            The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Daily Sentinel, which on April 13, hailed the firing on Fort Sumter as the
                    "Abolition War of Seward, Lincoln and Company," and advised on April 15,
                    "Let Them Go in Peace," promised on April 25 that "there will be no
                    factious opposition on the part of the Democratic members." Four days later it urged:
                    "The Legislature of Indiana should promply provide for all the requisitions of the General
                    Government." The ultimate was reached on May 10 when it commented on the possibility of war
                    or peace: "There is now no choice in the matter. The Government must be
                    sustained." It actually used "Webster's Reply to Hayne" against
                    the arguments of the secessionists. The call to action seemed to have 
                  
                     15 James F. D. Lanier, Sketch of the Life of J. F. D.
                                Lanier (
                                New York
                            , 1870), 32; H. Brooklyn Cull, "James F. D. Lanier: Banker,
                            Patriot" (Master's Thesis, Dept. of Hitsory, Indiana University, 1952),
                            56.
               
                     brought unity to Indiana—at least the dissident
                    elements became quiet, but this temporary unity was not to last long.16
            
            Since the markets for many products of southern Indiana had been in the southern states and trade
                    continued after Sumter, the legislature appointed committees to investigate the possibility that aid
                    was being given to the Confederacy by the continuation of trade. Acts were adopted defining treason,
                    prohibiting correspondence and trade with the Confederacy, and providing penalties for violation of
                    these measures. The federal government also intervened to prevent commerce with the enemy.
                    Interference with the normal economic activity of this part of the state resulted in hardships for
                    the people.
            The governor was authorized on May 6, 1861, to organize six additional regiments from the volunteers.
                    They were formed into a brigade under Brigadier General Joseph J. Reynolds, a graduate of West Point
                    who had several years of military experience. The regiments were soon in federal service. To
                    safeguard the immediate defense of the state, a militia was provided under the title
                    "Indiana Legion." Its organization was confined largely to the southern counties,
                    and inevitably much of the burden of local defense fell upon the citizens of this part of the state.
            A debate over the purpose of the nation in waging war also revealed elements of disunity. Both houses
                    of the general assembly adopted resolutions which declared that the men and resources of the state
                    should not be employed to destroy slavery or the constitutional rights of the states. Some of the
                    legislators wanted to add pledges stating that the preservation of the Union was the sole aim of the
                    war, but radicals asserted that only the abolition of slavery would bring permanent peace.
            The first engagement of large forces—the First Battle of Bull Run, or
                    Manassas—took place on July 21, 1861, a few miles southwest of 
                        Washington
                    . The repulse of the Union army dashed the hopes of those who had expected a short war
                    but strengthened the determination of the North to prepare for a serious conflict.17
            
            
               
                  16
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily State Sentinel, April 13, 15, 25, 29, May 10, 20, 1861; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Journal, May 10, 1861.
               
                  17 Williams, Lincoln Finds a General, I,
                        76–102.
            
            
            After this battle federal officials, particularly Secretary of War Simon Cameron, were willing to
                    receive troops more readily. Governor Morton, who had been criticizing the unwillingness of the War
                    Department to call for more soldiers, rushed forward the organization of additional regiments. By
                    the end of the year, 61,341 volunteers had enlisted, a number considerably in excess of
                    Indiana's quota of 38,832.
            
               
                        United States
                     competed with federal officials and with each other for arms, ammunition, uniforms, and
                    other supplies; consequently, they paid high prices and increased the profits of contractors and
                    speculators. The lack of system in purchasing also led to inadequate and inferior supplies.
                    Irregularities brought the state's quartermaster and commissary departments under fire. A
                    legislative investigation revealed adulterated coffee, unsatisfactory clothing, and, from the
                    commissary general's own pork house, inferior meat. The latter official resigned after the
                    Indiana House of Representatives requested his removal for malfeasance and incompetency. Bookkeeping
                    in both departments was chaotic.18
            
            Governor Morton established a state arsenal that produced large quantities of munitions from 1861 to
                    1864 without scandal. Robert Dale Owen, one of Indiana's most able reformers, on May 30,
                    1861, became the agent of the state to purchase arms, a position he filled with honor and
                    distinction. His salary and expenses, which he determined for himself, amounted to $3,452
                    for almost two years of service.19
            
            The year 1862 proved to be a most critical year. Significant military campaigns and battles were
                    fought both in the eastern and western theaters, Indiana Republicans were defeated in the fall
                    elections, and the slavery issue was injected into the war aims. The Emancipation Proclamation
                    produced repercussions among those who wished to bring the war to an early end with the sole issue
                    the preservation of the Union.
            In the East, General McClellan, who had been appointed general-in-chief, led the Army of the Potomac
                    in the Peninsular Campaign. After bloody and costly engagements, including the Battle of Seven Pines
                    on May 31, the Seven Days' Battle, of June 26 to July 1, and instances of
                    over-cautiousness, Lincoln recalled McClellan and brought the 
                  
                     18
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily State Sentinel, May 27, June 8, 1861.
                  
                     19 Richard W. Leopold, Robert Dale Owen: A Biography (
                                    Harvard
                                 Historical Studies, Vol. XLV; 
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1940), 346–349.
               
                     army back to northern 
                        Virginia
                    . The Twentieth Indiana Infantry Regiment was the only Hoosier regiment to participate
                    in all of this campaign, but others were in the Shenandoah Valley and along the
                    Potomac with the troops protecting 
                        Washington
                    . After Lincoln recalled McClellan, he gave the command to General John Pope, who soon
                    lost the Second Battle of Manassas, or Bull Run, August 30, 1862. Four Indiana infantry regiments
                    and one battery of light artillery participated in this engagement.
            General Robert E. Lee, commander of the Confederate forces about 
                        Richmond
                     and at Manassas, took advantage of the confusion which followed the Union defeat by
                    advancing rapidly across the Potomac into 
                        Maryland
                    . McClellan, whom Lincoln again placed in charge of the army around 
                        Washington
                    , met Lee at 
                        Antietam
                    , September 17, and checked his advance. When, however, he permitted Lee to retreat into 
                        Virginia
                     without again attacking him, Lincoln once more relieved McClellan from command.20 Indiana troops that fought at Second Manassas also helped to check Lee at 
                        Antietam
                    .
            General Ambrose E. Burnside, a native of Liberty, Indiana, and a graduate of West Point, was assigned
                    the command of the Army of the Potomac. He suffered a disastrous defeat, December 13, 1862, at
                            
                  Fredericksburg, Virginia
               . Four Indiana regiments were in his army; the
                    Fourteenth was in the opening attack, and the Nineteenth covered his retreat. This engagement ended
                    the year's fighting in the East.
            In the West, the Confederates had not been able to make the Ohio River their
                    northern boundary because of the neutrality of 
                        Kentucky
                    . After General Leonidas Polk, a Confederate, violated that policy by seizing
                            
                  Columbus, Kentucky
               , General Ulysses S. Grant occupied Paducah. The
                    southerners' line was established from New Madrid, 
                        Missouri
                    , through Island No. 10 in the 
                        Mississippi
                    , Fort Henry on the Tennessee River, Fort Donelson on the
                        Cumberland River, to Bowling Green, and on into eastern 
                        Kentucky
                    .
            Grant moved from Cairo and Paducah to attack Forts Henry and Donelson early in 1862. The first
                    surrendered on February 6 and the second on February 16. The Union forces then advanced up the 
                        Tennessee
                     and were attacked by Confederate General Albert S. Johnston at 
                        Pittsburgh
                     Landing, 
                  
                     20 Williams, Lincoln Finds a General, II,
                            445–479.
               
                     or 
                        Shiloh
                    , on April 6. The federal troops were driven back from most of the field of battle, but
                    as the day ended, eight companies of the Thirty-sixth Indiana, the vanguard of the army of Don
                    Carlos Buell, arrived in time to participate in the last few minutes of the fighting. Their
                    appearance also signified that other regiments were not far away. General Lew Wallace, who had been
                    summoned about noon, had taken the wrong road and did not reach the field of battle until late in
                    the afternoon, but with him came three brigades of troops with other Indiana regiments among them.
                    As night fell on this Sunday, April 6, Grant knew that he had met the full force of the Confederate
                    attack, that Wallace's army was on the field of battle, and that Buell's army was
                    being ferried over the river to him. During the next day the trend of battle was reversed, and
                    Grant's forces recovered much of the lost ground. Very early on April 8, the Confederates
                    withdrew and began their march back to Corinth, 
                        Mississippi
                    .21
            
            After the battles at Fort Henry, Fort Donelson, and 
                        Shiloh
                    , the steamboats of Indiana and neighboring states were employed in bringing back the
                    wounded. Buildings in the Ohio River cities were converted into hospitals, and
                    the women volunteered as nurses. Governor Morton mobilized doctors and supplies to assist in caring
                    for the wounded.
            General Henry W. Halleck now assumed immediate command of the western army and advanced slowly on
                    Corinth, which he entered on June 1. Meanwhile Captain David G. Farragut, who had forced his way up
                    the 
                        Mississippi
                     with his fleet, took 
                        New Orleans
                     on April 25. Proceeding northward and receiving the surrender of 
                  Baton Rouge, Louisiana
               , and Natchez, 
                        Mississippi
                    , he ran past Vicksburg and joined the fleet of gunboats which had cleared the river as
                    far south as Vicksburg. The Confederates had abandoned 
                  Columbus, Kentucky
               , and New
                    Madrid, 
                        Missouri
                    , and were forced to surrender Island No. 10.
            Since Halleck refused to furnish troops for an attack on Vicksburg in 1862, the seige of that
                    stronghold was postponed until the following year. The Confederacy continued to transport men and
                    supplies across the Mississippi River between Vicksburg and Port Hudson, 
                        Louisiana
                    . European goods were landed in Mexico and brought across 
                        Texas
                     and 
                        Louisiana
                     to the armies east of the 
                        Mississippi
                    . The Union blockade of 
                  
                     21
                            Ibid., Ill, 178–395, and especially 348–352.
               
                     the coast of the Confederate states greatly limited the direct
                    importation of such supplies.
            After Corinth had fallen, Buell was sent to take possession of eastern 
                        Tennessee
                    , but he quickly assumed a stationary position some thirty-five miles southeast of 
                        Nashville
                    . On August 28, General Braxton Bragg, who had assembled a southern army at 
                        Chattanooga
                    , marched out of that city and soon invaded 
                        Kentucky
                    . He was aided by General Kirby Smith, who advanced from 
                        Knoxville
                     to 
                        Kentucky
                    .
            Fear seized the Ohio River towns, martial law was proclaimed both in 
                        Cincinnati
                     and southern Indiana. Businessmen, clerks, and laborers formed local companies of home
                    guards, built earthworks, and assembled artillery and supplies for the defense of their homes. Two
                    small, poorly equipped, and untrained armies composed chiefly of Indiana soldiers were thrown into
                    the paths of the Confederate generals. One force met Smith at 
                  Richmond, Kentucky
               , where
                    it suffered defeat, but the battle gave additional time to prepare the defense of 
                        Cincinnati
                    . The other force fought Bragg at Munfordsville for three days before surrendering. This
                    delay helped make it possible for Buell to reach 
                        Louisville
                     first and to turn back southward to Perryville, where he checked the advance of Bragg
                    on October 8. The Confederates then withdrew to eastern 
                        Tennessee
                    , and Buell returned to 
                        Nashville
                    .22
            
            After failing to obey an order to advance into eastern 
                        Tennessee
                    , Buell was replaced by General William F. Rose-crans, who led the Union army to assault
                    Bragg at Stone River near Murfreesboro. The southern general, however, attacked
                    first and seemed to have won the battle on December 31; but Rosecrans, who would not retreat,
                    advanced on January 2 and forced the Confederates to retire to 
                        Chattanooga
                    , leaving central and western 
                        Tennessee
                     in Union hands. Rosecrans, Grant, Farragut, and their men had opened most but not all
                    of the Mississippi River, had won 
                        Kentucky
                    , and all of 
                        Tennessee
                     except the eastern part during the year 1862.
            Many Indiana regiments had been sent to 
                        Missouri
                     to help retain that state in the Union and then had been transferred to
                    Grant's command in the Tennessee River campaign. 
                  
                     22 John D. Barnhart (ed.), "A Hoosier Invades the
                            Confederacy: Letters and Diaries of Leroy S. Mayfield," Indiana
                                Magazine of History, XXXIX (June, 1943), 149–150; Stampp, Indiana Politics during the Civil War, 152–155.
               
                     Still other regiments had gone directly to Grant's
                    army. Many wounded had returned home. Governor Morton devoted much time to the Hoosier soldiers,
                    seeing that they had warm clothing, adequate food, and proper care when ill or wounded. He became
                    known as the "soldiers' friend."
            A rancorous partisan conflict without precedent in Indiana also took place in 1862. The Democratic
                    state convention met in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on January 8 in the midst of discouraging circumstances. Divided among themselves in
                    respect to support of the war, their attitude towards slavery, and the methods of preserving the
                    Union, Democrats were associated in the minds of many people with the rebellion of the South. Thomas
                    A. Hendricks, president of the convention, promised support of the war for the preservation of the
                    Union, but warned against abolitionists and complained about economic changes which the war
                    stimulated and which worked to the advantage of the East. The platform promised support of a war for
                    the "integrity of the Union under the Constitution" but opposed emancipation of
                    the Negroes or the subjugation of the southern states.23 The platform was
                    unrealistic in demanding the preservation of the Union as it had been before the war.
            The Union party, a coalition of Republicans and War Democrats, met in convention on June 18,
                    anticipating an easy victory. Governor Morton as president of the convention again urged the
                    abandonment of party for the duration of the war. He also spoke of treasonable societies in the
                    state and of the possibility that strong measures against them might be necessary. Another speaker
                    likened the Democratic convention to the 
                        Hartford
                     Convention in which the Federalist party had opposed the War of 1812 and by so doing
                    had destroyed its own usefulness. The nominations for offices were divided between the War Democrats
                    and the Republicans. The platform declared in favor of vigorous prosecution of the war, which should
                    be waged for the preservation of the Union and not for the abolition of slavery.
            Developments that occurred between the meeting of the Union party convention and the election caused
                    a sharp reversal of sentiment. Economic measures of the Lincoln administration—the growth
                    of the national debt, the Pacific 
                  
                     23 Foulke, Life of Oliver P. Morton, I,
                            203–212.
               
                     Railroad Act, with its large land grant and loan of money to a
                    private corporation, and especially the raising of tariff duties to aid
                    manufacturers—seemed to be a return to Hamiltonian policies. Arbitrary arrests,
                    interference by the military in civilian affairs, violation of freedom of speech and the press, and
                    the suspension of the writ of habeas corpus for all persons charged with disloyal practices caused
                    the people to fear that their constitutional liberties were in danger. The failure of the military
                    to win the war was very disappointing. Hoosiers had expected the opening of the
                        Mississippi River, but they were not prepared for the failure of
                    McClellan's Peninsular Campaign, the call for more volunteers which followed, and the
                    disaster at the Second Battle of Bull Run.24
            
            One of the causes of dissatisfaction in the state was the conscription of soldiers. Volunteers had
                    enlisted in 1861, but in December the War Department, fearing that it could not equip and use so
                    many soldiers, ordered governors to cease raising troops. When resumed in 1862 recruiting became
                    increasingly difficult. In June urgent appeals were sent to the governors for more regiments, and
                    early in July Lincoln issued a call for three hundred thousand additional soldiers. Fervent appeals,
                    promises of money for the support of soldiers' families, and bounties for volunteers
                    brought only languid recruiting. On July 17, 1862, Congress passed an act authorizing the states to
                    resort to conscription if necessary to meet their quotas. In each county a commissioner was
                    appointed, who in turn named a deputy in each precinct. The latter was to make a list of all
                    resident male citizens between the ages of eighteen and forty-five. The commissioners and deputies
                    then passed on all pleas for exemption and sent the final lists to the general commissioner in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The general commissioner determined whether each township had met its quota and then
                    ordered those that had not to draw names from the list and send the draftees to the capital.
                    Substitutes could be employed.25
            
            In conformity with this measure, on August 4, Lincoln requested another 300,000 men. Because of
                    inadequate records, Indiana officials assumed that the state had failed 
                  
                     24 Williams, Lincoln Finds a General, I,
                            327–330; Stampp, Indiana Politics during the Civil War,
                            128–148.
                  
                     25 Charles E. Canup, "Conscription and Draft in Indiana
                            during the Civil War," Indiana Magazine of History, X (June,
                            1914), 70–76.
               
                     to furnish its quota, although later investigation indicated
                    that the state had furnished 8,008 more men than had been required. The draft was administered by
                    state officials and was applied only to those townships which had not furnished the number of
                    volunteers required of them. A total of 3,003 men were conscripted. Dissatisfied persons destroyed a
                    draft box and delayed the officials in 
                        Blackford County
                     for two days, while threats and misdemeanors marred the record of 
                        Fountain County
                    . "Few events did more to strengthen the opposition [to the state Republican
                    administration] than this first crude attempt to administer a draft."26
                    It seemed to confirm fears of arbitrary government.
            The reassertion of abolitionism raised again the question of the purpose of the war and of the
                    sincerity of the original statements of the war aims of the administration. Although Lincoln had
                    revoked the military orders of General John C. Fremont, in 
                        Missouri
                    , and General David Hunter, in 
                        South Carolina
                    , both of whom sought to abolish slavery in their military districts, the President
                    suggested that Congress pass a measure for compensated emancipation in the border states. Congress
                    accepted this proposal only insofar as it applied to the 
                        District of Columbia
                     and excluded slavery from the territories. After the Battle of 
                        Antietam
                    , Lincoln issued the preliminary Emancipation Proclamation, September 22, 1862, which
                    declared that slaves would be free in all states resisting the Union on January 1, 1863. Since the
                    proclamation applied only to the people of the Confederacy—who would not obey the
                    order—it was in reality only an announcement of policy and may not have freed a slave.
                    Although very pleasing to the Radicals and to English liberals who helped prevent English
                    interference in the American war, to many in Indiana the proclamation meant that the war had become
                    a means of ending slavery as well as a struggle to preserve the Union. To numerous citizens who had
                    migrated from south of the Ohio River and who were not willing to fight for the
                    abolitionist cause, this proclamation was very objectionable.
            The 
                        New Albany
                    
                    Ledger, along with many War Democrats who had been affiliated with the Union
                    party, transferred its support to the Democrats.27 As the strength of the 
                  
                     26 Stampp, Indiana Politics during the Civil War,
                            144.
                  
                     27
                            Ibid., 147–152.
               
                     Union party weakened, its leaders resorted to charges of
                    disloyalty and treason and to a stimulation of emotions by means of horror stories which told of
                    cruelty on the part of Confederates. The report of a federal grand jury on a secret political
                    society was circulated as a campaign document. Republicans cultivated the impression that only Union
                    party members were loyal and that only their candidates could safely be entrusted with official
                    positions.
            The grand jury report just mentioned exposed the existence and activities of the Knights of the
                    Golden Circle. This organization, which originated before the Civil War, was said to have been
                    devoted to the conquest of Mexico and its acquisition by the 
                        United States
                    . As secession became eminent, the South took the place of the nation in the
                    organization's ritual and purpose, and the order expanded into the Ohio
                    Valley. Castles or local chapters were organized in Indiana, but the revelation of the
                    group's existence and the charges of its supposed treason were so inextricably involved in
                    the efforts of the Union party to win the state election of 1862 that the grains of truth cannot now
                    be separated from the chaff. The charges were often so extreme as to discredit themselves. Many of
                    the people undoubtedly believed that the order was an organization of traitors, and, perhaps, some
                    of the members were. Other observers asserted that such allegations were not only false but were
                    made for the purpose of winning the election. The existence of the society has been questioned, but
                    the persons said to be its leaders were critical and unfriendly towards many of the methods which
                    the state and national administrations were using to win the war.28 The KGC was
                    said to have protected individuals against arbitrary arrest and mob action, opposed Hamiltonian
                    economic policies, and insisted that the draft was unconstitutional. Its friends asserted that it
                    was only a harmless political club, but its enemies attributed to it all kinds of disorders,
                    murders, resistance to conscription, and treason.
            The failure to achieve military success and the raid of Braxton Bragg and Kirby Smith into 
                        Kentucky
                     at this time 
                  
                     28 "The Republican constructed myths about Copperhead secret
                            societies served their purposes well. It was a political apparition which appeared on the
                            eve of elections. It was a figment of Republican imagination." Frank L. Klement,
                                The Copperheads in the Middle West (
                                Chicago
                            , Ill., 1960), 205. The importance of Copperhead organizations has undoubtedly
                            been exaggerated.
               
                     counteracted much of the advantage which the Republicans gained
                    from the exposure of the Knights. The destruction and capture of untrained Indiana soldiers at 
                        Richmond
                     and Munfordsville did not change Indiana's lack of enthusiasm for the war. And
                    shortly before the election, the draft was first employed in Indiana.
            On October 14 the voters gave the Democratic candidates their preference by approximately nine
                    thousand votes. The new state legislature contained Democratic majorities in both houses, but
                    control of the senate was very narrowly held. The lesser state officials and seven of eleven
                    congressmen were Democrats. This result was, according to the victors, an expression of
                    dissatisfaction with Republican policies and with the failure of the administration to win the war.
                    The absence of many voters in the armies, said the Republicans, determined the election since there
                    was no provision for absentee ballots. Some truth may be found in each statement, but adequate
                    evidence does not exist to estimate the division of the soldiers between the two parties. The
                    soldier vote was assumed by the Republicans to be in their favor, but there is some evidence to the
                        contrary.29
            
            Discouragement with the slow progress of the war and the bitterness of the previous political
                    campaign led to the collapse of constitutional government in Indiana in 1863. This development was
                    perhaps different only in degree from what took place in other states, for despondency, gloom,
                    declining morale, and even desertions were general. Professor Wood Gray has called the months from
                    December 13, 1862, to July 4, 1863, the "Period of Despair."30
            
            Amid charges of disloyalty, the legislature met on January 8, 1863. Before a week had passed, Thomas
                    A. Hendricks, the defeated candidate for governor in 1860, and David Turpie, a moderate Democrat,
                    were elected to the 
                        United States
                     Senate. Turpie completed the unexpired term of Jesse D. Bright, which lasted only a few
                    weeks, but Hendricks was chosen for the regular term, 1863–1869. Henry S. Lane, who had
                    been elected governor on the Republican ticket in 1860, and 
                        United States
                     senator in 1861, was the other member 
                  
                     29 "Fourteenth Indiana Regiment, Peninsular Campaign to
                            Chancellorsville: Letters to the 
                                Vincennes
                             Western Sun," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXIII
                            (September, 1937), 341.
                  
                     30 Wood Gray, The Hidden Civil War: The Story of the
                                Copperheads (
                                New York
                            , 1942), 118–147.
               
                     of the Senate from Indiana. The state house of representatives
                    began to consider several partisan measures to lessen the authority of the governor, for Morton had
                    conducted himself in a very forceful manner and many of the opposition hated him intensely. The
                    Democrats proposed to create an executive council composed of the other state administrative
                    officials, to limit the governor's power, to reorganize the state board of benevolent
                    institutions, and to modify the militia system by dividing the governor's authority with
                    other executive officers. Like most politicians recently come to power, they proposed to redistrict
                    the state in a manner favorable to themselves.
            Republican members of the legislature raised the cry of treason, and when Democratic members showed
                    their determination to proceed, Republican members of the house of representatives bolted from 
                        Indianapolis
                     and prevented the assembling of a quorum. The constitution of the state required
                    two-thirds of each house to be present in order to form a quorum. The bolters went to 
                        Madison
                    , where they remained until the legislature adjourned. Apparently they intended to cross
                    the 
                        Ohio
                     if threatened with arrest.31
            
            Democratic representatives expected that their control over the appropriation bill would force the
                    Republicans to return before the session ended. Morton, however, chose to regard the Democratic
                    bills as proof of a treasonable conspiracy to take Indiana out of the Union; he therefore refused to
                    reassemble the legislature. The national War Department, nineteen counties, and various private
                    persons furnished the governor almost a half million dollars with which he financed the government
                    without the legislature and the appropriation bill. The most serious problem was the necessity of
                    paying interest due on the state debt. Winslow, Lanier, and Company, however, furnished
                    approximately $629,432.85 to meet the payments. In this manner the Republican governor
                    was able to evade the results of the election of 1862.32
            
            Many unfortunate results of a long and bitter war were felt in the northern states before the
                    victories of 1863 brought hope to a confused people. Lower moral standards were 
                  
                     31
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, March 11, 1863; Stampp, Indiana Politics
                                during the Civil War, 158–185.
                  
                     32 Cull, "James F. D. Lanier," 69. Lanier, Sketch of the Life of J. F. D. Lanier, 35, gives $640,000 as
                            the sum furnished by the company.
               
                     much in evidence as numerous individuals failed to resist
                    opportunities to join in profiteering on war contracts. Gambling, heavy drinking, and various forms
                    of vice seemed to be increasing. Soldiers and other men lawlessly ignored the rights of property
                    holders and citizens. The organization of the northern states into military districts and the
                    assumption of governmental control by army officers approached the imposition of military rule over
                    a civilian people. Fanaticism, bitter sectionalism, and war hysteria rose to deny the rights of the
                    people to think for themselves and criticize what they regarded as unwise state and national actions
                    and policies. Inflation and the absence of wage earners who were in the army brought hardships to
                    families of the poor, while death or permanent disability of wage earners often made their
                    families' situation desperate. As bitter partisanship brought the collapse of
                    constitutional government, uncontrolled emotionalism threatened the loss of civil freedom.
            What of the enlisted man? How did he fare? The soldier was a fighting man, but he spent little of his
                    time in battle. He was constantly engaged in adjusting himself to a new scheme of life made
                    necessary by the existence of war, but which was a compromise between the civilian life he had known
                    and the exigencies of military activities. He learned quickly to sleep in the open or to find some
                    kind of shelter along the line of march. As soon as his regiment became stationary he constructed
                    some type of shanty out of whatever materials were at hand. When the Fourteenth Indiana Regiment was
                    guarding the 
                        Baltimore
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     Railroad, a number of men found themselves without shelter in the midst of a rainy
                    night. They stood around the campfires until morning, a night they would long remember. A month
                    later at another camp, "a large pile of pine lumber, two stacks of hay, and a huge rick of
                    straw vanished in a jiffy." One can imagine that the men did not stand out in the rain that
                    night. The troops' usual equipment included tents and stoves—"better
                    quarters no soldier would ask for." Too frequently, however, orders came to march as soon
                    as comfortable quarters had been established.
            Company G of the Fourteenth Indiana Infantry built on Cheat Mountain in what is now West 
                        Virginia
                     a camp that was somewhat ususual. "The broad, well bouldered avenue that runs
                    north and south between the two rows of Co. G's 
                    'dens' has been dubbed Provision Street for the reason that it runs smack into the
                    Commissary's Department." "Corporal Wm. H. Jackson's
                    mess… built a log shanty covered with bark, stone fire-place, and bark chimney. A great
                    many huts principally of stone and on the Esquimaux style, have been erected in the encampment
                    within a day of [or] two, some of them exhibiting considerable skill and
                    ingenuity.…" "Denny, Patterson, and I have our bed filled with a
                    plentiful supply of fresh `feathers,' (the tips of young pine and cedar tree branches) and
                    sleep as warm and comfortable thereon as though ensconced (Dutch fashion) between two feather
                    beds."
            The campfire was a necessary concomitant of military life. Around it some cooking was done, clothes
                    dried, and benumbed bodies warmed. It was the center of social life where stories were swapped and
                    rumors made their rounds. "Up to 9 o'clock camp fires burned brightly; around them
                    groups of soldiers gathered singing, laughing, `speculating' on the coming fight. There was
                    a constant jingle, jingle of iron ram-rods, snapping of caps, and sputtering of hot grease in sundry
                    frying pans.… "33
            
            The soldier often experienced the necessity of finding his own food or going hungry. The commissary
                    department generally kept up with the regiments and furnished the men with such edibles as could be
                    procured but sometimes fell behind. Food tended to be very monotonous and tiresome. "We
                    have nothing to complain of just now but our grub which is of the most miserable quality. Should
                    like to see a whole brigade of commissaries hung." Furthermore, on raids and forced marches
                    the men carried with them rations which could not offer much variety. Consequently the soldier
                    learned to forage for himself, as well as to build shelters. One of the men of the Fourteenth
                    Indiana wrote in February, 1862: 
                        Wednesday night at eleven o'clock we boarded the cars and steamed down the road
                            twenty-two miles. About daylight the train halted and the regiment disembarked, built fires
                            along… the railroad track, and 
                        
                           33 [Burnett], "The Fourteenth Indiana Regiment on
                                    Cheat Mountain," Indiana Magazine of History, XXIX
                                    (December, 1933), 350–371, see 359–366; "Fourteenth
                                    Indiana Regiment: Letters to the 
                                        Vincennes
                                     Western Sun," ibid., XXXIV (March, 1938),
                                    78–79; Theodore F. Upson, With Sherman to the Sea, ed.
                                    by Oscar O. Winther (
                                        Baton Rouge
                                    , La., 1943), 44, 144.
                     
                             thawed out our benumbed and stiffened limbs, the ride
                            in open boxcars having cramped us up considerably, and more, too.
                        Grub being scarce, the boys obtained leave to knock over anything in the eating live [line]
                            that was to be found on its legs within range. A general deploy for fresh rations took place
                            immediately—and sheep, "slow deer" (porkers), rabbits, ducks,
                            geese, &c., were made to suffer that day.34
                  
                    At other times some of the men were entertained in the homes of people who were
                    Unionists—but only in territory where there had been little fighting. The lack of garden
                    vegetables and fresh fruit was a serious failure of the commissary. Soldiers complained that they
                    were fed on "side meat and crackers till we are tired of it—no vegetables or
                    fresh meat for weeks past." The lack of green stuff over a long period of time brought
                    scurvy.
            The quartermaster endeavored to keep the men adequately clothed, but the baggage frequently failed to
                    keep up with the troops. Soldiers on long marches refused to carry articles that were not
                    immediately necessary. Scenes such as the following were fairly frequent. As one officer commented,
                    "The sun shone bright and warm…. the roads were strewn thickly with U. S.
                    blankets, shelter tents, overcoats, and clothing of every description…. the old soldiers
                    of the army carry nothing but arms, ammunition, and the grub-bag."35
            
            But on September 8, 1862, the same officer complained that 
                        here we are, drawn up in line-of-battle, on half rations, and the poorest kind at that,
                            without blankets—scores without shoes.… Many without shirts, socks,
                            shoes or caps even, and this, too, on American soil, inside of the 
                                United States
                            , along side of regiments that are not only fresh, but with everything complete,
                            and furnished with full rations of the best quality.
                        [Early that same year this officer's regiment]… received a full supply of
                            under-clothing, mittens, tippets, &c.; Likewise, a "heaps of
                            goodies" and something stronger than water.… [In June] caps, blouses,
                            pants, drawers, shirts, socks, shoes, &c [were distributed].36
                  
                    
                    
                  
                     34 "The Fourteenth Indiana Regiment in the Valley of 
                                Virginia
                            : Letters to the 
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Sun," Indiana Magazine of History, XXX (September, 1934), 282.
                  
                     35
                            Ibid., 275, 276, 289; "Fourteenth Indiana Regiment," ibid., XXXIV (March, 1938), 71–98, see 89.
                  
                     36 "Fourteenth Indiana Regiment, Peninsular Campaign to
                            Chancellorsville," ibid., XXXIII (September, 1937),
                            325–348, see 330; "The Fourteenth Indiana Regiment in the Valley of 
                                Virginia
                            ," ibid., XXX (September, 1934), 283, 296.
               
                     Sometimes the enemy was driven from his camp and his supplies
                    were confiscated. Such an incident was described by the correspondent of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Sun: "Here [was] a squad of infantry, with a knapsack or two
                    each—strings of sausage, lengths of stove pipe, bed quilts, brooms, buckets full of
                    honey, extra guns, chickens, turkies, loaves of bread, and other articles too numerous to
                    mention." A cavalryman came in with "an extra large share of the `spoils of
                    war'— a large turkey and half a dozen chickens hung from his saddlebow, while a
                    feather bed, three different colored blankets, a broom, a skillet and a goose were fastened on
                    behind." Obviously conditions varied from scarcity to plenty in a very short time.37
            
            Amusement was not entirely lacking, although no officially appointed agents were authorized to
                    arrange entertainment. One evening in December, 1861, at Romney, 
                        Virginia
                    , the Fifth 
                        Ohio
                     Regiment invited the Fourteenth Indiana to "coffee, &c."
                    Other refreshments and amusements were obtained from time to time in taverns and saloons. Once in a
                    while the soldiers made an occasion of a particular opportunity, as on December 12, 1862, when the
                    Fourteenth Indiana was "quartered in the fine brick buildings on Caroline Street in the
                    city of 
                        Fredericksburg
                    , Va.—ransacking pillaging, feasting, fiddling, dancing, and having a gay
                    time generally, as soldiers will have whenever opportunity offers, even though it be on the eve of a
                    great battle and under the very guns of the enemy."38 Occasionally when
                    quartered near a large city the soldier or perhaps his company received a leave and spent some time
                    away from camp. At other times he was permitted to return home to visit or was sent back to aid in
                    recruiting. By and large, however, the fighting man was forced to find his own amusement in camp or
                    the immediate vicinity.
            Two happy occasions in camp were the days when mail and the paymaster arrived. The men were starved
                    for letters and newspapers from home, and the diarist and letter writer seldom failed to mention the
                    general rejoicing occasioned by 
                  
                     37 "The Fourteenth Indiana Regiment in the Valley of 
                                Virginia
                            ," ibid., XXX (September, 1934), 280.
                  
                     38 "Fourteenth Indiana Regiment," ibid., XXXIV (March, 1938), 80; "The Fourteenth Indiana Regiment in the
                            Valley of 
                                Virginia
                            ," ibid., XXX (September, 1934), 278; Upson, With Sherman to the Sea, 45, 92, 106.
               
                     the arrival of news about friends and loved ones. Seemingly the
                    postmaster was even more welcome than the paymaster, although the latter was also received with a
                    joyous shout. Money in the pocket could always be spent at the sutler's or in a neighboring
                    village, and the need for various items and liquid refreshments always seemed to be urgent. The
                    sutler, because of his high prices, was an unpopular individual.39
            
            Life in the army was, however, a serious business. Gradually poor health, accidents, wounds,
                    fatalities, and desertions reduced the company's strength. From time to time recruits were
                    brought in as replacements, but many of these additions disappeared in time. A company that
                    participated in the full four years of fighting would be reduced to half strength or even less and
                    then be merged with other units.40 The soldier who saw his fellows killed or
                    disabled by wounds or disease tended to become hard and fatalistic. He developed into a skilled and
                    experienced fighter, but he was likely to feel that his continued existence was largely a matter of
                    chance. He was unhappy about being away from home, family, and friends. He became emotionally
                    wrought up about the war, why it was being fought, why it was not being won more rapidly, and about
                    supposedly disloyal persons back home. A large backlog of dissatisfaction, prejudice, and hate were
                    stored up, which many a soldier would carry with him to the grave. The last two generations of
                    historians have pointed feelingly to the wrongs suffered by the South after the war, and yet little
                    effort has been made to understand why northerners who were absent from their homes fighting to
                    preserve their country behaved as they did after 1865. Some of the reasons may be found in the
                    months and years they spent in camps, prisons, battles, and hospitals. Many of these men could not
                    return to the ways of thinking and living which they had known before 1861.
            The war-weary people of the North, whether in the armed forces or at home, were encouraged to
                    continue their support 
                  
                     39 [Burnett], "The Fourteenth Indiana Regiment on Cheat
                            Mountain," Indiana Magazine of History, XXIX (December, 1933),
                            357; "Fourteenth Indiana Regiment," ibid., XXXIV (March,
                            1938), 79–80; Upson, With Sherman to the Sea, 47.
                  
                     40 "Fourteenth Indiana Regiment, Peninsular Campaign to
                            Chancellorsville," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXIII
                            (September, 1937), 338; "Fourteenth Indiana Regiment," ibid., XXXIV (March, 1938), 88–89; Upson, With Sherman to the
                                Sea, 85–86, 95, 122. See also Alan T. Nolan, The Iron
                                Brigade: A Military History (
                                New York
                            , 1961), 263–282, et passim—an excellent
                            piece of military history.
               
                     of the national administration by the victories at 
                        Gettysburg
                     and Vicksburg. The successes of July, 1863, not only gave hope to the people, but they
                    proved to be the turning point of the Civil War.
            After Burnside's defeat at 
                  Fredericksburg,
                            Virginia
               , December 13, 1862, President
                    Lincoln chose "Fighting Joe" Hooker to lead Union forces on a march to 
                        Richmond
                    , the Confederate capital. At Chancellorsville, May 13, 1863, he was met by Generals Lee
                    and Jackson, who administered to the federal army a serious reverse which was somewhat
                    counterbalanced for the North by the death of Jackson. Lee seized the opportunity offered by the
                    confusion in national military circles to invade the North by way of the Shenandoah
                    Valley. Lincoln hurriedly placed the Army of the Potomac under General George G. Meade,
                    who hastened northward by a route shorter than the Confederates' and reached 
                        Gettysburg
                     ahead of Lee. During the first three days of July the two great armies engaged in
                    bloody combat. Lee's invasion was checked, although the forty thousand casualties were
                    about equally divided. The Confederate General retired in such good order that Meade feared to
                    attack and allowed the southern army to return to 
                        Virginia
                     without further challenge.41
            
            In the West, Grant had begun his campaign against Vicksburg late in 1862, but without immediate
                    success. He transported his army down the 
                        Mississippi
                     and marched around the fortifications in a semicircle on the western side of the river.
                    His boats ran past Vicksburg at night and then ferried the army to the eastern shore at Grand Gulf.
                    Grant hurriedly advanced on Jackson, 
                        Mississippi
                    , headed off Confederate reinforcements, and approached Vicksburg from the east.
                    Confederate General John C. Pemberton, who was ordered to hold Vicksburg at all costs, permitted
                    himself to be confined and besieged in the town. On July 4, 1863, after the exhaustion of his food
                    supplies, he surrendered an army of some thirty thousand men and extensive quantities of artillery
                    and military supplies. The loss was costly to the South, and the opening of the 
                        Mississippi
                     was an important advantage to the North. Numerous Indiana regiments participated in the
                    battles and siege operations, and the graves of hundreds of Indiana soldiers are located in the
                    federal 
                  
                     41 Williams, Lincoln Finds a General, II,
                            547–759.
               
                     cemetery on the battleground. The victories at 
                        Gettysburg
                     and Vicksburg restored the hope of the North that the war would be won and the nation
                        saved.42
            
            The revival of faith in the administration was timely, for conditions in Indiana were critical.
                    Political animosity continued at the boiling point, many persons protested the new draft, and the
                    vigorous Confederate John H. Morgan and his cavalry invaded the state.
            The most serious crisis came in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on May 20, 1863, when the Democrats held a mass state convention. The state was then
                    being governed by Morton without the legislature because Republicans had bolted the session and left
                    the capital, and the Democrats had failed to pass the appropriation bill. General Burnside, of the
                    Department of the 
                        Ohio
                    , issued an order against "express or implied" treason. Arbitrary
                    arrests which he ordered caused Morton to protest. "The General had little faith in the
                    loyalty of Indiana, and it was only Morton's protest that prevented the establishment of
                    martial law in his state."43 In April, General Milo S. Hascal, of the
                    District of Indiana, ordered that newspapers or speakers who endeavored "to bring the war
                    policy of the government into disrepute" should be treated as violators of
                    Burnside's order. The editor of the 
                        Plymouth
                    
                    Democrat, who challenged the order, was arrested and sent to 
                        Cincinnati
                    . The owners of the paper were required to hire a new "loyal" editor
                    and were placed under $5,000 bond not to violate the order again. Other papers were
                    warned to obey or cease publication.
            The violation of freedom of the press by military officers seemed to Democrats to be characteristic
                    of the general policy of the Governor and his party. Identification by the Republicans of criticism
                    with disloyalty and Morton's insistence that he had saved Indiana for the Union were
                    regarded by the Democrats as brazen distortions of the truth. In April and May the imposition of
                    military government, arbitrary arrests, and interference with freedom of the press angered the
                    critics of Morton almost beyond endurance.
            The Governor thought his actions were necessary to put down treason. Undoubtedly disloyalty existed,
                    but the crucial question concerns the wisdom of his policy, its necessity, and 
                  
                     42 Edward Channing, A History of the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (6 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1905–1925), VI, 546–553.
                  
                     43 Stampp, Indiana Politics during the Civil War,
                            198–199.
               
                     the extent of disloyalty which he sought to counteract. Was the
                    situation so alarming as to necessitate arbitrary arrests, interference with spoken and written
                    criticism, and use of the military? A month and a half later, General John H. Morgan invaded the
                    state. He hoped to find pro-southerners to help him, but the response was very disappointing to
                        him.44
            
            Morton also failed to understand the functions of an opposition party. Had he adopted a less extreme
                    policy, the extremists would have been unable to masquerade as defenders of civil rights. Although
                    the war was over when the Supreme Court decided the case of Ex parte Milligan, the
                    decision disapproved interference by the military when the civil courts were functioning. The
                    highest judicial authority disapproved of the use of military courts.
            As the day for the Democratic mass convention drew near, General Hascall mobilized infantry, cavalry,
                    and artillery in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on the assumption that the Knights of the Golden Circle were about to start a
                    revolutionary uprising. Daniel Voorhees, one of the Democrats who opposed the conduct of the war,
                    opened the convention with a defiant address in which he criticized the use of military government
                    and defended the right of the people to discuss public policies.45 Later a band
                    of soldiers stopped Samuel R. Hamill while he was speaking. Disorders took place in various parts of
                    the city, and many men were arrested for carrying concealed weapons or for uttering disloyal
                    sentiments. Soldiers with fixed bayonets interrupted Senator Hendrick's speech to the
                    convention, but officers ordered them away before violence occurred. As people started home on the
                    railroads, they were searched for weapons. A train was stopped near Pogue's Run, into which
                    a number of passengers threw their revolvers. The incident was thereafter called the
                    "Battle of Pogue's Run." That serious trouble did not occur, however, was
                    due in part to the forbearance of the Democrats.
            Congress passed on March 3, 1863, a second conscription act which provided for an enrollment of
                    eligible men by federal officials. It contained three objectionable features. First, 
                  
                     44
                            Ibid., 196–202; Mayo Fesler, "Secret Political
                            Societies in the North during the Civil War," Indiana Magazine of
                                History, XIV (September, 1918), 183–286, see 211–213.
                  
                     45 Kenworthy, Daniel W. Voorhees, 62–63;
                            Fesler, "Secret Political Societies," Indiana Magazine of
                                History, XIV (September, 1918), 210–213.
               
                     individuals who were called for service could pay
                    $300 to be exempted or could hire substitutes. This provision rather obviously favored
                    rich men's sons. Second, conscription was to be used only in counties which had not met
                    their quotas of volunteers. Richer counties paid bounties to induce men to enlist. Nearby poorer
                    counties could not compete and consequently had to resort to the draft to fill their quotas. The
                    practice of paying bounties also led unscrupulous men to make a business of volunteering and
                    deserting in order to collect additional bounties. Third, enforcement and administration of the act
                    by federal officials was not popular in Indiana.
            Disorders occurred in connection with the draft, but an adequate critical study of the irregularities
                    has not been made. Considerable opposition to enrollment was met in 1863. Two officials were said to
                    have been murdered in 
                        Rush County
                    , another was killed in 
                        Sullivan County
                    , one was deprived of his papers in 
                        Fulton County
                    , still another was driven out of his district in 
                        Johnson County
                    , and other scattered disturbances occurred. Prompt arrest of offenders and appeals by
                    leading Democrats for obedience to the law until it could be tested in the courts soon restored
                    order. As usual, the irregularities were attributed to the Knights of the Golden Circle.
            In the spring and summer of 1863, this organization was replaced or absorbed by the Order of the
                    American Knights, which a year later became the Sons of Liberty. The nature of the organization
                    seems to have changed less than the name. Each order had a military division which was not revealed
                    to the general membership. To the large number of adherents it seemed to be a harmless Democratic
                    club through which they could protest arbitrary actions by the government and try to protect their
                    civil rights.46
            
            In addition to alarms about secret societies, resistance to conscription, and other disorders,
                    Indiana suffered invasion in 1863. Captain Thomas Hines, one of the officers of the famous
                    Confederate cavalry leader, John H. Morgan, crossed the Ohio River above 
                        Cannelton
                    , pushed northward as far as Paoli and Hardinsburg, and returned to the 
                        Ohio
                     above 
                  
                     46
                            
                                Canup
                            , "Conscription and Draft in Indiana during the Civil War,"
                                Indiana Magazine of History, X (June, 1914), 74–81; Fesler,
                            "Secret Political Societies," ibid., XIV (September,
                            1918), 224–236.
               
                    
                    
                        Leavenworth
                    . Most of his men were captured, but Hines swam the 
                        Ohio
                     and escaped.
            A month later, on July 8, Morgan crossed the river at 
                  Brandenburg, Kentucky
               , with
                    nearly three thousand cavalry, advanced to Corydon, divided his forces and took Paoli and
                    Greenville, united his troops again at 
                        Vienna
                     and 
                        Lexington
                    , moved northeastward to 
                        Versailles
                    , and left the state near Harrison, 
                        Ohio
                    . He had little trouble securing food, money, and fresh horses and was able to defeat
                    the small bodies of militia that opposed him. Governor Morton called on the men of the southern half
                    of Indiana to organize, arm, and take the field. In the northern part of the state, citizens were
                    asked to organize military companies and hold themselves ready for action. In two days, twenty
                    thousand men assembled in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and another forty-five thousand were nearly ready to serve. Morgan destroyed railroads
                    and bridges to delay his pursuers. The damage he wrought in the state has been estimated at
                    $500,000, but in return he left a host of stories—many humorous, others
                    tragic—that have enriched the traditions of the state. Because he feared to try crossing
                    the Ohio River at 
                        Madison
                     and because the militia was closing in, he fled into 
                        Ohio
                    . On July 26 he was captured at Salineville in eastern 
                        Ohio
                    . He had expected the people of southern Indiana to come to his aid, but their efforts
                    to capture him should have quieted the fears of various officials about their loyalty.47
            
            After the capture of Vicksburg, Rosecrans, who was in command of the federal forces in eastern 
                        Tennessee
                    , advanced against Bragg at 
                        Chattanooga
                    . He bypassed the city and met Bragg at Chickamauga to the south on September 19 and 20.
                    The Confederate army had been reinforced by the armies of General James Longstreet and General Simon
                    Buckner, the former a part of Lee's command at 
                        Richmond
                    . The Confederates checked Rosecrans and drove him back to 
                        Chattanooga
                     and then laid siege to the city. The fate of the Union army would have been even more
                    severe had not General George H. Thomas stood and fought while the bulk of the army fled.
            
               
                  47 Margrette Boyer, "Morgan's Raid in Indiana,"
                            Indiana Magazine of History, VIII (December, 1912), 149–165;
                        letter from J. Eberle West to his father, July 28, 1863, "Morgan's
                        Raid," ibid., XX (March, 1924), 92–96.
            
            
            Lincoln and Halleck quickly decided to rush the Eleventh and Twelfth Corps under Hooker from 
                        Virginia
                     to 
                        Chattanooga
                     by way of Wheeling, 
                  Indianapolis,
                            Louisville
               , and 
                        Nashville
                    — 
                        a movement that was… epoch-making in military annals, for nothing on a similar
                            scale had ever been attempted. More than twice the number of men that had been sent to Bragg
                            by the 
                                Richmond
                             government would be sent to the Federal commander, and they would have to move
                            twice the distance; the great Ohio River must be crossed twice, and
                            there were no railroad bridges.48
                  
                    In 
                        Indianapolis
                     a distance of one mile which separated two railroads delayed the movement of men and
                    equipment. Guns, wagons, baggage, and horses in addition to eighteen thousand men made the long
                    journey in two weeks time, the soldiers reaching their destination in nine days.
            General William T. Sherman was sent with many more troops from Vicksburg, and Grant was given
                    over-all command. On November 23 to 25 he drove the Confederates from the outskirts of 
                        Chattanooga
                    . Sherman in charge of the left wing and Thomas of the center attacked the southerners
                    on Missionary Ridge. Hooker's men scaled Lookout Mountain and planted the flag on its
                    summit, and Bragg hastily withdrew to the southeast. Many Indiana regiments took part in these
                    engagements.
            Though it won important battles, the military was not able to end the war in 1864, but it did go a
                    long way toward achieving that goal. In the west the task of destroying the Confederate army and
                    invading the lower South was accomplished; only in the east did large operations continue. Grant was
                    promoted on March 9, awarded the title of lieutenant general, and, under Lincoln, given supreme
                    authority over all federal forces. Taking the eastern command for himself, Grant brought about
                    concerted action in the two theaters of the war. William T. Sherman was placed in command at 
                        Chattanooga
                     and ordered to attack 
                        Atlanta
                     through the mountains.
            Both men started their campaigns in May and both followed somewhat similar tactics, attacking their
                    opponents in 
                  
                     48 Williams, Lincoln Finds a General, II,
                            764–765 ff.; Channing, A History of the 
                                    United States
                                , VI, 553–556.
               
                     the front and executing a flanking operation that forced a
                    retreat. Sherman, with an army twice the size of General Joseph E. Johnston's, was more
                    cautious than Grant and sometimes sought to make the flanking movement accomplish his aims without
                    the frontal attack. Johnston, who knew the importance of preserving his army, retreated by stages
                    towards 
                        Atlanta
                     without risking a general engagement. He was replaced on July 17 by General John B.
                    Hood, who in eleven days lost three battles and over ten thousand men. Sherman then laid siege to 
                        Atlanta
                    , but Hood refused to be surrounded and on September 3 marched to the west to attack his
                    opponent's supply line. Sherman sent Thomas to oppose Hood and began his own preparations
                    to march with sixty thousand men from 
                        Atlanta
                     to the sea.
            Meanwhile Grant moved against Lee. Their first encounter was the Battle of the Wilderness on May 5 to
                    7, in which both lost heavily in an indecisive conflict. When Grant began a flanking movement,
                    however, Lee retreated. The second engagement was a five-day battle at Spottsylvania, May 8 to 12,
                    in which Grant lost many men. He then moved southeastward around his opponent's right but
                    was met by Lee at North Anna. This time the national commander did not make a direct attack but
                    moved to his own left towards 
                        Richmond
                    . From May 5 to 21 his losses totaled thirty-four thousand. At Cold Harbor, June 1 to 3,
                    Grant lost another eight thousand men before advancing to the south. His next attack was on
                    Petersburg, where loses continued to be heavy. Finally he settled down to the siege of Petersburg
                    and 
                        Richmond
                    , while Sherman was systematically destroying the resources of the Confederacy.
            The political front in Indiana was more discouraging than the military situation. The failure of the
                    armed forces to secure a decisive victory and the heavy losses in men were very depressing. Many
                    became convinced that the war could not be won. The calls for additional soldiers and use of
                    conscription impressed the seriousness of the situation upon family after family. To make the
                    political conflict worse, a dangerous split developed among the Republicans when the Radicals spoke
                    against Lincoln's reconstruction policy. How to keep them in the party without making
                    concessions that would alienate the remaining War Democrats was a serious  problem. Much opposition to the renomination of Lincoln appeared on the
                    ground that his administration had failed to prosecute the war effectively.
            A mass convention of Union men met in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on February 23, 1864, to nominate a state ticket. Lincoln's friends executed a
                    surprise attack by immediately introducing resolutions nominating Morton for governor and
                    instructing the delegates to the national Republican convention to support Lincoln for another term.
                    The resolutions were adopted with a shout of approval. The Governor addressed the convention,
                    defended his administration, ignored economic issues, and demanded that the state make "no
                    compromise with traitors." The Indiana delegates to the national convention voted for the
                    nomination of Lincoln and Andrew Johnson.49
            
            The Democrats were also divided between peace advocates on the left and War Democrats on the right.
                    The conservatives without difficulty assumed control of the state convention when it met on July 12,
                    although the military situation had strengthened the hands of the peace advocates. Joseph E.
                    McDonald, who was nominated for governor and headed a ticket of conservative candidates for the
                    state offices, promised to uphold the state and national constitutions, to support the war, to
                    preserve the Union, and to make peace if the Union could thus be restored according to the
                    Constitution. The platform denounced Morton's usurpation of power, the violations of civil
                    liberty, and the waste of the national administration. In the Democratic national convention, the
                    Indiana delegates supported General McClellan. When he practically repudiated the peace plank of the
                    national platform, which declared the war a failure and demanded a cessation of hostilities in order
                    to restore the Union by peaceful means, he was supported by all except radicals. The peace men
                    obtained very little satisfaction from either the state or national party.50
            
            The military situation during the political campaign worried both Republicans and Democrats. The
                    Republicans feared the people might accept the Democratic assertion that the conduct of the war was
                    a failure. The opposition feared 
                  
                     49 Stampp, Indiana Politics during the Civil War,
                            217–227.
                  
                     50
                            Ibid., 230–235.
               
                     that the lack of victory would stimulate the peace men to
                    greater activity.
            On July 1, while Grant was besieging Petersburg, Lee sent General Jubal A. Early with seventeen
                    thousand men to drive federal forces from the Shenandoah Valley and to threaten
                    the national capital, as Lee had done in 1862 and 1863. In eleven days Early was in the outskirts of 
                        Washington
                     and might have taken the city had he not delayed his attack overnight. Reinforcements
                    from Grant arrived in time. Not until the latter half of September did General Philip H. Sheridan
                    drive Early from the Valley and then proceed to its devastation. In the meantime the near success of
                    the Confederates pointed up the apparent hopelessness of the war.
            As a result of the great losses suffered by Grant in his campaign to take 
                        Richmond
                    , on July 18, 1864, Lincoln called for 500,000 additional soldiers, of which
                    Indiana's share was 35,732. This call was very disappointing to Morton, who had tried to
                    arrange matters so that neither a call for more troops nor a draft should come during the political
                    campaign. But to meet such a large quota when enthusiasm was low would likely necessitate
                    conscription. Every possible effort was made to meet the call with volunteers, but 12,474 men had to
                    be drafted. Of this number, substitutes were sent by 4,466; conscientious objectors who were
                    released numbered 623; 97 deserted before reaching the army, which left 7,288 who joined the forces
                    as drafted men.51
            
            Much of the disorder that greeted conscription was attributed to the Sons of Liberty, an organization
                    which took the place of the earlier Order of American Knights and the Knights of the Golden Circle.
                    Today only estimates of the strength of these associations can be made, for most of the records have
                    disappeared.
            After the draft had aroused Morton's fear that a call for troops would be fatal to the
                    Republicans' hope of winning the election, he turned to the Sons of Liberty. In the top
                    hierarchy of this organization was a spy, Felix G. Stidger, whose report was helpful to the governor
                    in arranging another expose. On July 30, 1864, in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal information was 
                  
                     51
                            
                                Canup
                            , "Conscription and Draft in Indiana during the Civil War,"
                                Indiana Magazine of History, X (June, 1914), 79–83.
               
                     published about the order, its ritual, and its constitution.
                    Republican papers represented the Sons of Liberty as an integral part of the Democratic party.
            While the agitation was continuing, a foolish scheme of Harrison H. Dodd, state commander of the Sons
                    of Liberty, and a few of his associates was revealed. They planned to free the rebel prisoners at
                    Camp Morton, seize the arsenal, and start a general uprising in order to form a northwestern
                    confederacy or join the South or at least to weaken the Union. When a few Democratic leaders heard
                    of the conspiracy, they induced Dodd to abandon his project, and August 16, the date set for the
                    insurrection, passed without incident. Morton had been informed of the plans on August 3 by Stidger,
                    but he did little about them except to alert and strengthen the militia. On August 20, when he
                    learned of a shipment of arms to Dodd's place of business, the establishment was raided. A
                    membership list of the Sons of Liberty, which included the names of several Democratic candidates
                    for state offices, four hundred revolvers, and ammunition were seized. Sensational use was made of
                    this information by political speakers and the partisan press. Little or no distinction was made
                    between Dodd and his helpers and the Democratic party.52
            
            But the Governor had not finished with the leaders of the Sons of Liberty. Early in September Dodd
                    was arrested and brought before a military court. Within the next thirty days or so, five other
                    leaders were arrested. The strength of the conspiracy or its exact nature were not made clear by the
                    testimony, much of which was given by unreliable persons. A few days before the state election, Dodd
                    managed to escape. His flight was interpreted as a confession that the charges were true.
            The trials of the other defendants were started shortly before the national election. One of the five
                    men turned state's evidence and was released, four were declared guilty, and three of the
                    latter were sentenced to be hanged. Punishment was delayed while an appeal was made to the federal
                    courts. On April 3, 1866, the Supreme Court in Ex parte Milligan
                    
                  
                     52 Stampp, Indiana Politics during the Civil War,
                            239–247; Fesler, "Secret Political Societies," Indiana Magazine of History, XIV (September, 1918), 241–256.
               
                     declared that the military commission which conducted the
                    trials had no jurisdiction in the case and that trial of civilians by military courts in regions
                    where civil courts were functioning was illegal. The prisoners were released and were not tried in a
                    civil court. The decision of the Supreme Court has become one of the great bulwarks of American
                    freedom, but the trials were also of great advantage to Union party candidates in the state and
                    national elections.53
            
            Although the capture of 
                        Atlanta
                     and Sheridan's destructive march through the Shenandoah
                    Valley gave renewed hope to the North, Morton was still greatly worried about the outcome
                    of the elections. He tried repeatedly to delay the draft until after the people had voted. He
                    insisted that Indiana soldiers be given a furlough so they could reach home in time to vote. He
                    obtained the return of seventy-five hundred of the hundred-day volunteers and about nine thousand
                    wounded veterans, as well as delaying the departure of new recruits for the front.
            Morton seems to have been unnecessarily cautious, for on October 11 voters gave the ticket a
                    substantial majority of twenty thousand votes. The new legislature contained a majority of Union men
                    in both houses, and the congressional delegation was divided eight to three in favor of the Union
                    party. A month later Lincoln carried the state by a similar majority.
            After the elections, the military situation improved. On November 15, Sherman, having burned the
                    machine shops, left 
                        Atlanta
                     and marched across country to Savannah, 
                        Georgia
                    . On his way he destroyed everything of use to the Confederacy in a strip of land sixty
                    miles wide from 
                        Atlanta
                     to the sea. For one month he was out of communication with the federal government. Many
                    in the North worried about his fate until he took possession of Savannah on December 20.
            Meanwhile, General Hood had marched into 
                        Tennessee
                     and at 
                        Franklin
                     on November 30 attempted to destroy Union General John M. Schofield. On December 15 and
                    16, however, General Thomas, whose forces had been joined by Schofield, 
                  
                     53 Kenneth M. Stampp, "The Milligan Case and the Election of
                            1864 in Indiana," 
                        Mississippi Valley Historical
                                Review, XXXI (June, 1944), 41–58.
               
                     practically destroyed Hood's army at 
                        Nashville
                    . In a similar manner Grant's position at 
                  Richmond, Virginia
               , was
                    improved by Sheridan's defeat of Early. Northern forces now possessed 
                        Virginia
                     north of the James River, and Lee's prospects were
                    further darkened.
            On February 1, 1865, Sherman began a march northward from Savannah across 
                        South Carolina
                     and into 
                        North Carolina
                    . Joseph E. Johnston, who was placed in command of all the soldiers the Confederate 
                        United States
                     could raise in this area, tried to check Sherman at Averasborough on March 16. Sherman
                    reached Goldsborough a week later, where he was 160 miles south of Grant. Here he was joined by
                    Schofield, who had come from 
                        Tennessee
                     to aid him. This entire Union force would have moved to Grant's assistance if
                    that had been necessary.
            Grant, however, had seized the Petersburg and Lynchburg railroad and forced Lee to extend his lines
                    to the west. On April 1, he ordered Sheridan to attack Lee's right. As soon as Sheridan had
                    met some success, Grant ordered a general assault and began an envelopment of the Confederate army.
                    Lee evacuated 
                        Richmond
                     and Petersburg on April 3 and marched along the railroad to 
                        Danville
                    . Grant pursued rapidly. Soldiers dropped in their tracks whenever they were given an
                    hour or two to rest. On April 9, Grant had troops in front of Lee, and the surrender of Lee followed
                    at 
                        Appomattox
                     Court House. The men were paroled and allowed to keep their side arms and any horses
                    that were their own property. This capitulation forecast the end of the war. On April 26 Johnston
                    yielded to Sherman on the same terms as Lee had surrendered to Grant. Lincoln was assassinated on on
                    April 14.54
            
            The troops were disbanded as quickly as possible. Grant's and Sherman's men were
                    taken to 
                        Washington
                    , where they participated on May 20 in a mammoth victory parade before returning to
                    civil life. The One Hundredth Regiment of Indiana Volunteers, which had been organized on September
                    10, 1862, had fought with Grant at Vicksburg, had marched with Sherman to the sea, and had
                    participated in the 
                        Washington
                     victory parade, reached 
                        Indianapolis
                     on June 14, 1865. 
                  
                     54 Charming, A History of the 
                                    United States
                                , VI, 577–579, 612–636.
               
                     Peace had been restored to a divided nation, but it was not to
                    be generously shared with the defeated Confederates.
            Indiana had furnished 208,367 men, of which 11,718 were re-enlistments. If the average family
                    contained four persons, more than half of the families furnished one of its members to the armed
                    forces. Almost 12 per cent of the soldiers, 24,416, were killed or died during the war. A few over 5
                    per cent, or 10,846, deserted from the service. Although the deserters were a blot on the state, the
                    military record of Indiana soldiers was otherwise very creditable.55
            
            One of the near-casualties of the Civil War years in Indiana was the Democratic party, which had
                    enjoyed an almost uninterrupted series of victories before 1860. Although badly beaten by Governor
                    Morton and associated in the minds of many people with treason, the Democracy staged an early
                    revival in the election of Thomas A. Hendricks to the governorship in 1872. Possibly the Jacksonian
                    wing, which might have furnished liberal leadership, was even less popular than the party. But
                    Jacksonian principles became more popular in the person of "Blue Jeans" James D.
                    Williams, who was elected to succeed Hendricks. The lack of progressive leadership was also revealed
                    in the weakness in Indiana of the Granger movement, which laid the foundations for the state
                    regulation of railroads and utilities in four upper Mississippi Valley states,
                    but did not produce such results in Indiana. Little progressive legislation, aside from that
                    regarding education, was passed until near the end of the century. How much of this conservatism was
                    due to Morton's war on the Democracy and changes which occurred during the war can only be
                    estimated.
            Economic changes of the war period also tended to diminish the influence of the old Democratic areas.
                    The river interests were injured by the closure of the 
                        Mississippi
                    , the destruction of southern markets, and the competition of railroads. Serious
                    reductions were recorded in the building of steamboats, the sale of agricultural products to the
                    South, and the distribution of goods by merchants of river towns. In general, counties south of the 
                        Wisconsin
                     Moraine continued 
                  
                     55 Indiana, Report of the Adjutant General of the State
                                of Indiana (8 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Ind., 1865–1869), I, Appendix, 5.
               
                     to grow, but at a slower rate than northern and central
                    counties. The southern area in 1860 contained 45 per cent of the total population of the state, but
                    five years after the close of the war the percentage had declined to 39 per cent.
            On the positive side, the prosperity that accompanied the war and the rise of the new industrial
                    order paved the way for the acceptance of the changes. During the war the Republican administration
                    had enacted the National Banking Act of February 25, 1863, and repeatedly raised the tariff. Aided
                    by war contracts, the tariff, and railroad transportation, a new economy in which manufacturing
                    assumed an increasingly important role began to achieve significance. The new national banks, some
                    of which replaced former state banks, also became a part of the new order. Railroads enlarged the
                    markets that were available for Indiana farmers, while the feeding of the soldiers required vast
                    quantities of supplies from western states. High prices raised considerably the standard of living
                    in rural areas and small towns, where many new houses were built. These homes were in part made
                    possible by the prices received from raising wheat. Whatever remained of frontier self-sufficiency
                    disappeared along navigable streams and railroads. A less frugal way of life developed. Labor, too,
                    gained, for recruitment of men for the armies produced a shortage of manpower. Towns and cities grew
                    more rapidly.
            Although 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana's largest city, was not typical of other communities, its growth
                    illustrates the forces which were at work. Property values increased so rapidly as to astonish the
                    people of that time. Although business buildings and many houses were constructed, housing seemed
                    difficult for newcomers to find. By the end of 1862 a vast inflation had occurred. Prices were
                    higher than the elder citizens could remember, but they were to rise still more. Coins passed out of
                    circulation; "shin plasters" and greenbacks became current money.
            
                    The general condition of the country as well as the depreciation in the value of the currency had
                        by now [the end of 1862] vastly increased the cost of living. Prices had risen to unheard of
                        figures and the question of living costs had become a very serious matter to the most of the
                        people. Business men who were making more money than ever before might stand it, but there were
                        scores and hundreds whose  means had not increased much or
                        were fixed. On these fell a burden that could not be lightened and they were forced to economies
                        that often amounted to privation.56
               
                
            Nevertheless, luxurious living and ostentation increased. The theater was packed nightly. Great joy
                    over the victories at 
                        Gettysburg
                     and Vicksburg was expressed in bonfires, fireworks, and speeches. The city was often
                    brilliantly illuminated. The street railway was started by the spring of 1865; "the first
                    street-car… `with cushioned seats affording ample room for sixteen
                    passengers'" began to serve the public in August. Kingan & Company,
                    packers and millers, founded in July, 1863, gave added employment opportunities to the laborers of
                    the city.
            Although 
                        Evansville
                     was an important port on the Ohio River in the trade between North
                    and South, business "came to a virtual standstill and men were out of work"
                    shortly after the beginning of the war. Lack of the southern market and the closure of the 
                        Mississippi
                     seemed to be chiefly responsible. Recovery came quickly with the advance of the Union
                    armies, the letting of government contracts, and the use of the steamboats by the armed forces.
                    Braxton Bragg's invasion of 
                        Kentucky
                     was possibly a more serious blow to business than to the military. From early in 1863
                    to the end of the war, however, steamboat traffic on the Ohio River was
                    flourishing, great fortunes were made by wholesale merchants, the trade area of 
                        Evansville
                     tripled, and steamboat interests doubled. The experiences of other cities showed local
                    variations, but at the end of the war Indiana was less a rural state than at the beginning.
            A conflict which lasted four years and involved so many people, either directly as members of the
                    armed forces or indirectly as civilians who supported the armies, could not possibly have left the
                    nation unchanged. The early promises, demanded by the Democrats and so readily given by the
                    Republicans, that the nation should be preserved as it was appeared at the end of the war to
                    resemble the early notion that 
                  
                     56 John H. Holliday, 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 and the Civil War (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. IV,
                            No. 9; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Ind., 1911), 523–595, see 576 for quotation; Jeannette C. Nolan,
                                Hoosier City: The Story of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1943), 138–166.
               
                     the conflict would last only a few weeks. In addition to the
                    casualties, the handicap placed upon the Democratic party, the growth of cities, the increase in
                    manufacturing, and sectional fears and animosities had effected a breach in the mental and spiritual
                    life of the nation that could not be healed quickly. The Union had been preserved, but at a terrible
                    price! The questions of the nature of the Union and the right of secession had been answered.
                    Although the guns became silent and the soldiers came home, politicians were unable to make peace
                    with defeated fellow citizens for ten additional years. The reconstruction which followed the
                    fighting was not a separate process, but the time required to check the forces released by the
                    firing on Fort Sumter.
         
         
         
            Lieutenant Charles Larrabee's Account of the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , 1811
            Contributed and edited by Florence G. Watts⋆
            
            The sesquicentennial of the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     occurring this year lends special interest to a hitherto unpublished account of General
                    William Henry Harrison's expedition against the Indians and the resulting battle. Because
                    of widespread publicity given to the expedition's commander, General Harrison, in his
                    successful campaign for the presidency in 1840, few battles have received more popular notice. The
                    slogan "
                        Tippecanoe
                     and Tyler Too" was broadcast over the country through vast quantities of
                    broadsides, newspapers, songs, badges, and circulars. Even pieces of china were ornamented with log
                    cabin and hard cider motifs.1
            
            The Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     loomed large in the minds of the Indiana pioneers. In his The Battle of 
                            Tippecanoe
                        
                Alfred Pirtle noted that ten Indiana counties are named after participants in
                    the battle: Harrison, 
                  Spencer, Tipton, Bartholomew, Daviess
               , Floyd, Parke, 
                  Randolph, Warrick
               , and Dubois.2 (Pirtle correctly notes, however, that 
                        Harrison County
                     was organized before the battle.) Still another county was named 
                        Tippecanoe
                    .
            The framers of Indiana's constitution of 1851, who met about the time the pioneer era ended,
                    included in that document a section which stated: "It shall be the duty of the General
                    Assembly, to provide for the permanent enclosure and preservation of the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     Battle Ground."3 No other battle site received similar
                    consideration from the authors of the constitution of 1851.
            
               
                  ⋆ Mrs. Watts is a former president of the Indiana Historical
                        Society and a long-time student of Indiana history with particular interest in the 
                            Vincennes
                         area.
               
                  1 Examples of such articles are preserved in the William Henry Harrison
                        Mansion, 
                            Vincennes
                        , Indiana.
               
                  2 Alfred Pirtle, The Battle of 
                                Tippecanoe
                             (Filson Club Publications, No. 15; 
                            Louisville
                        , Ky., 1900), 78.
               
                  3 Charles Kettleborough (ed.), Constitution Making in
                            Indiana: A Source Book of Constitutional Documents with Historical Introduction and Critical
                            Notes (3 vols., Indiana Historical Collections, Vols. I, II, XVII; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Ind., 1916–1930), I, 367.
            
            
            In general, peace prevailed between Indians and settlers of the Old Northwest from the Battle of
                    Fallen Timbers, 1794, until the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    . Nevertheless, both whites and Indians suffered occasional loss of life and some theft
                    or destruction of property during this period. Between 1803 and 1809 Governor Harrison and his
                    associates obtained several cessions of land from the tribesmen. These cessions, principally located
                    in southern Indiana and in southern and central 
                        Illinois
                    , amounted to an area roughly equal to that of the present state of Indiana.
            Such loss of territory was alone sufficient cause for Indian alarm and resistance. The Indians had
                    continued to be debauched by the white man's liquor and diseases. They were also the
                    victims of a double standard by which Indians received scant justice from whites, while the latter
                    at times trespassed on Indian territory or committed crimes against red men with impunity. In
                    commenting upon the situation, Professor John D. Barnhart has concluded: "Ample cause for
                    war had been given the Indians by the people of the 
                        United States
                    ."4
            
            On the other hand, Governor Harrison, and apparently a majority of the settlers of Indiana Territory
                    as well, believed that the Indians had given just provocation for a military campaign against them.
                    Indiana Territory had a population of nearly twenty-five thousand in 1810, which showed promise of
                    rapid increase in the years immediately ahead. Much the greater portion of central Indiana and
                    virtually all of northern Indiana, however, yet belonged to the Indians.
            Harrison and other political leaders considered it essential that the area occupied by the Indians be
                    contracted so that Indiana could soon develop into a new member of the Union. Moreover, there were
                    continued complaints of Indian depredations against whites and frequent charges that the British
                    were supporting and instigating the Indians. As friction and hostility grew, insecurity increased
                    among the settlers.
            
               
                  4 John D. Barnhart and Donald F. Carmony, Indiana: From
                            Frontier to Industrial Commonwealth (4 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1954), I, 121. Barnhart gives a concise general account of the 
                            Tippecanoe
                         campaign and its background in ibid., 120–134.
            
            
            No further cessions were obtained from the Indians following the Treaty of 
                        Fort Wayne
                     in 1809 until after the War of 1812. Following the Treaty of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , however, Harrison requested authorization from the federal government to obtain
                    additional land and also asked for permission to erect a new fort to guard 
                        Vincennes
                     from Indian attack. President 
                        Madison
                     and Secretary of War William Eustis exercised a restraining hand on Harrison concerning
                    these and related objectives.5
            
            Governor Harrison was in frequent communication with the Shawnee brothers, Tecumseh and the Prophet,
                    for several years preceding the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     through letters, messengers, and conferences. The Prophet conferred with Harrison at 
                        Vincennes
                     in 1808 and 1809, while Tecumseh met with him in 1810 and 1811, but these
                    "summit" conferences failed to preserve the peace. During July of 1811 Secretary
                    Eustis ordered the Fourth 
                        United States
                     Infantry Regiment to proceed down the 
                        Ohio
                     from 
                        Pittsburgh
                    . The regiment was placed under Harrison's command, and the governor was
                    authorized to attack if the Indians commenced hostilities. The Secretary of War, however, urged
                    moderation and expressed the hope that the regiment would not be needed in Indiana.6 During late July and early August, Tecumseh was in 
                        Vincennes
                     for his second annual conference with Harrison. On August 5 he left 
                        Vincennes
                     for the South, apparently to seek aid from southern Indians. On September 26
                    Harrison's expedition marched northward. The army spent most of October building Fort
                    Harrison, then proceeded up the 
                        Wabash
                     to Prophetstown, where the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     ensued on November 7.
            The five letters which follow recount military preparations and the movement of troops during the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     campaign. They were written by Lieutenant Charles Larrabee during or soon after the
                    campaign. They were probably based on a journal or daily notes, in view of their detailed content.
                    The initial letter, written at 
                        Vincennes
                     under date of September 20, 1811, indicates that preparations for the 
                  
                     5
                            Ibid., 127–128. Relevant letters are available in Logan Esarey
                            (ed.), Governors Messages and Letters (3 vols., Indiana
                                Historical Collections, Vols. VII, IX, XII; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Ind., 1922–1924), I, passim.
                  
                  
                     6 Esarey, Governors Messages and Letters, I,
                            535–537.
               
                     expedition were then virtually completed. The second letter,
                    dated at Fort 
                        Knox
                    , "3 miles from 
                        Vincennes
                    ," December 11, 1811, is mainly devoted to a discussion of the difficulties and
                    perils of fighting Indians. These letters are generous in their praise of General Harrison. A third,
                    possibly written in December of 1811 or January of 1812, is quite brief and largely personal in its
                    content.
            The fourth, written at Fort 
                        Knox
                     under date of February 5, 1812, is the longest and most informative of the letters. It
                    describes the movement of the Fourth 
                        United States
                     Infantry under Colonel John P. Boyd7 from 
                        Pittsburgh
                     down the 
                        Ohio
                     and thence up the 
                        Wabash
                     to 
                        Vincennes
                     during August and September, 1811. It offers a detailed account of the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     expedition with emphasis on the erection of Fort Harrison, and then recounts the
                    circumstances preceding, during, and following the actual battle. In general, it is matter-of-fact,
                    describing rather than evaluating what happened. The final letter notes the controversy, pro and
                    con, regarding the campaign and battle—especially with respect to Harrison's
                    role therein—but it asks that the writer not be involved in that controversy.8 An ominous remark in 
                  
                     7 John Parker Boyd, of 
                                Massachusetts
                            , became a colonel in the Fourth 
                                United States
                             Infantry, October 7, 1808. He became brigadier general during the War of 1812
                            and was honorably discharged from the army in 1815. Boyd died in 1830. Francis B. Heitman,
                                Historical Register and Dictionary of the 
                                    United States
                                 Army, from Its Organization, September 29, 1789, to March 2, 1903 (2
                            vols., 
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1903), I, 236. In this and subsequent notes in which Heitman alone is
                            cited, information given is taken exclusively from Heitman.
                  
                     8 The conduct of the Battle of 
                                Tippecanoe
                             was a topic of much discussion at 
                                Vincennes
                             and elsewhere. Generous commendation of Harrison was mingled with vigorous
                            criticism of him. Harrison's critics were inclined to give much credit to Colonel
                            Boyd and the regulars under his immediate direction for the "victory" at 
                                Tippecanoe
                            . Boyd criticized the militia, which was staunchly defended by Editor Elihu
                            Stout, of the 
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Western Sun. Before the controversy subsided, Boyd attacked Stout in the
                            latter's newspaper office. Comments, documents, and citations in Robert S. Lambert,
                            "The Conduct of the Militia at 
                                Tippecanoe
                            : Elihu Stout's Controversy with Colonel John P. Boyd, January,
                            1812," Indiana Magazine of History, LI (September, 1955),
                            237–250, emphasizes the role and status of Boyd in this discussion. Larrabee, a
                            lieutenant in the Fourth 
                                United States
                             Infantry under Boyd's command, significantly expresses neither
                            approval nor disapproval of Colonel Boyd in the letters published below. Larrabee does,
                            however, express admiration of Harrison in some of these letters as well as in a letter to
                            Moses Dawson, in which he commends Harrison's training, discipline, and handling of
                            the troops on the way to and at the battle. See Larrabee to [Moses] Dawson, October 13,
                            1823, in Esarey, Governors Messages and Letters, I,
                        713–714.
               
                     the concluding letter suggests that the author expected to
                    proceed to 
                        Detroit
                     by spring. The opening portion of the fifth letter indicates that it and the fourth
                    were apparently mailed together.
            The writer, Charles Larrabee, and his cousin, Adam Larrabee, to whom the letters were directed, were
                    apparently natives of Windham, 
                        Connecticut
                    . According to Heitman, Charles Larrabee was born in 1782 and commissioned a second
                    lieutenant of light dragoons June 13, 1808. He became a first lieutenant of the Fourth 
                        United States
                     Infantry on June 12, 1809, and was promoted to captain, September 12, 1812. He was
                    brevetted as a major on August 9, 1812, for gallant conduct in the Battle of Brownstown in which he
                    lost his left arm. He thereafter served in various regiments of 
                        United States
                     Infantry until his resignation April 7, 1825. He died in 1862.9 A
                    great-granddaughter of Adam Larrabee indicates that Charles was the son of John Larrabee; that in
                    1819 he married Elizabeth Hathaway, by whom he had two children, Charles H. and Sarah (Beardsley);
                    and that he died at 
                  Hartford, Connecticut
               , leaving his entire estate for the establishment
                    of a home for indigent women.10 Two letters which Charles Larrabee wrote Lyman
                    C. Draper in the 1850's make clear that the ex-soldier was at that time preoccupied with
                    certain ideas regarding religious belief.11
            
            Adam Larrabee was a cousin of Charles, as the latter indicates in closing his second letter. Adam
                    entered the 
                        United States
                     Military Academy in January, 1808, and graduated third in his class in March, 1811. His
                    initial military appointment was as second lieutenant of light artillery in 1811, and he progressed
                    to the rank of captain in 1814. He was honorably discharged in June, 1815, and died in 1869.12
            
            
               
                  9 Heitman, Historical Register and Dictionary of the 
                                United States
                             Army, I, 616.
               
                  10 Mrs. Mary Larrabee Utley, Eau Claire, Wis., to Mrs. Florence G. Watts,
                        March 6, 1961.
               
                  11 Larrabee to Draper, March 30, 1854; Larrabee to Secretary of the 
                            Wisconsin
                         State Historical Society [Draper], September 2, 1858. Both letters are in the Draper-
                            Wisconsin
                         Historical Society Correspondence, which is preserved in the Division of Maps and
                        Manuscripts at the 
                            Wisconsin
                         Historical Society, 
                            Madison
                        .
               
                  12 Heitman, Historical Register and Dictionary of the 
                                United States
                             Army, I, 616.
            
            
            The Larrabee letters are preserved in the Draper Collection of the State Historical Society of
                            
                  Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin
               .
                    Charles H. Larrabee, son of the author of the letters, and Lyman C. Draper were students together at
                    the Literary and Theological Institute at 
                  Granville,
                            Ohio
               , later Denison University.
                    Subsequently Draper and Charles H. farmed together in 
                        Mississippi
                    . Larrabee later moved to 
                        Wisconsin
                    , where he became a judge and a congressman. When the State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                     was reorganized in the 1850's, Larrabee was one of its reorganizers. He
                    successfully urged that Draper be made the executive officer of the society. Doubtless Larrabee
                    called Draper's attention to the letters his father had written about the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     campaign.13 In 1854 the elder Larrabee was made an honorary member
                    of the State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , much to his pleasure and satisfaction.14
            
            Acknowledgment is given to Miss Josephine L. Harper, Manuscripts Librarian, State Historical Society
                    of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , for permission to publish these five letters regarding the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     campaign. No other letters by Larrabee about the campaign have been located. Generally
                    speaking, these letters confirm basic information available in previously published eyewitness
                    accounts of the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     campaign and battle.15
            
            
               
                  13 For the association and relationship between Draper and Charles H.
                        Larrabee, son of the writer of these letters, see Collections of the State
                            Historical Society of 
                                Wisconsin
                            
                   (
                            Madison
                        , Wis.), I, (reprint, 1903), xv-xx, and William B. Hesseltine, Pioneer's Mission: The Story of Lyman Copeland Draper (
                            Madison
                        , Wis., 1954), 16, 37, 89–90, 220, et passim.
               
               
                  14 Larrabee to Draper, March 30, 1854, Draper-
                            Wisconsin
                         Historical Society Correspondence.
               
                  15 Previously published eyewitness accounts of the battle are: [John 
                            Tipton
                        ], "Account of Battle of 
                            Tippecanoe
                        , September, 1833," in Nellie Armstrong Robertson and Dorothy Riker (eds.),
                            The John 
                                Tipton
                             Papers (3 vols., Indiana Historical Collections, Vols.
                        XXIV, XXV, XXVI; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Ind., 1942), II, 825–833; Isaac Naylor, "The Battle of 
                            Tippecanoe
                        ," Indiana Magazine of History, II (December, 1906),
                        163–169; Adam Walker, "A Journal of Two Campaigns of the Fourth Regiment of
                        U.S. Infantry in the 
                            Michigan
                         and Indiana Territories…" in Esarey, Governors
                            Messages and Letters, I, 693–710; J. Wesley Whickar,
                        "Shabonee's Account of 
                            Tippecanoe
                        ," Indiana Magazine of History, XVII (December, 1921),
                        353–363. See also Harrison to Secretary of War, November 18, 1811, Esarey, Governors Messages and Letters, I, 618–630.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Vincennes
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Sept. 20th 1811⋆
                           
                                
                        Sir
                        In my former letter written at 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                     I inform4 you of Governor Harrison ordering Colo
                                    Boyds detachment to 
                                        Vincennes
                                    / or otherwise ordered by the Honorable secretary of war [William
                                    Eustis]/ the troops first Proceedd down the river ohio to 
                                        New Port
                                        Kentucky
                                    ,1 and there received the orders of Govor Harrison
                                    to continue down the Ohio River to the mouth of the wabash, and
                                    which to asscend to vincennes all of which has been executed/ at some more leuseure
                                    moment I will give a more perticular account of our march from 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                     to this Place/ an expidition is now taking place with Colo Boyds
                                    detachment of US. troops, together with 900 hundred Melitia a part of which is light
                                    hors man who have vollonteered them self to the assistance of the Govor/ this
                                    expidition is against the tribes of Indians who are under the prophet and tecumcy
                                    the most of the officers have furnished themself with pistoole, and all with
                                        groundd swords and Dirks, reddy for an angagement, I think
                                    it may terminate without bloodshed, but no knowing till after the end of the
                                    expedition
                        a fort is to be built about one hundred 50 miles up the 
                                        Wabash
                                     from this at which place the whole force is to march,2 and the whole force for this expedition amount to 12 or 13 hundred fiteing
                                    men/ I expect that some part of 
                              
                                            
                                    ⋆ In transcribing these letters, original
                                                spelling has been retained and original punctuation followed as closely
                                                as possible. It is, however, very difficult to distinguish between
                                                Larrabee's commas and the diagonal marks he often used instead
                                                of a period. In these doubtful cases whichever mark that is proper
                                                grammatically has been used. Doubtful capital letters were interpreted
                                                according to the judgment of the eye. All superior letters have been
                                                brought down to the line except for those used to form old style
                                                contractions of words ending in "ed." A few minor
                                                modifications of spacing within the letters were necessary in making
                                                handwritten documents conform to the printed page.
                                            The letters which follow are in the Draper Collection, Frontier Wars
                                                Manuscripts, items 5U193, 5U194, 5U1942, 9U1, and
                                                9U2, respectively. As indicated in the Introduction, the Draper
                                                Collection is at the State Historical Society of 
                                       Wisconsin, Madison
                                    .
                                        
                              
                                 1 Opposite 
                                                Cincinnati
                                            , as indicated in Larrabee's letter of February 5,
                                            1812. See pp. 235–236.
                              
                                 2 Apparently Larrabee mistakenly cites the estimated
                                            distance between 
                                                Vincennes
                                             and Prophetstown, rather than that between 
                                                Vincennes
                                             and the site on which Fort Harrison was erected. In one of
                                            these letters (see p. 234) Larrabee indicates the distance from 
                                                Vincennes
                                             to Fort Harrison as sixty miles, while seventy miles is
                                            suggested in another letter (see p. 238). Depending upon the route followed,
                                            the distance would be between sixty and seventy miles.
                           
                                     the 4th Infantry will be ordered to remain at
                                    this new fort that is to be built at the above mentioned place/ butt it is wholly
                                    uncerting where the whole or part of Colo Boyds detachment remains this winter/ time
                                    and tide will bring forth./ the Governor will Command in person/and is found to be a
                                    firm man and a verry good displenarian/and acquainted with the Indian fiteing, which
                                    is different from all others/ this morning the order for the troops to march was
                                    communiateted and to be in rediness for the same and to march to morrow/ I shall
                                    wright you the first opportunity/ please to inform all my friends where I am/ and do
                                    wright and direct your letter to this place Indiana territory/ and Can only say good
                                    by/ for I proceed for the fate of war and God bless you
                        
                                    C Larrabee Lieut
                                
                        Lt A. Larrabee
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Fort 
                                    Knox
                                  3 miles from 
                                    Vincennes
                                 
                                 3
                              
                           
                                    December 11th 1811
                                
                        Dear Sir
                        I this day recevd your letter and read the same with pleasure,
                                    and immediately commence writting this the multiplisity of returns that is required
                                    of a Commdg officer of a Company at the close of this month, deprives me of time
                                    sufficient to give you a detail of the movements of the 4th Regt from 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                    , down to the present time, together with the movements of the army
                                    under Govenor Harrison/ (who in my opinion is as good a General and a soldier as the
                                    US affords) his official letter to the secretary of war will inform respecting the
                                    battle at the Tip Cannoeu with the Prophetts adhereants,4 you
                                    speak light of battles with indians I agree so far with you as respects the opinion
                                    of the people, but beg leave to differ otherwise/ I say that an american army
                                    deserves more credit in fighting indians than any other nation in the world/ in the
                                    first place an army has to under go thribble the fatigue marching against indians,
                                    than that could possible occur marching against an 
                              
                                 3 Fort 
                                                Knox
                                             was located about three miles north of 
                                                Vincennes
                                             on on the east bank of the 
                                                Wabash
                                            .
                              
                                 4 Doubtless a reference to Harrison's letter
                                            to Secretary of War Eustis, November 18, 1811, published in Logan Esarey
                                            (ed.), Governors Messages and Letters (3 vols., Indiana Historical Collections, Vols., VII, IX, XII; 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , Ind., 1922–1924), I, 618–630.
                           
                                     army under disipline/ what is the result of
                                    prisoners taken by indians/ (the army where [were] correctly informed before thay
                                    left Fort Harrison) that the prophet was determined to burn a live all prisoners/ in
                                    fine nothing els[e] is expected but a painful and tormenting death/ for such has
                                    been their practice from time immemorial/ thank god they had not the pleusure of
                                    taken any of the army alive/ at the battle the Govor or the Commander of the army,
                                    sent one of the Militia Soldiers to the prophets town when at Fort Harrison, the
                                    soldier was found with his head of[f] in one of the houses/ when the army had drove
                                    the indians out of town [it was] supposed thay had not time to attend to any other
                                    death/ in fighting an english or French army or where some mercy is shown on both
                                    sides as respects prisoners, there is some hope remaining if beten, but with indians
                                    none ever has been granted/ now Sir if a army that has marched 150 miles from home
                                    and in the wilderness all the way and where no resort for any assistance to the army
                                    Could be had in case thay where beten short of 280 miles if the army had to flee or
                                    where beten by the indians 
                                        Vincennes
                                     would not have been a place of safety, nor nothing short of 
                                        Louisville
                                     at the falls of the ohio vincennes is 130 miles in the wilderness so
                                    called and the army fought the battle 150 miles still further in the desart, and the
                                    whole western wourld the indians are well acquainted with, so that victory, or a
                                    death more dreadful than men can describe must have been the result of Govor
                                    Harrisons army the former was obtained for I am here/ now Sir I had much rather have
                                    march[ed] 280 miles into an enemies country and faught a regular force/ (and where
                                    honor would be given if victory obtained/) than have performed what you are all
                                    readdy informed of/ in fiteing indians their is no discharge of death but victory.
                                    in fiteing civilised Nations their is two resorts victory or exchange of prisoners/
                                    death on the field of battle is glourious, for nothing ever appeared more so to me
                                    than the brother soldiers that where buried on the battle ground/ I am sensable thet
                                    it is the opinion of most [of] the people in the U.S. that no honor is to be
                                    attached to indian fiteing but I beg leave to disagree with all such, and believe if
                                    thay weigh the subject in its proper scale thay would judge different, (so this
                                    subject must end half finished) for want of 
                                    time/ as to the Girls in this part of the wourld, of which you call of me to mention
                                    one of the Capt of the army got leave of absence from the expidition at Fort
                                    Harrison on account of Cowardice, and returned to 
                                        Vincennes
                                     the Girls offered to exchange dress with him and take his sword and
                                    fill his place in the army/ I must end for it is 11 oclock at night and the paper
                                    most gone/ with expresing my anxciety for your recovery to health and may peace and
                                    plenty attend all my relations & friends in Windham/ I am well and wish to
                                    see new Englang verry much/ my best respects to all that your pleasant Circul
                                    surrounds at leasure I intend to give you a letter enclosing two sheets of pap[er]
                                    wholly written and am your most obdt servt
                        
                                    C Larrabee Lieut.
                                
                        to my Cousin A Larrabee Lieut I have written doubble about indian fiteing
                                    I should have done had I known the opinion on that subject of the people of the
                                    U.S.G. I contend thay are mistaken [Larrabee wrote the preceding two sentences
                                    upside down at the top of his letter. Since they were evidently written as an
                                    afterthought, they have been placed at the end of the letter here.]
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    [Probably written January, 1812]
                                
                        Sir I addrest you in July at 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                     and directed yours to 
                                        New York
                                     and that your first letter that has reached me is dated Nover 4th at
                                    windham a long space of time. I suppos your mother is Maloncolly in consequence of
                                    one of the weddings you informed me of, but I hope the widdo Lothrop &
                                    cousin Julia will support all delinquents on that subject/ the officers are all
                                    satisfied with seeing the western wourld and would be glad to return to the atlantic 
                                        United States
                                    / 
                                        Vincennes
                                     is much such a place as you discribed West Point to me, but the troops
                                    have tolerable quarters and without doubt will spend the winter hear/ I have
                                    mentioned Fort Harrison to you and would inform that it is 60 miles above this up
                                    the wabash river and built by the army while on the expidition heretofore mentioned,
                                    and Capt Snelling5 is left their with 
                              
                                 5 Josiah Snelling, a captain in the Fourth 
                                                United States
                                             Infantry. Francis B. Heitman, Historical Register
                                                and Dictionary of the 
                                                    United States
                                                 Army, from Its Organization, September 29, 1789, to March
                                                2, 1903 (2 vols., 
                                                Washington
                                            , D.C., 1903), I, 906.
                           
                                     his company it [is] built on the ground where
                                    the Illenois indians had a battle/6 success attend you aman
                        
                                    C Larrabee Lieut
                                
                        A Larrabee Lieut
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Fort Knox
                                    Vincennes
                                  Indiana Territory
                           
                                    Feby 5th 1812
                                
                        Sir—
                        Informing you in my last letter, That I would give you in my next a daily detail of
                                    the movements of that part of the 4th U.S.I, in which I have been stationed with
                                    since their departure from 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                    , I find to contain all the daily movements and remarks it will occupy 8
                                    or 10 sheets of paper, and think it best to condence this letter in lumping the
                                    performances from time to time as the [ca]se may be, however if this is not
                                    satisfactory, you shall have my promis fulfiled &c— Capt Piatt7 of the 2nd U.S.I arrived at 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                     23rd of July 1811 from the War office, with orders to Coll Boyd, to
                                    proceed with his detachment of the 4th Infy, to the falls of the ohio, and their
                                    wait the orders of Govr Harrison/ if not wanted in the Indiana Territory, he was to
                                    ascend the ohio as far, as 
                                        New Port
                                        Kentucky
                                    , for winter quarters/ immediately on this Capt Piatt and Lieut
                                        Hawkins8 was dispatched to the falls, to provide means to
                                    transport the baggage by land to 
                                        Vincennes
                                     &/ a day or two after another order was received from the war
                                    office, ordering Coll Boyd to stop at 
                                        New Port
                                    , at the same time all posible prepperrations whare making, to descend
                                    the ohio river/ Most of the detachment where pleased for thay where eager for actual
                                    service— 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                     Fort 
                                        Fayette
                                     Augt. 2nd 1811 at 9 oclock a.m, the troops where all on board of the
                                    boats, and rowed of[f] from the shore at Fort 
                                        Fayette
                                    , and commenced descending the river, and arrived the 9th inst. at the
                                    garrison at 
                                        New Port
                                    / alls well, (is the sentry signal)9
                                    
                              
                                 6 According to tradition, the site on which Fort
                                            Harrison was erected had been the scene of Indian fighting. It was sometimes
                                            referred to as the site of the "Battle des 
                                                Illinois
                                            ."
                              
                                 7 William Piatt, a captain in the Second 
                                                United States
                                             Infantry. During the War of 1812 he served at various ranks in
                                            the quartermaster service and apparently was already engaged in such work in
                                            1811. Heitman, Historical Register and Dictionary of the 
                                                    United States
                                                 Army, I, 790.
                              
                                 8 Abraham Hawkins, a first lieutenant in the Fourth 
                                                United States
                                             Infantry. Ibid., 512.
                              
                                 9 The reader will note that Larrabee makes frequent
                                            use of the sentry signal, "alls well," in ending his
                                            remarks about particular days.
                           
                                     and pleasent time/ a number of pleasent and
                                    flourishing Towns where pasted [passed] as well as 524 miles of the pleasent banks
                                    of the ohio/ this garrison will quarter about 400 troops/ opposite this is 
                                        Cincinnati
                                     (ohio) it is handsomely situated on a first and second bank of the ohio
                                    river/ it is a flourishing town [which] has a rich level and well settled country
                                    round it/ it contains about 400 dwellings, industry of every kind being duly
                                    encouraged by its citisens/ all seem to center in a favorable point of expectation,
                                    that 
                                        Cincinnati
                                     and the country around it, must one day become rich and verey populous/ 
                                        New Port
                                     is a newly laid out town it has a fine ajacent country/ the 11th inst
                                    an express was sent to Capt Piatt informing him of the second order from the war
                                    office/ 21st inst the express arrived from the falls the order of Govor Harrisons
                                    was read, ordering the troops to proceed down to Louisvill/ in the mean time Lieut
                                    Hawkins was dispatched by land to 
                                        Vincennes
                                    , to inform the Govor the perticculars of the detachment, and of the
                                    second order of the Secretarys all prepperrations are making for actual service/ an
                                    expedition the 22nd inst is sent to 
                                        Lexington
                                     80 miles after powder/ all at work in preparing to descend the river/
                                    time has been pasted verry pleasantly here in visiting the inhabitants/ and alls
                                    well/ 30th inst orders where isued that the troops would embark, tomorrow and
                                    proceed down the river/ 31st inst at 6 oclock a.m Lieut Hawkins arrived from 
                                        Vincennes
                                    , with orders for this detachment to descend the ohio river to the mouth
                                    of the wabash and ascend to 
                                        Vincennes
                                    / at 8 oclock a.m the troops commenced descending the river/ all well/
                                    Sept 3rd at 7 oclock a.m rowed up to the right hand shore, at Jefferson[ville]
                                    Indiana T./ opposite is Louisvill (K) both situated just above the falls of the
                                    ohio/ and 705 miles of the pleasent banks of the ohio have been pasted/ the land
                                    from 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                     to the falls, is excellent and well timbered/ the pleasure of seeing
                                    Govo H Major Floyd10 and Judge Taylor11 the
                                    Govors 
                              
                                 10 George Rogers Clark Floyd, of 
                                                Kentucky
                                            , a major in the Fourth 
                                                United States
                                             Infantry. Heitman, Historical Register and
                                                Dictionary of the 
                                                    United States
                                                 Army, I, 426.
                              
                                 11 Waller Taylor, native of 
                                                Virginia
                                            , came to 
                                                Vincennes
                                             in 1804. He was territorial judge, 1806–1816, and
                                            represented Indiana in the 
                                                United States
                                             Senate, 1816–1825. Taylor served as major and
                                            aide-de-camp to Harrison in the 
                                                Tippecanoe
                                             campaign. Nellie Armstrong Robertson and Dorothy Riker (eds.),
                                                The John 
                                                    Tipton
                                                 Papers (3 vols., Indiana Historical
                                                Collections, Vols. XXIV, XXV, XXVI; 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , Ind., 1942), I, 113n.
                           
                                     eaid [aide], was had at Jeffersonvill/ the
                                    detachment have been employed from the 3rd to the 5th inst at noon, in obtaining the
                                    foot of the falls getting provision and stores/ the Govo Coll Boyd Major Floyd Judge
                                    Taylor and Capt Piatt, proceed to 
                                        Vincennes
                                     by land/12 at $1/2 past 1 oclock P.M the
                                    4th Infy under the command of Lieut Coll Miller13 of the 5th
                                    U.S.I, commenced descending the ohio river for the Mouth of the wabash/ alls well/
                                    arrived at the Mouth of the wabash the 10th inst at $1/2 after 1 oclock
                                    P.M alls well, and now 317 miles further has the banks of the ohio been pasted,
                                    which makes 1022/ there is not so much land below as above the falls/ at 4 oclock
                                    P.M commenced ascending the 
                                        Wabash
                                    , arrived at 
                                        Vincennes
                                     the 19th inst at night alls well/ it was found verry difficult in
                                    ascending the wabash, on account of the low state of the water/ their whare a number
                                    of rapids, which employed some of the officers and most of the men, overboard, in
                                    drawing the boats over them/ 20th inst the detachment formed their encampment on a
                                    plain nigh town/ the Militia of the Territory and volunteers from 
                                        Kentucky
                                    , have and are collecting here, for an expedition, (with this detachment
                                    4th Infy) against the indians/ from the 19th to the 26th inst the whole army where
                                    preparing for the contemplated expedition/ their appears to be a defect in the
                                    contractors department, which always will be the case untill it is founded on furmer
                                    and better regulations/ the Govor or the commander of the army, reviewed the 22nd
                                    inst, the whole number of troops present amounting to about 1200 aggregate, to it
                                    350 U.S.I, 200 Dragoons, 200 mounted riflemen and 450 Militia/14
                                    on the 23rd inst the Govor took command of the army in person, formed them in the
                                    order thay where to March while on the expedition, and carried 
                              
                                 12 Here, as elsewhere, the land route between 
                                                Louisville
                                             and vicinity to 
                                                Vincennes
                                             which Larrabee mentions is probably that of the oft-traveled
                                            Buffalo Trace between these two points. 
                                                United States
                                             Highway 150 roughly follows this trail.
                              
                                 13 James Miller, a lieutenant colonel in the Fifth 
                                                United States
                                             Infantry. Heitman, Historical Register and
                                                Dictionary of the 
                                                    United States
                                                 Army, I, 710.
                              
                                 14 Various figures as to the numbers and composition
                                            of Harrison's forces in the 
                                                Tippecanoe
                                             campaign have been given. John D. Barnhart indicates that the
                                            total was less than 1,000 men. Of these, 345 belonged to the Fourth
                                            Regiment, 
                                                United States
                                             Regulars; 415 to the Indiana militia; 120 to the mounted
                                            militia; 84 to the mounted riflemen; and 13 served as scouts and spies. See
                                            John D. Barnhart and Donald F. Carmony, Indiana: from Frontier
                                                to Industrial Commonwealth (4 vols., 
                                                New York
                                            , 1954), I, 130, 130n.
                           
                                     them through the Manouvers of indian warfare/
                                    all well/ at 8 oclock am the 26th inst the army commenced their March on the
                                    expedition which leads up the wabash, and now actual service commences/ scearce a
                                    row of sober faces is to be seen with 4th Infy on account of being now pleased all
                                    the heavey baggage goues by water, light in waggons/ capt Spencers15 company of Mounted rifleman go on the west side of the wabash, to guard the
                                    boats/ after the March of 7 days through the worlds wild wilderness the army arrived
                                    the 2nd of Oct, at a place (70 miles from V.) where it is said the Illenois indians
                                    had a battle in times of old date/ this March has been through a delightful wild
                                    country finely timbered, extensive and large Prairies, which look more like an old
                                    then [than] new country/ thay are as clear of trees roots or brush as any Mooing
                                    [mowing?] lot in the Yankee 
                                        United States
                                     is/ the soil is as rich in its wild state, as the Mooing lot is in its
                                    artificial/ the country is so level that when the traveler enters the prairie from
                                    the woods, he beholds with astonishment a cleared piece of land extending from 6 to
                                    15 miles in leangth from 1 to 7 in breadth clothed with wild grass which makes good
                                    hay for stock cattle/ thay lay generally from 1 to 3 miles from the river and
                                    parellel thereto, but in some instances extend to the rivers bank/16 3rd inst at $1/2 after 7 oclock a.m the whole army whare drawn
                                    up in solid collums, and a speech was delivered by the commander in chief informing
                                    that a Fort would be built here, and every necessary that could be furnished the
                                    sick and the troops at large, should now be attended too/ this encampment is
                                    pleasently situated on a second bank of the wabash river, east side, and in a fine
                                    grove which extends east from the river about 400 yards, and their meets a
                                    delightful prairie, extending up and down the river 10 miles and 3 miles wide/ the
                                    army remained in this encampment, (which is called 
                              
                                 15 Spier 
                                                Spencer
                                             came to Indiana from 
                                                Kentucky
                                            . After living at 
                                                Vincennes
                                             for a while, he moved to Corydon in 1808. In that year he
                                            became sheriff of 
                                                Harrison County
                                            , and two years later he was made a captain in the 
                                                Harrison County
                                             militia. Robertson and Riker, 
                                    
                                                    Tipton
                                                 Papers, I, 62n. 
                                                Spencer
                                             was killed during the Battle of 
                                                Tippecanoe
                                            .
                              
                                 16 Such sights of land in Indiana and neighboring
                                            states sometimes caused soldiers to settle subsequently in areas they had
                                            traversed while in military service. For a more extended description of the
                                            land in the vicinity of 
                                                Vincennes
                                             by another New Englander, see Chase C. Mooney (ed.),
                                            "From 
                                                Old Vincennes
                                            , 1815," Indiana Magazine of History,
                                            LVII (June, 1961), 141–154.
                           
                                     camp Battalle des Illenois) till the 29th inst
                                    during which time thay where employed in building a fort, and preparing to extend
                                    the march to the prophetstown, which is 80 miles further in the wilderness at 8
                                    oclock am the 4th inst the fatigue party commenced geathering the Meterials to build
                                    a stockade fort with/ their was caught in the river here a cat fish which weighed
                                    122 pounds, a vast number of smaller sise caught/ the Militia are excellent hunters,
                                    and are seen coming into camp with deer and honey, both of which this part of the
                                    wourld abounds in/ the army are well supplyed with these blessings, but are much in
                                    want of vegetables/ the boats ordered here arrived safe/ the grass from the prairies
                                    afforded forage for the army dureing their whole expedition/ alls well/ Battalle des
                                    Illenois Oct 10th at 10 minuetes after 8 oclock at night a sentry was shot through
                                    his thigh, by an indian as proved afterwards/ the army where refreshing themself at
                                    this time, but heard the alarm, and in 25 seconds where paraded in the line of
                                    encampment, which was the line of battle for a night attack/ a party of Mounted
                                    rifleman and dragoons where instantly sent in to the woods (and outside of the
                                    sentrys) for several times/ all returned without seeing any indians/17 the whole army continued under arms till 12 oclock at night then two
                                    thirds retired to rest/ at daybreak was the time supposed the indians would attack
                                    the army, (as that time always had been their practice) it was the constant practice
                                    of the army to rise before the least appearance of daybrack, and prepar[e] to parade
                                    for battle, (if attackd) at the first appearance of light from
                                    the east, the reveille was beaten, at which time the whole army paraded in the line
                                    of encampment/ when light anough to see a person 150 rods, thay where dismissed/ at
                                    all other times while here, the troops where at work or attending to the wants (in
                                    part) of Mankind the sick are on the gaining hand/ alls well/ 19th inst the army
                                    where paraded and a speech was delivered by the commander in chief, relitive to
                                    reduceing the ration of flour, from 18 to 12 ounces, this being necessary in
                                    consequence of the army, having to move towards the Prophets town & further
                                    from home, and the difficulty the contractor 
                              
                                 17 The army was dogged and watched by Indian scouts,
                                            of whom Shabonee was one. Shabonee's account of the 
                                                Tippecanoe
                                             campaign is cited in note 15 of the Introduction.
                           
                                     has in furnishing full supply, and that the
                                    expedition might not fail, for which the troops whare drawn from their homes for/
                                    the army where in such high sperrits, that a few inspireing words from their able
                                    commander was sufficient to enspire the troops above all difficulties that was
                                    posible to meet them/ the contractor has considerable fault found with him, but in
                                    taking into consideration he has to transport the most of the provisions 600 miles,
                                    it is some justification for partial failures/ the mail arrived/ Much is said about
                                    a british fleet in the U.S waters, and of this army on an expedition against the
                                    indians/ things appear dubious, and nothing but the firmness of the people will make
                                    it otherwise, and declaring that America shall be independant till rolling years
                                    shall cease to move/ a number of different tribes of indians where here, at
                                    different times, and held councils with the Govor thay all appeared to be friendly,
                                    (but want good looking to) and said thay did not intend to join the prophet, but had
                                    tried to dissuade him and his party not to go to war against the white people/ some
                                    of them where at the prophets town when the three indians returned, that where at
                                    this encampment the 10th day inst, at night, and one of them informed the prophet
                                    that he shot one of Govor Hs white warriors, and that the prophet wished all the
                                    indians to join him for he was determined to fight the white people/ the sick are on
                                    the gaining hand/ an express is sent to K[entucky] after reinforcements/ alls well/
                                    27th inst the Fort being about completed the order for the march 29th inst was
                                    communicated/ the 28th is a day of general prepperation/ a reinforcement of 30 men
                                    arrive and boats with provision/ the army in high sperrits and alls well/ 29th inst
                                    at 11 oclock a m the army took up their march for the prophets town, (called
                                    Tippacanoe) all in good soldierlike sperrits leaveing behind 100 troops to guard
                                    Fort Harrison and its stores/ the army is not so large as when it left 
                                        Vincennes
                                    , for a number of the Militia had been discharged/ two boats is ordered
                                    up the wabash at the same time with provision/ 31st inst meet the boats 25 miles up
                                    the river, the army crossed to the west side, the same side of Tippacanoe/ here the
                                    army where joined by 60 volunteers under the command of Major Welles/18 alls well/ Novr 1st at 7 oclock a m the army 
                              
                                 18 Samuel Wells, a major of a rifle battalion in the 
                                                Kentucky
                                             Volunteers. Heitman, Historical Register and
                                                Dictionary of the 
                                                    United States
                                                 Army, I, 1018.
                           
                                     marched at 3 oclock P M, struck the wabash
                                    about 12 miles higher the boats arrived/ all well/ the 2nd inst a block-hous[e] was
                                    built, provision for the troops on their return was put into it, as well as all
                                    heavey baggage a sergeants guard was left to protect the hous and boats/ at 3 oclock
                                    P.M an express arrived informed that the contractors boat ordered here, had been
                                    attack 4 miles above Fort H[arrison], fired upon one man killed/ a party who had
                                    been out ahunting, informed that thay had seen large trails in the prairie, the
                                    appearance of indians going toward 
                                        Vincennes
                                    / scouting parties where sent out to examin[e], returned with
                                    information, that the trails soon took another cource/ an express was sent to
                                    v[incennes]/ alls well 3rd inst at sunrise the march commenced towards Tippicanoe,
                                    and continued unmolested the 3rd 4th and 5th insts, and encamped the last day at
                                    night, supposed to be about 12 miles from the town/ 6th inst at sunrise the army
                                    commenced their March, calculating to arrive at the place of disternation this day/
                                    alls well/ at 12 oclock am [noon?] where haulted/ the troops unslung their
                                    knapsacks, put them into the waggons, and where then drawn up in order of Battle,
                                    supposing about 4 miles from the above town/ and understanding it was woods all the
                                    way, to facilitate the March the line was broken off in collumns of companies/ from
                                    this position the line of Battle could be formed with facility/ the march was slow,
                                    in order that the scouting parties might have time to examin all places where it was
                                    likely indians might be secreted/ the ground was hilley and somewhat brocken/ the
                                    several corps had to change positions 3 or 4 times, as the situation of the ground
                                    presented itself/ in this cautious way the army moved towards Tippicanoe/ on their
                                    arrival of about a $1/2 mile from town, news flew through the army that
                                    Major Daviss19 was ordered to halt (by the indians) who was in
                                    front with the Dragoons/ the army where halted, this raised the troops to a war
                                    pitch, and all appeared eager to press forward and decide the contest/ in a few
                                    minuets the army moved forward, with no other expectation but commencing Battle
                                    soon/ thay had not moved far before three indians where seen approching on hors[e]
                                    back, and expresing a wish to speak 
                              
                                 19 Joseph 
                                                Hamilton
                                                Daviess
                                            , colonel of 
                                                Kentucky
                                             militia, aide-decamp to Harrison, and major of two companies of
                                            dragoons. 
                                                Daviess
                                             was killed at 
                                                Tippecanoe
                                            . Alfred Pirtle, The Battle of 
                                                    Tippecanoe
                                                
                                  (Filson Club Publications, No. 15; 
                                                Louisville
                                            , Ky., 1900), 34, 36.
                           
                                     to the commanding officer/ the army halted,
                                    (all attempts of the spies or interpreters in speaking [to] the indians heretefore
                                    had proved unavailing) the indians held a short council with the chief of the army
                                    and galloped of[f] full speed/ the army resumed their march towards town which soon
                                    appeared in sight as well as a host of indians in it/ the army in general not
                                    knowing what conversation pas[s]ed between their commander and the prophets chiefs,
                                    still held their war pitch/ the march was continued till the army arrived within
                                    about 150 yards of town, (in this situation the army and town where in full view of
                                    each other) on their halt more indians came out and held a council with the chief of
                                    the army/ this position of the troops continued about $1/2 an hour/
                                    dureing this time thay appeared fully prepared to obey an order for chargeing and
                                    rushing immediately into town, (although the indians had fortifyed it with
                                    considerable skill for them) the hostile behavour and appearance of the indians, and
                                    the army not knowing the result of the councils, would justify them in supposing
                                    that their was no other alternative than an immediate engagement/ an order pas[s]ed
                                    for the army to march by companies, with the oblique step to the left/ this order
                                    appeared evident that an encampment was the object then [than] otherwise, (it so
                                    proved) the army encamped on a high piece of ground, (west of the town
                                    $1/2 a mile) projecting and running to a point into a prairie, raising
                                    above the level of which, about 12 feet on the east side, and nearly twice that
                                    distance on the west, and nigh this side runs a small stream/ the army by this time,
                                    had received the substance of the conversation which had past from their commander,
                                    and the indians answers, which was that no hostilities should be commited on eather
                                    side till after an interview to morrow/ the army where no less on their guard on
                                    account of the indians promises/ the troops retired to rest at tattoo as usual, that
                                    is every man who formed apart of the outer line of encampment, slept immediately
                                    opposite his post in line of Battle for the night attack, with his clothes and
                                    accoutrements all on his bayonet fixed Musket loaded and laying by his side/ the
                                    night was cold windy and rainny/ for the comfort of the troops, large fires where
                                    kept up all night/ alls well/ to give a clear idea of the encampment, it will be
                                    necessary to mark out the lines, as well as the ridges of the land/ 7th  inst at 1/2 after 4 oclock in the morning (the usual
                                    time for the army to rise) an alarm20 was given by the report of
                                    a gun, and instantly followed by the horid yelds of indians/ at this moment the army
                                    where still at rest, but ever reddy to obey their orders/ thay where not found
                                    wanting to the occation/ a few seconds pasted before the line of Battle was formed,
                                    after which, the indians found the army reddy to meet them on all points/ the attack
                                    first began at the head of the left wing/ it was immediately followed up at the head
                                    of the right, at the foot of the ridge/ in front of Whitnes21
                                    and Baens22 companies, where a few trees, behind which there
                                    where a number of indians, and a constant fire was keep up betwen these two
                                    companies, and those indians for some time/ having the command of Capt Baens
                                    company, and judgeing it was better to charge the indians in front, than to stand
                                    and receive their fires, I so requested of Major Floyd, who commanded the right
                                    wing, as did Lieut Hawkins commanding Whitnes, but was refused on the ground of
                                    leaving this part of the line and angle wholly exposed to the indians/ these two
                                    companies not only had to contend with the enemy in front, but those at the head of
                                    the camp, that where nigh this angle/ Major Daviss had formed a party troop in the
                                    rear of these companies/ the commanding in chief arrived here, and seeing the
                                    situation of the companies, he ordered Major Daviss to charge those indians in
                                    front/ the Majors undanted courage hurried him forward with two small a force to
                                    assure success/ in the charge the Major received a Mortal wound Coll White23 killed and one other dragoon wounded/ the party returned
                                    without accomplishing 
                              
                                 20 At this point in the letter there is a sketch
                                            showing the way in which the troops were drawn up in the encampment.
                                            Reproduction of the sketch was not feasible.
                              
                                 21 Moses Whitney, former captain of the company of
                                            riflemen now led by Lieutenant Hawkins since Whitney had resigned from the
                                            army in July, 1811. Heitman, Historical Register and Dictionary
                                                of the 
                                                    United States
                                                 Army, I, 1031; Esarey, Governors Messages
                                                and Letters, I, 695.
                              
                                 22 William C. Bean, captain in the Fourth 
                                                United States
                                             Infantry. Bean died on November 9, 1811, of wounds received in
                                            the Battle of 
                                                Tippecanoe
                                            . Heitman, Historical Register and Dictionary of
                                                the 
                                                    United States
                                                 Army, I, 203.
                              
                                 23 Isaac White, an officer in the Indiana militia who
                                            enlisted in the battalion commanded by Major 
                                                Daviess
                                            . White was among those killed at 
                                                Tippecanoe
                                            . Lee Burns, Early Architects and Builders of
                                                Indiana (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. 11, No. 3; 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , Ind., 1935), 185.
                           
                                     its object, however the indians soon found two
                                    warm a reseption and left the ground in front/ the action had by this time become
                                    almost general on all sides/ Capt Snelling and Prescott24 was
                                    ordered from this wing, to support the line across the head of the camp, their
                                    vacancy supplyed with dragoons/ Capt S[nelling] charged and dislodged a boddy of
                                    indians in that direction and nigh this angle/ the manner the indians faught was
                                    desperate/ thay would rush with horid yelds in bodies upon the lines/ being driven
                                    back, they would remain in perfect silance for a few seconds, then would whistle (on
                                    an instrument made for that purpose) and then commence the rush again, while others
                                    would creep up close to the lines on their hands and knees, and get behind trees for
                                    their support/ the companies Whitnes and Baens, dureing the time thay continued to
                                    oucupy their own ground in the line, had 12 men wounded and one killed/ Major Wells
                                    took command of S[nelling's?] and P.[rescott]s companies and with his
                                    former command charged the indians at the head of the camp/ at the same time I
                                    received an order (as did Lieut Hawkins) and proceeded accordingly to support the
                                    rear line/ on my arrival the indians had gained ground upon Spencers company, being
                                    the senior officer present, commanded and formed the companies, charged the indians
                                    killed five and put the rest to flight/ Capt Cook25 (and
                                    company) was also ordered to this point, but arrived too late to bare any share of
                                    the charge/ it now began to be light and the Battle about ended/ I returned to my
                                    post in the line with all my men, 4 however where wounded/ I could once have doubted
                                    my ability and preesance of mind, in attending to this all important part of a
                                    soldiers duty, but am satisfyed as respects that as well as with my constitution to
                                    support all the fatigues/ the Battle continued with slauter for two hours and
                                    upwards, when the army where left in persestion [possession] of their camp/ the
                                    indians where never known to attack before, so soon by an [h]our/ when the action
                                    commenced, it was verry dark cloudy and rainney weather, and so continued for an
                                    [h]our and a half/ the 
                              
                                 24 George W. Prescott, a captain in the Fourth 
                                                United States
                                             Infantry. Heitman, Historical Register and
                                                Dictionary of the 
                                                    United States
                                                 Army, I, 805.
                              
                                 25 Joel Cook, a captain in the Fourth 
                                                United States
                                             Infantry. Ibid., 323.
                           
                                     larg[e] fires spoke of before where immediately
                                    extinguished, for they afforded the enemy a great chance in viewing the camp/ at 7
                                    oclock a.m the army began to seek for refreshment, and attend to the wounded in
                                    general/ not till now did their appear serious face/ it now pervaded the whole army,
                                    for their where dedd of both sides laying nigh the line of Battle round the whole
                                    extent of camp/ dureing the action this maloncolly site did not appear mou[r]nful/
                                    their was one glorious and brave scene, in seeing the perfect collness and undanted
                                    resignation of the wounded/ Soldiers rejoice for this is the fate of War/ the beef
                                    cattle as uesual where a feeding in the prairie/ thay where taken by the enemy/ 2
                                    pound of flour per man remained/ this caused a maloncolly reflection, for the least
                                    calculation was five days before the army could reach the provision at the block
                                    house, and the fate of that could not be known at this time/ that fortitude and
                                    perseverance which is necessary to support the army under these trials, is in full
                                    opperation/ it was known at this time through the interpreters that the indians had
                                    owned themself beaten, but not to what extent/ the day was spent in attending to the
                                    police of the camp fortifying the same, and preparing to attack the town the next
                                    day/ the night of the 7th was cold and rainney, and but a little Soldiers rest
                                    obtained/ at sunrise the 8th inst the dragoons where sent to discover the situation
                                    of the town, and in 15 minuets an express arrived informed that the indians had and
                                    where leaveing town and all its contents had crossed the wabash and that the
                                    Dragoons had posestion of the town/ a number of waggons where dispatched, and
                                    returned from town loaded with beans corn and peas, which the army commenced cooking
                                    without meet/ thay ett well owing to the good appotite of the troops/ the day was
                                    spent in burning and distroying the town of Tippicanoe, and preparing for the march
                                    the next/ at sunrise the 9th inst the army commenced putting the wounded into the
                                    waggons, of which thay occupied eighteen/ at 11 oclock a.m the officers and men
                                    slung their Knapsacks which contained a few beans corn and flour, and commenced the
                                    march for the block hous, leaving dead at this encampment 40 odd officers and men/
                                    the army arrived at the block hous the 12th inst alls well/ a boat had arrived from
                                    Fort Harrison with fresh beef flour and whiskey, which the army commenced devouring
                                    immediately/ the wounded have suffered  much in
                                    the waggons, but will now proceed to 
                                        Vincennes
                                     in the boats/ at sunrise the 13th inst the march was taken up for Fort
                                    H.[arrison] leaving the block hous on fire to avoid indians occupying it/ on the
                                    15th inst at 8 oclock a.m the army arrived at Fort H/ alls well/ a general salute
                                    was fired, then dismised for refreshment/ at one oclock P.M commenced the March for
                                    V[incennes], leaveing Capt Snelling and Poses26 companies at
                                    Fort Harrison for winter quarters/ the army arrived at Fort 
                                        Knox
                                     the 18th inst alls well/ the 4th U.S.I stopt here/ the Dragoons Mounted
                                    riflema[n] and Militia continued 3 miles to 
                                        Vincennes
                                     and dismised/ the wounded had all readdy arrived at V. and placed in
                                    comfortable quarters &c Fines
                        
                                    and am verry respectfully Sir
                                    your obdt Sert
                                    C Larrabee Lieut 4th U.S Infy
                                
                        Lieut Adam Larrabee U.S. L[ight] Artilry
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Fort 
                                    Knox
                                  Indiana Territory
                           
                                    Feby 7th 1812
                                
                        Sir
                        you might have expected my second L[etter] before now but the situation of this
                                    country renders it impossible for the mails to go and return at their stated times,
                                    instead of once a week once a month/ in giving the details of the enclosed
                                    expedition, much must be delaid till I can see you/ from the 5th to the 7th inst my
                                    quarters have been much shaken, caused by earthquakes, which for 7 or 8 minuets and
                                    some not so long, dureing which time the chimnes and plastureing are a falling/
                                    their is from 3 to 4 shocks dureing an hour, some part of the time/ thay comm[ence]d
                                    the four part of Decr 1811 and still continue/ I can only say the allegana Mountains
                                    for getting up thounder showers and the Indiana Territory for earthquakes/27 I take the liberty to pay the 
                              
                                 26 Thornton Posey, a major in the Fifth 
                                                United States
                                             Infantry. Ibid., 800.
                              
                                 27 On February 18, 1812, Nathaniel Ewing, of 
                                                Vincennes
                                            , wrote Albert Gallatin and spoke of severe earthquakes that
                                            "still continue. Our houses are all damaged and scearsly a Chimney
                                            is left standing intire." See Clarence Edwin Carter (ed.), The Territorial Papers of the 
                                                    United States
                                                , Vol. VIII, The Territory of Indiana,
                                                1810–1816 (
                                                Washington
                                            , D.C., 1939), 165.
                           
                                     postage on this L on account of not knowing
                                    weather you are in Windham and therefore subscribe it to the care of your Sister,
                                    and who will take the liberty to read its contents, and reclose it to you, (if
                                    absent) since my arrival of[f] the expedition time has been spent as well as could
                                    be expected/ I have joined in a number of balls at 
                                        Vincennes
                                    , where the Fair sect are verry good dancers/ supposed it is owing to
                                    their being a mixture of French people here/ this place has been settled as long as
                                    Phelidelphia/ its inhabitants till about 20 years where composed of the half hors[e]
                                    and half allegator, or canadian breed/ the appairance of the place will justify a
                                    diclleration [declaration?] that thay have spent the most of their time in
                                    t[rucking?] with the indians/ their is now a mixture of Verginia and Kentuckyans
                                    here, which formes a small and agreeable society/ however I had much reather bee in
                                    the Yankee 
                                        United States
                                    / Their appears a bill in congress for raising more troops should their
                                    be new officers appointed in that section of the wourld in which you live you will
                                    oblidge me in giveing their names in a L/ a consolidation of the companies 4th Infy
                                    now here, will soon take place/ the surplous of officers will be sent of[f]
                                    recruiting/ I expect to remain with the old companies and think thay will [be]
                                    ordered to 
                                        Detroit
                                     next spring/ their has been a number of publications of various kinds
                                    respecting the expedition and extracts from officers L[etters]/ I disclaim against
                                    the whole in toto, except the necessary ones, and beg that no extracts of my L.s be
                                    published on any account whatever/ their has been no more difference in the opinion
                                    of the people, than might have been expected/ such always will [be] the case, in our
                                    free government you do me a great favour in giving my best respects to my relation
                                    and friends in Windham, perticular the Fair seck may you soon be restored to health
                                    and liberty from those troubelsome cancers/ only add that we live in times of comets
                                    earthquakes and rumours of War—
                        
                                    and have the honor to be sir
                                    your verry obdt Servt
                                    C. Larrabee Lieut
                                
                        Lieut Adam Larrabee USL Artillery
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
         
            Three Letters of Meredith Nicholson to Novelist Winston Churchill
            Edited by Warren I. Titus⋆
            
            The political novelists of the Progressive era were often drawn together in common struggles,
                    regardless of party affiliation. Two such novelists who were engaged in the exciting battles of the
                    early years of the twentieth century were the best-selling author, Winston Churchill, of 
                        New Hampshire
                    , a Republican, and Meredith Nicholson, of Indiana, a Democrat.
            In the fall of 1910, Churchill had come to Indiana at the urgent suggestion of Senator Albert J.
                    Beveridge to help the Senator in his quest for re-election in that state.1
                    Nicholson, who heard of the author's efforts on Beveridge's behalf, sought to
                    contact his fellow novelist. The following letter is apparently the first of three that Nicholson
                    wrote Churchill and reflects his interest in the latter's literary and political work.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              1500 North 
                                    Delaware
                                  Street.⋆⋆
                              
                              
                                 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 , Indiana
                           
                                    October 19 1910
                                
                        My Dear Mr. Churchill:
                        I feel that I owe you an apology for having precipitated myself upon you, as I did
                                    yesterday, by telegraph. My excuse must be my long admiration of your writings and
                                    of the things for which you stand politically. Though I am what I have heard John 
                                        Wise
                                     of 
                                        Virginia
                                     call "an old-fashioned, fried-meal Democrat,["] we
                                    are not far apart, I fancy, in what we want to see accomplished. Four or five years
                                    ago, when I was spending the summer at Kennebunkport, I 
                              
                                 ⋆ Warren I. Titus is associate professor of
                                            English at George Peabody College for Teachers, 
                                    Nashville, Tennessee
                                 .
                              
                                 1 See Warren I. Titus (ed.), "The Senator and
                                            the Author: Beveridge-Churchill Correspondence," Indiana Magazine of History, LV (June, 1959), 173–177.
                              
                                            
                                    ⋆⋆ In transcribing these
                                                letters, original spelling and punctuation have been faithfully
                                                followed. A few minor modifications of spacing were necessary in making
                                                the letters conform to the printed page.
                                            These three Nicholson letters are in the Churchill Papers, Dartmouth
                                                College, 
                                       Hanover,
                                                        New
                                                Hampshire
                                    .
                                        
                           
                                     watched your campaign in 
                                        New Hampshire
                                     with great interest and I tried to "connect" with one
                                    of your meetings though unsuccessfully.2 Your work has counted
                                    and I have been glad to see it.
                        If you don't mind I should like to add that your novels are, if I am
                                    entitled to an opinion, the most admirable, for scope, depth and integrity, that
                                    have been written by any American. You have been equal to the big tasks you have set
                                    yourself, and your work has mass and substance and must stand.
                        So, for all these reasons I am sorry not to have had the pleasure of seeing you on my
                                    own soil this week.
                        With best wishes,
                        
                                    Sincerely yours
                                    Meredith Nicholson
                                
                        Winston Churchill Esq Cornish N.H.
                     
                  
               
                
            Later, Churchill suggested that the two men exchange some of their volumes, a request that Nicholson
                    was pleased to comply with, as the two letters that follow indicate.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              1500 North 
                                    Delaware
                                  Street.
                              
                                 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 , Indiana
                           
                                    January 2 1911
                                
                        My Dear Mr. Churchill:
                        Your kind note of December 21 [27?] reached me duly. I shall be delighted to exchange
                                    books with you and a few pounds of my products will be on your doorstep as soon as I
                                    can lay hands on the things I feel safest in sending on so long a journey. Pray do
                                    not feel obliged to examine them. They are the best in the two or three kinds of
                                    things I have attempted, but pretty poor at that. I have just got rid of a paper on
                                    the Provincial American that I did for the Atlantic
                           3
                                    
                              
                                 2 Nicholson is referring to Churchill's
                                            unsuccessful campaign to win the Republican gubernatorial nomination in 
                                                New Hampshire
                                             in 1906. Ibid., 170, 173.
                              
                                 3 Meredith Nicholson, "The Provincial
                                            American," Atlantic, CVII (March, 1911),
                                            311–319. In this article Nicholson drew warm portraits of some of
                                            the well-known Hoosier figures of the post Civil War era. In general, he
                                            found much to praise in the provincial middle western mind and maintained
                                            that "we are more truly representative of the American ideal than
                                            our metropolitan cousins.…" Ibid.,
                                            318.
                           
                                     and I'm going to tackle a new book
                                    tomorrow morning, at about 9:19. It may be that the gulfs will wash me down; it may
                                    be I shall touch the happy Isles. There's always the eternal hope in this
                                    business, even for such poor worms as I. I never intended going in for the sort of
                                    fluffy romance I dallied with for half a dozen years and now I'm going to
                                    boil the melodrama out of my system (as 
                                        Lowell
                                     wrote Howells early in their acquaintance to stew the Heine out of
                                        his)4 and try to write of the things that exist around me.
                                    As you go blithely on your way, pray remember now and then, that a poor Hoosier with
                                    a hickory stick for staff and his old clothes and a few sheets of note paper on his
                                    back, is stumbling on behind you—by George! a good many weary parasangs
                                    behind.
                        My best wishes for a happy and prosperous New Year!
                        
                                    Sincerely yours
                                    Meredith Nicholson
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              1500 North 
                                    Delaware
                                  Street.
                              
                                 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 , Indiana
                           
                                    February 27, 1911
                                
                        My Dear Churchill:
                        The two volumes you so kindly inscribed reached me duly and I am mighty proud to have
                                    them. Your complete works make a very solid, Gibralter-like appearance on my
                                    shelves.
                        If the March Atlantic falls under your eye you may be amused by
                                    some of my reflections, on mine own Western people. I'm pretty well
                                    disgusted, as our Democratic legislature closes its session, with its meagre
                                    performance. Even the B & M. R.R. can't be as pernicious in New 
                                        England
                                     affairs as the Saloon is here.5 We never get it off
                                    our backs.
                        
                                    faithfully yours
                                    Meredith Nicholson
                                
                        Winston Churchill Cornish N.H.
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  4 James Russell 
                            Lowell
                        , William Dean Howells, and Heinrich Heine.
               
                  5 Churchill had made a long, successful fight against the control of 
                            New Hampshire
                         politics by the 
                            Boston
                         & 
                            Maine
                         Railroad. For another Hoosier's comment about the liquor interests and
                        Indiana politics, see Titus, "The Senator and the Author: Beveridge-Churchill
                        Correspondence," Indiana Magazine of History, LV (June, 1959),
                    177.
            
            
            Churchill's political activities ceased after an abortive attempt to win the 
                        New Hampshire
                     governorship on the Bull Moose or Progressive ticket in 1912, and his literary career
                    came to a halt shortly after World War I. By the time he died in 1947, he was nearly a forgotten
                    man. Nicholson, on the other hand, continued to write and keep up his political interests into the
                    decade of the thirties. During the administrations of Franklin D. Roosevelt, he was appointed
                    minister to Paraguay (1933–1934), Venezuela (1935–1938), and Nicaragua
                        (1938–1941).6 Nevertheless, the Churchill Papers at Dartmouth
                    College, where the above letters are located, do not reveal any further correspondence Churchill had
                    from Nicholson.
            
               
                  6 R. E. Banta (comp.), Indiana Authors and Their Books,
                            1816–1916 (
                            Crawfordsville
                        , Ind., 1949), 238.
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               The Invention of America: An Inquiry into the Historical Nature of the New World and
                        the Meaning of Its History. By Edmundo O'Gorman. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1961. Pp. 177. Maps, notes, index. $5.00.)
            This book, the first of Professor O'Gorman's works to be published in English,
                    represents the author's current reflections and opinions upon a theme which, in its various
                    ramifications, has occupied much of his thinking and all of his writing since 1940. The essence of
                    this theme is that 
                        Columbus
                     cannot properly be said to have "discovered" America and that the
                    widely held view to that effect is not only logically absurd but represents an erroneous approach to
                    the very nature of historical phenomena.
            Discovery, according to O'Gorman's definition, implies conscious intent upon the
                    part of at least one of the following: the discoverer himself, some divine agency or destiny, or the
                    thing discovered. He shows that historically all three of these approaches have been used in turn to
                    justify the thesis that 
                        Columbus
                     discovered America. 
                        Columbus
                    ' own son, Ferdinand, deliberately falsified the evidence in order to persuade
                    his readers that 
                        Columbus
                     sailed in 1492 with the conscious purpose of discovering a new continent; reaching
                    Asia, according to Ferdinand, was a distinctly secondary objective. Bartolom$eA de Las
                    Casas adopted the second approach by maintaining that, although 
                        Columbus
                     himself was quite unaware of his role as the destined discoverer of a new world, he was
                    nonetheless the chosen instrument of God, whose conscious purpose was to bring the true doctrine of
                    Christianity to the inhabitants of this hitherto isolated and benighted part of the globe.
            Modern historians, of course, on the one hand have long recognized the deliberate falsehoods of
                    Ferdinand 
                        Columbus
                    . They know that Christopher 
                        Columbus
                     had no other intention than to reach the east coast of Asia and that to the end of his
                    life, despite disturbing evidence to the contrary, he clung to the belief that he actually had reached Asia. On the other hand, modern historians by and large do not indorse
                    the supernatural or providential view of history but limit themselves to the consideration of human
                    purposes and motives. Yet modern historians, including the eminent Professor Samuel Eliot Morison,
                    speak blithely of the "discovery" of America by Christopher 
                        Columbus
                     in October, 1492.
            If discovery implies conscious purpose, where did that conscious purpose lie? Not in 
                        Columbus
                    — not in the mind of God— then of necessity in the object
                    discovered, in America itself. Professor O'Gorman quotes the following telltale passage
                    from Morison's Admiral of the Ocean Sea: " `Never again may
                    mortal men hope to recapture the amazement, the wonder, the delight of those October days in 1492
                    when the New World gracefully yielded her virginity to the conquering Castilians.'
                    " O'Gorman goes on: "What does this metaphysical rape  imply save the idea that, fully constituted in its being, the American
                    continent had always been there patiently waiting throughout the centuries to reveal itself to the
                    first man who, as in a fairy tale, would come to touch it?" (p. 44). Such an attitude, the
                    author concludes, is based upon an ontological view of historical phenomena as fixed and
                    unchangeable quantities, a view which is discredited by modern science and is logically absurd.
            Having discredited the idea of the discovery of America, O'Gorman proposes to substitute the
                    concept that America was "invented" gradually as accumulating evidence forced the
                    European community to revise its traditional idea of the nature of the world. He devotes the second
                    and third parts of the book to a historical reconstruction of this process which, although brief, is
                    impressive in its clarity and comprehensiveness. The last and least satisfactory section of the book
                    discusses the "meaning" of American history in its twofold development: Latin
                    America on the one hand, North America on the other.
            Many historians, impatient of philosophical analysis, will be inclined to dismiss this essay as an
                    unimportant quibbling over semantics. But those historians who appreciate the importance of sound
                    philosophical underpinnings to the building of historical edifices will find this book exciting and
                    rewarding.
            Wendell N. Calkins, 
                  
                            Wabash
                         College
            
         
         
            
               Edward 
                            Randolph
                         and the American Colonies, 1676–1703. By Michael Garibaldi Hall. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, for the Institute of Early American History and Culture at 
                        Williamsburg
                    , Va., 1960. Pp. xi, 241. Endpaper map, bibliographical essay, index. $5.00.)
            
               Robert Livingston, 1654–1728, and the Politics of Colonial 
                            New York
                        . By Lawrence H. Leder. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, for the Institute of Early American History and Culture at 
                        Williamsburg
                    , Va., 1961. Pp. xii, 306. Frontispiece, maps, bibliographical note, index.
                    $6.00.)
            Edward 
                        Randolph
                     and Robert Livingston were both significant figures in colonial politics in an era when 
                        England
                     sought to centralize royal administration. In analyzing their roles, Michael G. Hall
                    and Lawrence H. Leder use the same approach of focusing on the activities of an individual to
                    illuminate the issues and politics of a formative period in American history. In comparing the
                    careers of the two men, one is immediately struck by the fact that whether he was a royal offical or
                    a provincial politician his abilities in achieving advancement and position counted far less than
                    personal contacts, family connections, and friendships. Without question, Livingston was the more
                    talented of the two as a manipulator of men, whereas 
                        Randolph
                     was severely handicapped by certain personal traits and lack of foresight and diplomacy
                    in implementing his policies.
            As a royal courier sent to enforce the Navigation Acts, as secretary and registrar of the Dominion of
                    New 
                        England
                    , and finally as surveyor  general, 
                        Randolph
                     was a conscientious and loyal servant of the Crown, never wavering in his attempts to
                    extend the royal prerogative. The striking contradiction in the man is that he was among the most
                    experienced and informed of royal officials, yet he never appeared to learn from his errors.
                    Furthermore, his authoritarian and autocratic manner and his haughty arrogance antagonized and
                    infuriated the colonists and made him an exceedingly unpopular representative of the Crown. Though
                    he held various important offices during his twenty-five years of service, his career constantly
                    fluctuated between the extremes of loss of favor, imprisonment, failure and position, power, and
                    success. In the end he died friendless and in relative obscurity in America where he had sought to
                    carve a place for himself, but where he never belonged.
            The barrage of criticism directed against 
                        Randolph
                    's policies, personality, and inept ways has tended to belittle his
                    contributions and has emphasized his failures, imprisonment, attempts at personal aggrandizement,
                    and disputes with leading figures on both sides of the Atlantic. Thus to evaluate 
                        Randolph
                    's role fairly is indeed a difficult task, but one which Hall has accomplished
                    with great objectivity. Because the emphasis of the book is on 
                        Randolph
                    's activities, however, the underlying principles behind his and 
                        England
                    's colonial policy are lost. This is one of the drawbacks in using the
                    biographical approach to study the politics of an age: the individual stands out, but the political
                    and imperial developments, as in this case, are not fully analyzed. Another example of the
                    disadvantages of the biographical approach is illustrated in the author's treatment of the
                    internal political situation in 
                        Massachusetts
                    , where 
                        Randolph
                     played such a dominant part. The book frequently refers to factions, vaguely defined as
                    the moderate and popular parties, but there is no description of their composition.
            While Edward 
                        Randolph
                    's career is that of a displaced Englishman and a man frequently frustrated in
                    his efforts to attain position and favor, Robert Livingston's life, in contrast, is a
                    remarkable success story of a transplanted Scotsman who came to 
                        New York
                     in 1675 and achieved political and economic position and power. In his half-century
                    involvement in 
                        New York
                    , he steadily rose from a minor official in the outpost community of 
                        Albany
                    , to secretary for Indian affairs, to member of the governor's council and
                    assembly, and finally to the post of speaker. His political achievements were matched by his
                    economic success as merchant and as lord of Livingston Manor. In presenting Livingston's
                    varied activities, the author offers a cross section of provincial politics and economic
                    developments in 
                        New York
                     from 1675 to 1728. One of the most valuable contributions the author makes is his
                    analysis of the role Leislerian factionalism played in 
                        New York
                     politics long after the death of Leisler. Leder discusses the personal nature of
                    alliances and loyalties and the intricacies of colonial politics with its factionalism within
                    factions.
            This book, which received the first Annual Manuscript Award of the Institute of Early American
                    History and Culture, is an encyclopedia of information about Livingston's political
                    activities and financial dealings. Leder has carefully searched both published and unpublished
                    materials in America and 
                        England
                    , and he presents an overabundance  of facts on
                    every transaction with which Livingston was remotely connected—almost to the exact pound.
                    The style as a result is awkward and cumbersome, and Livingston sounds more like a ledger with
                    debits and credits than the clever, able man he was.
            Rena Vassar, Indiana University
            
         
         
            
               The Federalist Era, 1789–1801. By John C. Miller. New
                        American Nation Series. Edited by Henry Steele Commager and Richard B. Morris. (
                        New York
                    : Harper & Brothers, 1960. Pp. xv, 304. Illustrations, map, bibliography, index.
                    $5.00.)
            
               The Crusade Against Slavery, 1830–1860. By Louis Filler. New American Nation Series. Edited by Henry Steele Commager and Richard B. Morris. (
                        New York
                    : Harper & Brothers, 1960. Pp. xvii, 318. Illustrations, maps, bibliography,
                    index. $5.00.)
            
               The Cultural Life of the New Nation, 1776–1830. By Russel Blaine Nye.
                        New American Nation Series. Edited by Henry Steele Commager and Richard B.
                    Morris. (
                        New York
                    : Harper & Brothers, 1960. Pp. xii, 324. Illustrations, bibliography, index.
                    $5.00.)
            Miller covers the same period dealt with by John 
                        Spencer
                     Bassett in The Federalist System of the earlier American
                        Nation Series, and, as Bassett, confines his treatment almost entirely to political and
                    diplomatic matters. Miller utilizes the many monographs which have appeared in the last
                    half-century, but he still asks most of the same questions which Bassett posed. The study emphasizes
                    the dominant themes of "Union and Liberty," stresses that 
                        Hamilton
                     and Jefferson were engaged in a struggle for power, and brings out the intense
                    partisan—if not party—spirit that existed from the beginning of the
                    government. The author is clearly sympathetic to 
                        Hamilton
                     and the Hamiltonian view, and only in connection with his part in the election of 1800
                    does the New Yorker come in for even mild criticism. On the other hand, by choice of word and phrase
                    Miller creates an anti-Jefferson bias in his writing. Balance is lacking.
            Filler's study, somewhat neo-abolitionist in approach, is oriented to the Garrisonians and
                    disagrees sharply with the significance of the role assigned to Theodore Weld and his followers by
                    Gilbert Barnes and others. Filler does say that "it is difficult to assign precedence to
                    any of the protagonists of abolition. All had strategic moments of authority" (p. 280). But
                    it is also difficult to tell what the author means when he states, for example:
                    "Remarkably, though free soil, rather than antislavery, was at the base of popular unrest,
                    the western territories were too far away seriously to affect popular political attitudes.
                    Antislavery, not free soil, divided the country" (p. 200). In many places, there is an
                    insistence that abolitionists were not the important factor and that, even in
                    1840, northerners were not antislavery, but were with minor variations non-slavery. The reader has trouble following these
                    distinctions—important perhaps to the student of the philosophy of antislavery but not to
                    the ordinary citizen of the mid-nineteenth century—and is further hampered by the author
                    contradicting  himself. Knowledge of the free Negro, North and
                    South, as well as of antislavery sentiment in the South prior to 1830 appears rather limited. The
                    footnotes provide the finest known bibliography of the crusade against slavery, but numerous errors
                    were noted. The reviewer cannot refrain from stating that in the first citation of his own study of
                        Slavery in 
                            Tennessee
                        
                the state was given as 
                        Kentucky
                    , while in the second the first name was incorrect.
            Nye interprets "cultural history to mean chiefly the development of key American ideas and
                    institutions" (p. xii), and within this framework he has produced a creditable survey of
                    the period. The first two chapters, "The Foundations of American Thought" and
                    "The Roots of an American Faith," are the best in the book. "The
                    Structure of a New Society" reveals a rather weak knowledge of the society of the South,
                    and there certainly were "fewer than 50,000" (p. 116) who owned 50 or more slaves
                    in 1850. A minimum of investigation would have revealed that there were fewer than 8,000! The author
                    finds that in just about every phase of cultural endeavor there was much groping and modifying, much
                    derivative and imitative activity, much grafting and adopting. In reaching this conclusion Nye
                    occasionally turns a felicitous sentence, such as: "The union of bench, pulpit, and
                    schoolroom made respectability conservative and conservatism respectable" (p. 110); but
                    unfortunately there are too many counterbalances of which "The overwhelming religious issue
                    of the period 1776 to 1830 was the contest for the West" (p. 229) is a fair example.
            Attention to details and to the niceties of editorial work seems to be decreasing with each volume in
                    this series. Each of these studies contains many errors in footnotes, bibliographies, and content
                    material. Numerous sentences, including some in the editors' introductions, have no meaning. Other things stated as fact can be classed only as absurdities; one
                    example from each of the volumes will be noted. John Adams left 
                        Washington
                     early on March 4, 1801, and was seen going through 
                        New York
                     later that same day (Miller, pp. 275–276) — the transportation
                    revolution came much earlier than has been heretofore realized! The echoes of Brook's
                    assault on Sumner were heard as far as 
                        Kansas
                     where they may have encouraged 
                        Brown
                     to deal as he did with his Potawatomi foes (Filler, p. 245). This post hoc
                        propter hoc "logic" falls apart very quickly when it is realized that the
                    first incident occurred on May 22 and the second on May 25, 1856. The date of the first is given,
                    but the unsuspecting reader is left without the second date. A discussion of college teaching and
                    academic freedom cites Clement Eaton, "Southern Senators and the Right of Instruction,
                    1789–1860," saying that this article deals with the "particular
                    Southern problem" (Nye, p. 185). The reading even of the first sentence of this article
                    would have told the author and the editors that it dealt with the "right" of the
                    state legislatures to "tell" their senators how to vote in the national Senate.
            These books would have been much more valuable to historians and much more trusted by future students
                    if they had received a little more loving attention from the authors and a little more hardnosed
                    treatment by the editors.
            Chase C. Mooney, Indiana University
            
         
         
         
            
               Legacy of Suppression: Freedom of Speech and Press in Early American History. By
                    Leonard W. Levy. (
                        Cambridge
                    , Mass.: Belknap Press of 
                        Harvard
                     University Press, 1960. Pp. xiv, 353. Appendix, bibliography, index. $6.50.)
            Morton Levy's Legacy of Suppression presents a revisionist interpretation
                    of the development and nature of libertarianism in eighteenth-century America based upon intensive
                    research in primary sources. The book challenges the Holmes-Chafee-Schofield thesis which is called
                    "an hallucination of sentiment that ignores history" (p. 18). The reason for the
                    "error" of these scholars is that they "anticipated the past by
                    succumbing to an impulse to recreate it so that its image may be seen in a manner consistent with
                    our rhetorical tradition of freedom" (p. 3). Professor Levy is also critical of writers who
                    disagree with this same thesis because they offer only slight evidence to support their view.
            Levy's book devotes itself to an investigation of different but related questions. Was it
                    the intention of the generation living during the time between the Revolution and the First
                    Amendment to supersede common law by repudiating the Blackstonian theory that freedom of the press
                    meant only freedom from prior restraint? Did public remarks that tended to lower the prestige of the
                    government constitute seditious libel? What was the significance of the abolition of the power of
                    government to punish statements that did not directly lead to acts in violation of law? Did the
                    concept of freedom of the press and speech advance when alleged distinctions betwen liberty and
                    license were abandoned? Levy proceeds to answer these questions by tracing the evolution of freedom
                    of expression. He finds that the phrase "freedom of speech" was extremely rare in
                    the seventeenth century. During the eighteenth century, the phrase was used to refer primarily to a
                    parliamentary and not a civil right. The common law's definition of freedom of the press
                    meant only the absence of censorship in advance of publication. The certainty of punishment after
                    publication, however, placed restraints on even the hardiest of souls. Thus, as late as 1763 the
                    situation remained substantially unchanged from that of the previous century except for the
                    disappearance of the licensing system.
            The revolutionary controversy with the mother country gave vitality to the colonial press and brought
                    about its expansion but did not change the prevailing concept of freedom of speech or press.
                    Certainly there was unlimited freedom to speak out on behalf of the American cause, but criticism of
                    it "brought the zealots of patriotism with tar and feathers" (p. 176). The Quebec
                    declaration of 1774 by the Continental Congress indicated that a diffusion of right sentiments was
                    to be permitted, but wrong sentiments were to be suppressed. Freedom of press was defined as a
                    privilege not to be used as justification for attempts to revile with impunity. This concept was not
                    only orthodox, "it was the only definition known in Anglo-American thought and
                    law" (p. 68).
            Professor Levy discusses in detail the Cushing-Adams correspondence of 1789, which is usually ignored
                    by scholars. The libertarianism of the two men was shown by the acceptance of the theory that the
                    publication of truth could not effectually harm a good government.  Still, they refused to admit that error of opinion should also be
                    tolerated. Had Cushing and Adams admitted that a good government could not be injured by false
                    opinion, they would have developed a libertarian philosophy that was incompatible with the concept
                    of seditious libel. The book concludes that the framers of the Constitution had a genius for studied
                    imprecision. There is no evidence that they possessed ultimate wisdom or even the best insights on
                    the meaning of freedom of expression. Their contribution was sufficient, however, in their
                    recognition of the principle of freedom of speech and press in the Constitution in unqualified and
                    undefined terms.
            
               Legacy of Suppression will take its place as a standard work on the development of
                    our civil liberties and a guide for future writers on the subject.
            Richard M. Jellison, Eastern 
                            Illinois
                         University
            
         
         
            
               Diary in America. By Captain Frederick Marryat. Edited by Jules Zanger. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1960. Pp. 342. Illustrations, appendices, bibliography,
                    notes, index. $6.95.)
            A welcome and delightfully entertaining addition to the literature produced by British visitors to
                    the 
                        United States
                     prior to 1850 is this republication of Captain Frederick Marryat's Diary in America. One of those fortunate few who enjoy more than one successful
                    career, Marryat resigned his commission as captain in the British navy—retiring from a
                    career of nearly a quarter-century that was marked by honor and personal bravery at
                    sea—to attempt the almost equally hazardous life of literature. At the height of his
                    popularity as a novelist he ventured to America; his object, in his own words, was "to
                    examine and ascertain what were the effects of a democratic form of government and
                        climate upon a people which, with all its foreign admixture, may still be considered as
                    English" (p. 46). (Italics are Marryat's.) Arriving in 
                        New York
                     in the spring of 1837, Marryat traveled widely during the eighteen months of his
                    visit—from 
                  Washington, Louisville
               , and 
                        St. Louis
                     on the south, through 
                        Canada
                     on the north, and west into what is now 
                        Minnesota
                     where he hobnobbed with Indians near Fort Snelling. First lionized, later vilified, he
                    was in almost constant hot water with press and public. A speech he gave at 
                        Toronto
                     praising the Canadian handling of the Caroline affair and later
                    bedroom adventures in 
                  Louisville, Kentucky
               , with the wife of a phrenologist
                    provided news of his tour for his detractors.
            More flippant than scholarly, Marryat reflects the same aristocratic prejudices as those of his
                    junketing predecessor Miss Martineau. Possessed of the quick and artistic eye of the novelist, he is
                    at his best when drawing word pictures of the sights, sounds, and smells of the America of the
                    Jacksonian era. When one compares the results of his researches with those of his French
                    contemporary De Tocqueville, the Englishman fares but poorly as a serious interpreter of American
                    democracy. But Marryat could be perceptive, as in this observation worthy of the best in the Turner
                    hypothesis: "We must always bear in mind  the peculiar
                    and wonderful advantages of country [italics Marryat's] when we examine
                    America and its form of government; for the country has had more to do with upholding this democracy
                    than people might at first imagine" (p. 43). By country he meant
                    "the vast extent and boundless resources of the territory" (p. 44).
            Though Marryat enjoyed his tour, and his enjoyment is infectious, he was more favorably impressed
                    with the natural resources and the scenic beauty of the 
                        United States
                     (waterfalls fascinated him) than with the pushy, egalitarian Americans themselves.
                    Eminently readable, his Diary is also very quotable and not ephemeral.
            Professor Zanger's job of editing is extremely helpful. He does however make an error in the
                    identification of Gros Cap (p. 320, note 4). The Gros Cap described by Marryat is the Gros Cap of
                    Lake Superior about ten miles west of Sault Ste. Marie, 
                        Ontario
                    , and not the Gros Cap of Lake 
                        Michigan
                    . Zanger includes a critical introduction of excellent quality in which he corrects
                    earlier misinterpretations of Marryat's itinerary and offers a sound estimate of the
                    historical and literary value of the Diary.
            
            G. G. Hatheway, Purdue University
            
         
         
            
               Louis Agassiz: A Life in Science. By Edward Lurie. (
                        Chicago
                    : University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1960. Pp. xiv, 449. Illustrations, notes, bibliographical essay, index.
                    $7.50.)
            Edward Lurie, a trained historian, has used the techniques of his craft to prepare this satisfying
                    full-length biography of the Swiss-born zoologist who became one of the leaders of science in the 
                        United States
                     in the middle of the ninetenth century. Agassiz was educated in the best European
                    universities, a friend of Cuvier and von Humboldt, and had a world-wide reputation for his studies
                    of fossil fish and for his brilliant exposition of the action of glaciers as a geological force. In
                    1846 he was invited to 
                        Boston
                     to deliver a series of lectures at 
                        Lowell
                     Institute. He soon attracted such favorable attention as a well-informed scientist who
                    could be understood by laymen that he was appointed professor of geology in the new Lawrence
                    Scientific School of 
                        Harvard
                     College. From his 
                        Boston
                     friends Agassiz soon secured funds with which to begin research for a multivolume
                    account of the zoology of America, initiate a study of fishes, and establish a museum for the study
                    of comparative anatomy. For Agassiz the latter meant a collection of every kind of natural history
                    object from all over the world.
            Professor Lurie pictures Agassiz as a skillful teacher, an administrator, and researcher who started
                    many projects on so large a scale that they were never completed, and as a person engaged in
                    frequent controversy with his students and associates over credit for discoveries. Yet at the same
                    time he is shown as possessed with the breadth of vision necessary to initiate the broad-scale
                    development of scientific study and research in the 
                        United States
                    . In cooperation with a handful of other top-flight scientists, Agassiz was most
                    influential in securing government and private financial support and in putting competent  men in positions of leadership. During the Civil War, Agassiz
                    and his friends succeeded in founding the National Academy of Sciences as the chief scientific body
                    in the nation.
            So busy was Agassiz, however, that he did not keep up with the thinking of his fellow scientists, and
                    for a long time he rejected the new views of Darwin on evolution and held to his own belief in
                    special creation. But his cogent arguments in opposition helped to bring about a reaffirmation of
                    Darwin's views. In general, as Lurie points out, scientific leadership in America passed
                    from Agassiz' hands as a result of his stand. Agassiz' lasting monument is the
                    Museum of Comparative Anatomy at 
                  Cambridge, Massachusetts
               , which is today what Agassiz
                    envisioned—a great and well-ordered teaching museum of natural history.
            Professor Lurie develops all these facets of the life of Agassiz, and more. The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press has provided a handsome format, worthy of the important contribution this book
                    makes to the history of science in the 
                        United States
                    .
            Walter B. Hendrickson, MacMurray College
            
         
         
            
               John Coit Spooner: Defender of Presidents. By Dorothy Ganfield Fowler. (
                        New York
                    : University Publishers, 1961. Pp. ix, 436. Frontispiece, bibliographical notes, index.
                    $6.00.)
            Professor Dorothy Ganfield Fowler's biography of John Coit Spooner is a sympathetic but
                    objective study of a lawyer and statesman now almost forgotten. In the late 1890's and
                    during the first six or seven years of the twentieth century, Spooner was one of that small inner
                    circle of 
                        United States
                     senators known as "The Four," who dominated the Senate and exercised
                    unusual influence over the legislative and executive branches of the federal government.
            Beginning with Spooner's family background and his early years in his native 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , Indiana, Mrs. Fowler traces his life in a chronological sequence of events which
                    includes his student years at the University of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , his military service during the Civil War, his career as a railroad attorney in 
                        Wisconsin
                    , his sixteen years in the Senate, his opposition to the rise of Robert M. La Follette,
                    Sr., and his final years of legal practice in 
                        New York
                     City following his resignation from the Senate in 1907 until his death in 1919.
            Readers of this biography who are familiar with the history of the period of Spooner's
                    service in the Senate and with recent studies, published and unpublished, of some of his
                    contemporaries can hardly escape the thought that "conservatives," such as
                    Spooner, W. B. Allison, and S. B. Elkins, were not so reactionary, nor
                    "progressives," such as Albert J. Beveridge, Jonathan P. Dolliver, and Albert B.
                    Cummins, so radical as they seemed to be half a century ago. Spooner, to be sure, was a
                    conservative, but, as Mrs. Fowler ably demonstrates, he was not the "tool" of the
                    railroads or of any other special interest, and Lincoln Steffens did him a grave and unwarranted
                    injustice to include him  among those whom the Muckrakers
                    pilloried as "Enemies of the Republic."
            It was during his last ten years as a senator (1897–1907) that Spooner exercised his
                    greatest power. He was less than enthusiastic about some party measures such as the Dingley tariff
                    bill, and Theodore Roosevelt's "hasty course… in pushing through the
                    Panama Canal project caused Spooner some painful misgivings… " (p. 285), but in
                    general he did defend Presidents McKinley and Roosevelt. One may question, however, whether Spooner
                    was as much of a "defender" of the latter as were Jonathan P. Dolliver, Henry C.
                    Lodge, or Albert J. Beveridge.
            Dorothy Fowler, professor of history at Hunter College, is at her best in describing
                    Spooner's accomplishments as a lawyer and as an adviser on foreign policy. Unfortunately,
                    she sometimes fails to probe deeply enough or to explain with sufficient detail major domestic
                    political and economic developments. For example, her discussion of the efforts to pass the Hepburn
                    Act is quite inadequate, indeed inaccurate in some respects, and her treatment of the development of
                    the Progressive movement is rather superficial. Most disappointing and least understandable is the
                    author's failure to give any explanation whatever for Spooner's resignation from
                    the Senate in 1907 (p. 369).
            The book is amply documented, the index is complete and accurate, and despite its minor shortcomings
                    this is an interesting and much needed biography of a significant senator.
            Thomas Richard Ross, Davis and Elkins College
            
         
         
            
               American Railroads. By John F. Stover. 
                  
                            Chicago
                         History of American Civilization. Edited by Daniel J. Boorstin. (
                        Chicago
                    : University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1961. Pp. xiv, 302. Illustrations, maps, chart, chronology, suggested reading,
                    index. $5.00.)
            This is a welcome addition to the topical group of books in the set of forty-odd volumes being
                    published in the 
                  
                            Chicago
                         History of American Civilization series. Such topical studies as this provide
                    the weft for the warp of the chronological volumes. John R. Stover's subject has special
                    relevance because it fits a dramatic framework—the cycle of rise, maturity, and decline
                    of the American railroad empire. He sees the 130 years of the development of railroads in this
                    country as falling generally into three well-defined eras: (1) the first generation from the
                    beginnings in 
                        Baltimore
                     in 1830 to the important role of railroads in the Civil War; (2) the half-century after 
                        Appomattox
                    , during which a great national rail network was created and finally subjected to close
                    governmental controls in the Progressive era of the early twentieth century; (3) the decades since
                    World War I, a troubled period full of new problems and new competition and presenting the railroads
                    with an uncertain future. Within the compass of 260 pages of text the author covers briefly but
                    clearly such matters as technical improvements, financial corruption in the post Civil War period,
                    regulatory legislation, and wartime accomplishments. He does a good  job not only in describing the growth of railroad transportation in the 
                        United States
                     but also in relating it to the main trends of American social and economic history.
            In so short a volume, however, some questions must be passed over lightly. This is apparently the
                    case with the part played by organized labor in the railroad story. Aside from brief mention of the
                    year of violence in 1877 and Debs and the Pullman strike of 1894, the book contains little
                    information about the organization and early struggles of the railroad workers'
                    brotherhoods and other unions. Yet the author has a good deal to say about such modern labor abuses
                    as "feather-bedding" and their effects upon railroad decline. As the editor of the
                    series writes in the Preface, the Age of the Railroad has its romantic element, but in American Railroads most of this is lost in the rapid pace of the narrative and beneath the
                    heavy but probably necessary burden of statistics—trackage and capitalization figures,
                    freight and passenger rates, number of employees—embedded in the prose of many of its
                    pages. But all in all, Stover has accomplished much in so small a space. The story of American
                    railroading as he tells it has continuity, breadth, and direction. Moreover, he obviously believes
                    in railroads. His last chapter is both a good account of present difficulties and a strong plea for
                    a "healthy, stabilized, and prosperous" American railroad system in the future. In
                    his conclusion he argues persuasively that the drama of the railroads' rise and decline
                    need not become decline and fall.
            Clifton J. Phillips, DePauw University
            
         
         
            
               Fortune's Merry Wheel: The Lottery in America. By John Samuel Ezell. (
                        Cambridge
                    , Mass.: 
                        Harvard
                     University Press, 1960. Pp. viii, 331. Tables, illustrations, bibliographical essay,
                    notes, index. $6.75.)
            For countless generations men have carried on a more or less continuous controversy over gambling: Is
                    it a natural "instinct"? If so, is it "moral" or an evidence of
                    human depravity? In any case, does the state have the right (or the obligation) to regulate, limit,
                    or suppress it? While this ageless dispute has been raging, men have had time to devise ingenious
                    and varied forms of gambling, among which the lottery has occupied a special and, in a sense,
                    honored place.
            In Fortune's Merry Wheel John Samuel Ezell, associate professor of history
                    at the University of 
                        Oklahoma
                    , traces the history of the lottery from its transportation as part of the intellectual
                    baggage brought to colonial America, through its "national mania" phase, to its
                    decline and legislative suppression in the closing years of the nineteenth century. Taken
                    altogether, the book is a detailed and meticulously organized substantiation of the
                    author's thesis that "many an institution has been built on the weakness of
                    man" (p. 281). It is unlikely that any other "weakness" has been
                    exploited for more socially useful purposes than man's fascination for the "lucky
                    lottery." For three centuries Americans used the lottery as a fund-raising device for a  wide range of social welfare projects, extending from providing
                    early 
                        Virginia
                     settlers with food to the building of schools, churches, libraries, and penitentiaries
                    during the nineteenth century.
            Despite the obvious social benefits which the lottery made possible, there were at all times
                    articulate critics of the practice, and during the wave of reform of the period from 1830 to 1860,
                    public opinion began to focus upon the lottery's "abuses and frauds." By
                    the late 1880's a growing feeling that state regulation had proven ineffective led to
                    demands for federal suppression. To these demands Congress responded, beginning in 1890, with a
                    series of laws based upon federal regulatory power over interstate commerce and the mails, which
                    effectively "ended the saga of the American lottery."
            Perhaps the chief significance of Fortune's Merry Wheel lies in Professor
                    Ezell's success in correlating the rise and fall of the lottery with the evolution of
                    social, economic, and political conditions in America over a period of three centuries. A clear
                    relationship is established between the antitax attitudes and the scarcity of capital in colonial
                    and early republican America and the general popularity of the lottery. Similarly, philosophical
                    optimism, a strong streak in American thought during the early nineteenth century, nurtured the
                    growth of the lottery mania. On the other hand, the reform impulse of the ante bellum period and the
                    radical economic and social transformations of the postwar years paved the way for state and,
                    finally, federal abolition.
            In this valuable work only two criticisms seem worth mentioning, and both of them are matters of
                    format and style: the reader must search in the back of the book for the numerous (and enlightening)
                    footnotes, and he may miss some of the lottery's drama and color as a result of Professor
                    Ezell's colony-by-colony, state-by-state, year-by-year organization of his material.
            J. Robert Constantine, Indiana State College
            
         
         
            
               The Welsh in America: Letters from the Immigrants. Edited by Alan Conway. (
                        Minneapolis
                    : University of 
                        Minnesota
                     Press, 1961. Pp. 341. Notes, bibliography, index. $6.00.)
            This excellent volume will be welcomed by researchers in American history. Ably edited by Alan
                    Conway, lecturer in American history at the University College of 
                        Wales
                     in Aberystwyth, this collection of "America" letters tells the story
                    of Welsh emigrants in America during the first seventy-five years of the last century. The greater
                    portion of the letters were printed in various Welsh newspapers and nonconformist denominational
                    periodicals of the time. Others were obtained from the collections of the National Library of 
                        Wales
                     and from individuals. These letters, widely read in the homeland, stimulated Welsh
                    migration to America.
            In 1850, 96 per cent of the Welsh immigrants were living in the northern states, the greatest
                    concentrations being in 
                  New York, Pennsylvania, Ohio,
                            Wisconsin
               , and 
                        Illinois
                    . The greater portion of those in  the midwestern
                    states were farmers whose letters indicate that they were happy in their new homes. At least 90 per
                    cent of their letters encouraged farmers in 
                        Wales
                     to emigrate to the 
                        United States
                    .
            Skilled furnacemen and miners from the industrial parts of 
                        Wales
                     were welcomed in the steel mills and coal mines of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and 
                        Ohio
                    . Their letters describing working and living conditions, strikes, etc. In these areas
                    comprise the most valuable portion of the volume. Because of depressed conditions in the steel and
                    coal industries after the Civil War, these Welsh advised people in the old country not to migrate to
                    America. A comparative few, in the "belief that where there was a hole in the ground there
                    should be a Welsh miner at the bottom of it," went to seek their fortunes in the gold and
                    silver fields of 
                        California
                     and 
                        Colorado
                    . Their letters also discouraged others from following in their footsteps.
            Students of the Civil War will be interested in the letters from Welsh soldiers in the Union army.
                    Surprising to this reviewer was the number of Welsh Mormans who migrated to 
                        Utah
                    . In 1849, 249 Welsh Saints left the homeland for the desert Zion. These were followed
                    in 1856 by 703 others.
            Compared to the great flood of Germans and other continental nationalities to America, the number of
                    Welsh emigrants was indeed small. They did not concentrate in certain communities as did the Germans
                    and Scandinavians in 
                  Wisconsin, Minnesota
               , and 
                        Missouri
                    . Consequently, there is little evidence today that they ever came here. The letters in
                    this volume "tell much more about the influence of America on the Welsh immigrant than vice
                    versa." Nevertheless, they are a valuable addition to our collection of printed source
                    material.
            Powell A. Moore, Indiana University
            
         
         
            
               Seedtime on the Cumberland. By Harriette Simpson Arnow. (
                        New York
                    : The Macmillan Co., 1960. Pp. xviii, 449. Maps, index. $7.50.)
            Mrs. Harriette S. Arnow, a graduate of the University of 
                        Louisville
                    , is the author of three novels—Mountain Path, The Doll
                    Maker, and Hunter's Horn. In her first nonfiction attempt, Seedtime on the Cumberland, she has combined literary talent and historical method
                    to produce an interesting picture of pioneer life in 
                        Tennessee
                     and 
                        Kentucky
                    . Since she was reared in the Cumberland area, this book is admittedly a labor of love.
            The specific locale of Seedtime is the crescent-shaped valley of the
                        Cumberland River, stretching from the mountains of southeast 
                        Kentucky
                     through central 
                        Tennessee
                     to western 
                        Kentucky
                     and the Ohio River. Because the Cumberland drainage basin forms a
                    curious, shoe-like shape on the map, Mrs. Arnow refers to it as the "Old Boot." In
                    point of time, Seedtime covers approximately the last quarter of the eighteenth
                    century.
            The book resembles a historical scrapbook with its fourteen long, rambling chapters. In its pages,
                    Mrs. Arnow portrays the roles of many  people: hunters,
                    settlers, scouts, traders, Indians, and surveyors. She also gives thumbnail sketches of individuals
                    such as Arnold Viele, Colonel William Byrd, Doctor Thomas Walker, John Sevier, James Robertson,
                    Kaspar Mansker, Andrew Jackson, and Nancy Gower. Throughout the book, however, the major theme is
                    the process of pioneering rather than the contributions of particular persons in the westward
                    movement. Actually, "Seedtime on the Cumberland" could be seedtime on almost any
                    western river. The methods and procedures of pioneering were in the main the same.
            
               Seedtime attempts to recapture eighteenth-century life by recalling pioneer
                    architecture, furniture, clothing, implements, and recipes. Mrs. Arnow also calls attention to the
                    fact that there are still extant houses, implements, and recipes that reveal the life and creativity
                    of Cumberland pioneers. The author states that the main purpose of Seedtime on the
                        Cumberland is "to re-create a few of the more important aspects of pioneer life as
                    it was lived on the Cumberland by ordinary men and women" (p. vii). To do this, she has
                    provided infinite detail about pioneer life. She has also made several laudatory generalizations
                    about these people. She points out that they were neither intellectuals nor illiterates and that
                    they were more interested in freedom and independance than in security or even life itself.
            Although Mrs. Arnow says she is not "concerned with the lives of famous men and
                    women" (p. vii), she does mention a number of them who lived in the Cumberland area. In a
                    few cases, she even debunks some of the famous names of the area in an attempt to prove that the
                    less well-known were the true seed of the Cumberland country. For example, she describes Daniel 
                        Boone
                     and John Donelson as unreliable leaders and inept frontiersmen. Although she downgrades
                    the exploits of some of these well-known individuals, she is unable to ignore their accomplishments.
                    At one point she notes that "Middle 
                        Tennessee
                     was a wider world, and though it held many voices and clashing opinions, it was soon to
                    be the voice of the young 
                        United States
                    , ever able to outshout 
                        Clay
                    , Webster, and Calhoun, producing three presidents to 
                        Kentucky
                    's none" (p. 336).
            Drawing upon numerous depositories, Mrs. Arnow has consulted account books, newspapers, travel
                    accounts, wills, inventories, diaries, letters, reminiscences, local histories, and even historical
                    imagination in an attempt to make her portrayal of Cumberland life true and realistic. In some
                    places, she has actually overannotated in her zeal to approach historical accuracy. Seedtime on the Cumberland has a useful index and contains eight maps of the Cumberland
                    area and its surroundings. These maps emphasize transportation, population, and topography.
            This book would be of special value to libraries in 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                    , to frontier collections, and to any scholar or student desiring to learn about the
                    spirit of the frontier.
            Kenneth R. Walker, 
                  
                            Arkansas
                         Polytechnic College
            
         
         
         
            
               Jacksonian Democracy in 
                            Mississippi
                        . By Edwin Arthur Miles. The James Sprunt Studies in History and
                        Political Science, Volume 42. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1960. Pp. 192. Bibliography, index. Paperbound, $2.50.)
            This monograph is a readable summary of politics in the state of 
                        Mississippi
                     from the 1824 presidential campaign through the first years of President Martin 
                        Van
                     Buren's administration. The writer has shown how leaders of 
                        Mississippi
                     reacted to policies of "Jacksonian Democracy" when these policies
                    were implemented at the national level. In the account we see the expression of grassroots sentiment
                    on key domestic issues which we identify with Andrew Jackson: Indian removal, the tariff,
                    nullification, and "Mr. Biddle's Bank."
            To say that Andrew Jackson enjoyed prestige in frontier 
                        Mississippi
                     from his Indian fighting days through the years of his public life would be a gross
                    understatement. That an effective political party would coalesce around his commanding figure was,
                    in the light of southwestern frontier circumstances, almost inevitable. Yet, as Miles demonstrates,
                    there was hardly unanimity among those who rode Old Hickory's coattails. The test facing
                    the ambitious 
                        Mississippi
                     politician in the 1820's and 1830's was simple: How far can I pursue
                    my independent course and still enjoy the protection of the great Jackson name? Senator George
                    Poindexter is the prime example of a Mississippian who felt secure enough to swim against the
                    currents of Jacksonian popularity; most—including Samuel Gwin and Robert J.
                    Walker—drifted with the currents, even when the currents appeared to be flowing upstream.
                    Martin 
                        Van
                     Buren eventually inherited Andrew Jackson's national title but not his aura,
                    and after 1836 the once effective Democratic coalition in 
                        Mississippi
                     splintered away its unity and power.
            In depicting 
                        Mississippi
                     politics of the Jacksonian era, the writer lifts the veil from some of the practical
                    conditions which triggered overt political action. We see, even in this thinly settled state, clear
                    evidence of rural-urban rivalry. We see "pet banks" with varying degrees of fiscal
                    stability and "paper railroads" which would always remain trackless. We observe
                    the corroding effect of land hunger on political principles. And we are given new insights into the
                    perennial American debate which we have come to identify as the state versus federal authority.
                    Professor Mile's study should encourage scholars to explore similar facets of frontier
                    history more diligently. His documentation, based on scores of contemporary newspapers and an
                    impressive array of other primary sources, gives some valuable guidelines.
            The only point on which one might take issue with Miles relates to some indecision (in the Preface)
                    as to whether his study concerns Jacksonian "Democracy" or Jacksonian
                    "democracy." A close reading of the book resolves the dilemma in favor of the
                    capitalized form of the term, for in doing so one finds still further evidence that the early
                    nineteenth century American frontier is not an appropriate place to seek "political
                    democracy" of the idealistic variety.
            Victor M. Bogle, Indiana University
            
         
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Minnesota
                         History: A Guide to Reading and Study. By Theodore C. Blegen and Theodore L.
                    Nydahl. (
                        Minneapolis
                    : University of 
                        Minnesota
                     Press, 1960. Pp. 223. Maps. $5.00.)
            In this volume, twelve units of 
                        Minnesota
                     history, generally arranged in chronological order from prehistoric times to the
                    present, have been developed by means of forty-two topics. Each topic is covered by an outline
                    followed by a "questions and suggestions" section, which in turn is followed by an
                    annotated bibliography. The listed readings are also marked to indicate which would appeal to young
                    readers, which are of general interest, and which are of special importance to each of the forty-two
                    topics. Fourteen maps show the locations of natural resources, trails, roads, railroads, streams,
                    the various Indian tribes, sessions, treaty lines, and reservations. These also follow chronological
                    order.
            Most of the units will be especially useful to the public schools and various local study groups of 
                        Minnesota
                    . Topics useful to 
                        Minnesota
                     groups concern state participation in wars, public welfare and health programs,
                    politics, economics, and the cultural contributions of the inhabitants of the state.
            Of wider scope are units dealing with the power struggle for the upper 
                        Mississippi
                     basin, the explorers, early settlers, fur traders and missionaries—units in
                    which the compilers include standard texts as well as translations of journals and diaries by
                    well-known and some by lesser known voyageurs and couriers de
                    bois.
            
            Also of broad interest are many listings which include documents, letters, diaries, and histories of
                    the Germanic and Scandanavian "old" immigration, plus those of the various ethnic
                    groups of the "new" immigrants from central and southern Europe. These readings
                    cover the movements, trials and tribulations, cultural contributions, Americanization, and gradual
                    social integration of these groups.
            This volume is based on a 1937 edition called 
                  
                            Minnesota
                        , Its History and Its People: A Study Outline with Topics and References, by
                    Blegen, also issued by the University of 
                        Minnesota
                     Press. That volume contains a sketch of the state's history which has not been
                    included in the newer work. As the authors have stated, 
                  
                            Minnesota
                         History and the Gopher Historian, both published by the 
                        Minnesota
                     Historical Society, have been used heavily as a source of articles and documents listed
                    in this volume. An up-to-date, time-saving reference work is the result.
            G. R. Burchfield, 
                  
                            Bloomington
                         High School 
                            Bloomington
                        , Indiana
            
         
         
            
               Mountain Wolf Woman, Sister of Crashing Thunder: The Autobiography of a Winnebago
                        Indian. Edited by Nancy Oestreich Lurie. Foreword by Ruth Underhill. (
                        Ann Arbor
                    : University of 
                        Michigan
                     Press, 1961. Pp. xx, 142. Illustrations, maps, appendices, notes. $4.95.)
            This slim volume is one of the few life histories of any scope recorded for an American Indian woman
                    and is unique in being the second extensive autobiography recorded by a member of the same  immediate Indian family. (Anthropologist Paul Radin edited a
                    very different kind of autobiography by one of Mountain Wolf Woman's brothers, Big
                    Winnebago, called by Radin "Crashing Thunder" [
                        New York
                    , 1926].)
            Mountain Wolf Woman's autobiography was dictated by an "old Winnebago
                    lady" when she was more than 70 years old as a favor to her "niece,"
                    anthropologist Nancy Oestreich Lurie, who had asked her to do so and who understood, without being
                    told, the social implications, relationships, customs, emotions, and scene involved in the events.
                    As a consequence the narrative may sometimes seem obscure or too compressed to a general reader,
                    though it also contains many charming or striking passages.
            While her autobiography naturally reflects a woman's occupations and concerns, Mountain Wolf
                    Woman was conscious of the fact that her activities mirrored events and cultural changes shared by
                    the Winnebago generally. She recognized the fact that Winnebago ways of living had changed during
                    her lifetime and would continue to change. She makes this explicit a number of times, as when, for
                    example she points out that the Indians always found ways to earn a living and when older ways
                    disappeared they tried new ones. She viewed her life as part of a continuing stream of life in which
                    she had played her part and which would continue in the lives of her children and grandchildren. The
                    narrative is especially interesting in its depiction of universal human experiences described from
                    an exotic cultural point of view. It would be interesting to compare this autobiography with that of
                    a rural white woman living in 
                        Wisconsin
                     during the same time period.
            The narrative was recorded on tape in the Winnebago language by Mountain Wolf Woman, to allow her
                    more freedom of expression and to make events easier for her to recall, and then retold by her in
                    English. For the most part she tells her story in chronological order. Nancy Lurie has reproduced
                    the text as faithfully as possible and has restricted her explanatory materials to an extremely
                    illuminating (and necessary) series of notes which indicate how what may seem a fairly bald
                    statement is charged with significance to one who knows Winnebago history, culture, and the
                    relationships involved, a fact which has more general implications for the interpretation of Indian
                    speeches and statements recorded in historical documents.
            Dorothy Libby, Indiana University
            
         
         
            
               The South Sea Bubble. By John Carswell. (
                        Stanford
                    , Calif.: 
                        Stanford
                     University Press, 1960. Pp. xii, 314. Illustrations, appendix, references, index.
                    $5.00.)
            The bursting of the South Sea Bubble at the end of the summer of 1720 nearly ruined the British
                    financial community, brought disgrace and confiscation of property to the directors of the South Sea
                    Company, ended a ministry, cast suspicion on the character of the King and his entourage, and left a
                    web which, until the appearance of this book, has not been satisfactorily untangled. The South Sea
                    Company was  founded in 1711 on the expectation of trade with
                    Spanish America. Engaged primarily in slaving at first, it was an economic failure. But in late 1719
                    and early 1720 it allied itself with the Sword Blade Company and undertook to fund the national
                    debt. Parliament's consent followed considerable shady maneuvering. An orgy of speculation
                    through the summer of 1720 sent South Sea shares to ten times their original value. Gambling was not
                    confined to South Sea stock, and the collapse, when it came, was general.
            The South Sea episode has seldom been treated at any length. Hitherto it has been dealt with in
                    economic histories or as incidental in essentially political histories. The South Sea
                        Bubble is a genuine contribution, for it is the first study of the South Sea Company and
                    the political, economic, and social activities around it. This in itself is no mean task,
                    considering the political and social implications as well as the difficulties of writing financial
                    history, and it is done clearly and well. In addition, there is an attempt to place the South Sea
                    Bubble in context, to determine what forces were behind it and the significance of those forces.
            It is Carswell's opinion that the Bubble was far more than the "grotesque
                    incident" it is sometimes considered, that it is attributable to great economic forces and
                    can be understood only if those forces are understood. Consequently, the English phenomenon is set
                    in a European background which Carswell names the "commercial revolution." This
                    "revolution" was partly the great growth of trade between 1660 and 1720, but it
                    should be understood above all as the widespread experimentation with credit and with money based on
                    property and productivity rather than on metal. John Law's experiments in 
                        France
                     illustrate this tendency perfectly, and considerable space is devoted to them. The
                    South Sea Bubble becomes an example of the economic inventiveness and vitality of the period. Its
                    utter and dismal failure shows that it was economic and political ineptitude which ended the
                    "commercial revolution." Had politicians been aware of the connections between
                    economics and politics, had the business community and the general public had enough experience to
                    practice restraint, the "commercial revolution" might have shaded off into the
                    industrial revolution instead of ending ingloriously and with no apparent constructive results.
            Well-written, carefully organized, based on thorough scholarship, this book should serve as a
                    rewarding and painless antidote to the tendency of many students to ignore the economic aspects of
                    history.
            David Adams, Indiana University
            
         
         
            
               The Idea of Continental Union: Agitation for the Annexation of 
                            Canada
                         to the 
                            United States
                        , 1849–1893. By Donald F. Warner. (
                        Lexington
                    : University of 
                        Kentucky
                     Press, for the Mississippi Valley Historical Association, 1960.
                    Pp. ix, 276. Maps, bibliographical essay, index. $5.00.)
            The conflict between the opposing forces of nationalism and particularism occupies a prominent place
                    in nineteenth-century Canadian history. This is one major theme which runs through Donald
                    Warner's  book, The Idea of Continental
                        Union. Particularism is defined by Warner to mean class and provincial discontent which was
                    expressed in the form of annexation movements designed to join part or all of 
                        Canada
                     to the 
                        United States
                    . This discontent was the centrifugal force which presented a serious obstacle to 
                        Canada
                    's struggle for national unity. Since particularism is a psychological
                    phenomenon usually expressed in group action and political terms, a study of its appearance
                    (together with the form it takes) requires careful investigation and analysis. The author has
                    accomplished both with skill and clarity.
            Currents of annexationist sentiment were especially strong from 1847–1850,
                    1867–1871, 1884–1893. Reaction to economic depression is underlined as the
                    common denominator in all three periods which gave substance and meaning to the idea of continental
                    union. As Warner makes abundantly clear, however, annexationism was not exclusively the product of
                    economic forces. Political and cultural conflicts of an inter-intraprovincial nature were important
                    as secondary causes.
            From 1847 to 1850 basic economic and political grievances set the pattern of response which
                    dissatisfied Canadians were to follow in the future. Canadian merchants, already faced with severe
                    economic depression, were annoyed in 1849 when the British Parliament repealed imperial preference.
                    Their subsequent failure to obtain trade reciprocity with the 
                        United States
                     snapped many ties of empire: "If the American market could not be gained by a
                    treaty, they could enter it through a political union with the Republic" (p. 13). The
                    threat of annexation proved equally useful as a weapon (but not nearly so effective) for other
                    disgruntled Canadians besides merchants. The Parti Rouge, with its program of
                    French nationalit$eA, and English Canadians in Montreal, who feared French domination,
                    played on the same theme to gain group concessions. The failure of these various movements for
                    annexation is explained in detail by Warner; most important was their lack of national support.
            Economic instability and political conflict from 1867 to 1871 excluded thoughts of national unity.
                    Despite the efforts of Sir John A. Macdonald, the Dominion's first prime minister, economic
                    depression and opposition to confederation produced a climate of discontent which in turn nourished
                    annexation movements. "The British North American Act," writes Warner,
                    "had combined the colonies in law but not in spirit" (p. 61). Although the scene
                    shifted from the Maritime Provinces to the sparsely settled territory of western 
                        Canada
                    , much the same drama was acted out. A touch of irony was provided as this sectional
                    response to central authority turned back on itself. Thus in the east the annexation movement,
                    "hastened the coming of confederation, and in the west it had helped to bring the union of
                    the British Northwest with the Dominion" (p. 126).
            In the years 1884 to 1893 a new wave of annexationism returned to trouble the Macdonald government.
                    But, as Warner points out, it was destined to be the last serious threat to Canadian nationalism. As
                    always the primary cause was economic, and once again the movement failed to gain national support.
                    By the turn of the century, prosperity and conciliation had done much to weaken the gravitational
                    pull of 
                    
                        Canada
                    's neighbor to the south. "The Canadian election of 1911, fought on
                    the issue of reciprocity, demonstrated that nationalism had become a major force in 
                        Canada
                    " (p. 242).
            Professor Warner has written an important book for which he was awarded the first
                        Mississippi Valley Historical Association Prize. The petty typographical
                    errors which frequently creep into this publication do not seriously affect the value of the
                    contribution.
            F. Anthony Bonadio, Yale University
            
         
         
            
               The Canadian Historical Review Index, Volumes XXI-XXX, 1940–1949.
                    Compiled by the Editorial Department of the University of 
                        Toronto
                     Press. (
                  Toronto, Canada
               : University of 
                        Toronto
                     Press, 1959. Pp. 404. $15.00.)
            This is the fifth of a series of indexes covering the Review of Historical Publications
                        Relating to 
                            Canada
                        
                and the Canadian Historical Review. The two initial indexes
                    covered Volumes I-XX of the annual Review, founded by George M. Wrong in 1896. The
                    third covered the first ten years of the Canadian Historical Review, established
                    in 1920, while the fourth continued the index for this quarterly to the end of 1939. The present
                    volume covers the Canadian Historical Review for the decade of the
                    1940's. It is to be hoped that a fifth index, for the 1950's, will soon be
                    available.
            The current index includes author and subject entries for items which appeared in the Canadian Historical Review, 1940–1949 (Volumes XXI-XXX). In addition, it
                    includes author and subject entries for titles which appeared in the Review's lists of "Recent Publications Relating to 
                        Canada
                    ." The index appears to have been competently done, and its length suggests
                    that it has been done in a thorough manner. The items included indicate that the editors of the Canadian Historical Review have fortunately viewed Canadian history in a broad
                    context. The result is a guide of substantial value to students of Canadian history. Users of the
                    index, however, will find both advantages and disadvantages in the fact that it is divided into two
                    parts entitled "Author Index" and "Subject Index." The latter is
                    considerably longer than the former.
            This index and its predecessors merit considerable use by students and teachers of Canadian history.
                    Moreover, they deserve use by persons with special interest in the history of Indiana, the Old
                    Northwest, or the 
                        United States
                    . The relationship between the historical development of these areas and Canadian
                    history, though much neglected, is both significant and continuous. The tendency of many persons to
                    view state and regional history in too limited a context is undoubtedly one cause for such neglect,
                    but American colleges and universities also bear much responsibility for it. A number of
                    universities which have or are sprouting courses dealing with various regions and countries of the
                    world still offer but little or even nothing concerning Canadian history. Whatever the reasons,
                    continued neglect of Canadian history by Americans is unfortunate.
            Donald F. Carmony, Indiana University
            
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               Directory of Historical Societies and Agencies in the 
                            United States
                         and 
                            Canada
                        , 1961. Compiled by Clement M. Silvestro and Sally Ann Davis. (
                        Madison
                    , Wis.: American Association for State and Local History, 1961. Pp. 111. Index.
                    Paperbound, $1.50.) This directory, which is described by its title, is a biennial
                    publication of the American Association for State and Local History. The entries in this edition are
                    more complete and perhaps also more accurate than those in the previous one. Nonetheless, increased
                    responses from officers of historical societies and agencies are essential if the directory is to be
                    as current and as accurate as desirable. County historical societies constitute the bulk of the
                    nearly sixty entries for Indiana. The increase in their numbers in recent years is to a significant
                    extent a result of the continued labors and travels of Hubert Hawkins, director of the Indiana
                    Historical Bureau and executive secretary of the Indiana Historical Society. With Indiana's
                    sesquicentennial of statehood only five years away, Indiana counties lacking a local historical
                    society should either organize one or else affiliate with another county or local historical
                    society. Adding strength and quality to the historical societies of the state should be an important
                    and permanent result of Indiana's sesquicentennial program.
            
               
                  
                            Massachusetts
                        , Colony to Commonwealth: Documents on the Formation of Its Constitution,
                        1775–1780. Edited by Robert J. Taylor. Documentary Problems in
                        Early American History. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, for the Institute of Early American History and Culture at 
                        Williamsburg
                    , Va., 1961. Pp. xi, 166. Map. Paperbound, $2.00.) The documents which
                    comprise this useful volume explain and illustrate the process by which 
                        Massachusetts
                     made the transition from a colony within the British Empire to one of the thirteen
                    original states or commonwealths. The editing appears to have been carefully done, and the editorial
                    comment is helpful without being obtrusive. According to Editor Taylor: "The story of the
                    struggle for a constitution in 
                        Massachusetts
                     exemplifies that cardinal principle of the American Revolution, that government shall
                    be by consent of the governed. From the first this was the fixed idea of the Constitutionalists, and
                    the implementation of it gradually became the concern of men all over the state. Their determination
                    bore fruit in a bill of rights and a written constitution drafted by a convention elected for the
                    purpose and ratified by instructed delegates chosen by manhood suffrage. The method of a special
                    convention to draft a constitution and of the popular election of delegates to ratify it was used a
                    few years later to create a new government for the 
                        United States
                    . In its provisions the 
                        Massachusetts
                     Constitution also anticipated to a degree the federal one. The clearly defined
                    separation of powers and the checks and balances provided by a bicameral legislature and a very
                    strong executive were well in advance of the practice of the other states in that day" (p.
                    114–115).
            
            
               The Romantic Appeal of the New West, 1815–1840. By R. Carlyle Buley. (
                        Detroit
                    , Mich.: 
                        Wayne
                     State University Press, for the 
                        Detroit
                     Historical Society, 1961. Pp. 17. Frontispiece. Paperbound.) This booklet preserves the
                    1960 annual Cass Lecture in history which Professor R. C. Buley delivered before members of the 
                        Detroit
                     Historical Society, March 4, 1960. The second paragraph of this lecture suggests its
                    general content and emphasis: "One cannot work long in the history of the Middle West
                    without realizing that over and beyond the factual content, the narrative of events, the interesting
                    data of economic life and politics, the development of institutions—the objective history
                    of the conscientious historian—there is a flavor and spirit impossible to capture in text
                    books, difficult to present in the general histories, and but partially conveyed in the study of
                    literature. Much of the stuff which gives richness to the pattern of life falls in the broad domain
                    of social and cultural history; much of it deals with the sentiments and feelings of those who made
                    the history, and the cold facts of history without an appreciation of these sentiments constitute a
                    carcass without a soul. So I speak briefly on `The Romantic Appeal of the New West' in the
                    years which followed the Second War with Great Britain, with the hope that I may convey something of
                    the spirit of the period and possibly open new paths to the enjoyment of the early history of our
                    region."
            
               Benjamin Harrison, Volume I, Hoosier Warrior: Through the Civil War
                        Years, 1833–1865. Second edition revised. By Harry J. Sievers. (
                        New York
                    : University Publishers, Inc., 1960. Pp. xxx, 374. Illustrations, maps, bibliography,
                    index. $6.00.) Although labeled as a new edition, this volume is substantially the same
                    as the edition which appeared in 1952. It is a detailed study of Harrison's life and career
                    to 1865. Its emphasis is on Harrison's family background, youth, education, practice of law
                    at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the beginning of his political career as a faithful Republican, and his three years of
                    military service in the Civil War. This volume has merit for its exhaustive research and treatment
                    of the early professional, political, and military career of the future president. Nevertheless, it
                    appears longer than desirable, and Father Seviers seems unduly laudatory regarding
                    Harrison's qualities and achievements. Some unfortunate errors of fact appear. For
                    instance, the Miami Indians did not agree to vacate Indiana in 1818 (p. 91n); David Wallace became
                    governor of Indiana in 1837, not 1847 (p. 96n); Morton was not Indiana's "next
                    governor" in 1857 (p. 126), since both 
                        Hammond
                     and Lane held this office before Morton became a successor of Willard. Father
                    Sievers' second volume on Harrison appeared in 1959, while the third and final volume is
                    reported to be nearing completion.
            
               Ante Bellum Studies in Slavery, Politics, and the Railroads. By Robert R. Russel.
                        Faculty Contributions, Series V, Number 1. (
                        Kalamazoo
                    : School of Graduate Studies, Western 
                        Michigan
                     University, 1960. Pp. 98. Bibliography. Paperbound,
                    $⋆⋆⋆.75.) This booklet was prepared for the retirement
                    banquet of Dr. Robert R. Russel at Western 
                        Michigan
                     University, where he served as a member of the history department,
                    1922–1960. It includes six articles concerning slavery, politics, and  railroads which Dr. Russel published in the 
                  Mississippi Valley Historical Review, Journal of Southern
                    History, and Agricultural History, 1925–1956. A bibliography lists
                    several additional articles or monographs published by Professor Russel.
            The general content of the books regarding the Civil War which are listed below is indicated by their
                    titles. In general their authors are already known to Civil War buffs and other students of the
                    tragic conflict between the North and the South, 1861–1865.
            
               From Manassas to 
                            Appomattox
                        : Memoirs of the Civil War in America. Reproduction. By James Longstreet.
                    Edited by James I. Robertson, Jr. Civil War Centennial Series. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1960. Pp. xxix, 692. Illustrations, maps, appendix, notes,
                    index. $8.95.)
            
               War Memoirs: Autobiographical Sketch and Narrative of the War between the 
                            United States
                        . Reproduction. By Jubal Anderson Early. Edited by Frank E. Vandiver. Civil War Centennial Series. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1960. Pp. xlviii, 496. Illustrations, appendix, index.
                    $7.50.)
            
               A History of Morgan's Cavalry. Reproduction. By Basil W. Duke. Edited by
                    Cecil Fletcher Holland. Civil War Centennial Series. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1960. Pp. xvii, 595. Frontispiece, maps, notes, index.
                    $7.50.)
            
               A Confederate Girl's Diary. Reproduction. By Sarah Morgan Dawson. Edited
                    by James I. Robertson, Jr. Civil War Centennial Series. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1960. Pp. xxxvi, 473. Illustrations, notes,
                    $7.50.)
            Three pamphlets pertaining to 
                        Ohio
                     and the Civil War have been received. All were sponsored by the 
                        Ohio
                     Civil War Centennial Commission.
            
               
                  
                            Ohio
                         Handbook of the Civil War. By Robert S. Harper. (
                        Columbus
                    : 
                        Ohio
                     Historical Society, for the 
                        Ohio
                     Civil War Centennial Commission, 1961. Pp. 78. Illustrations, tables, map,
                    bibliography. Paperbound.)
            
               
                  
                            Ohio
                         Troops in the Field. By Edward T. Downer. Publications of the 
                            Ohio
                         Civil War Centenntial Commission, Number 2. (
                        Columbus
                    : 
                        Ohio
                     State University Press, for the 
                        Ohio
                     Historical Society, [1961]. Pp. 34. Tables, notes. Paperbound,
                    $⋆⋆⋆.75.)
            
               The 
                            Ohio
                         Press in the Civil War. By Robert S. Harper. Publications of the 
                            Ohio
                         Civil War Centennial Commission, Number 3. (
                        Columbus
                    : 
                        Ohio
                     State University Press, for the 
                        Ohio
                     Historical Society, [1961]. Pp. 35. Bibliographical note. Paperbound,
                    $⋆⋆⋆.75.)
            
            
               The Life and Works of John Hay, 1838–1905. [Compiled by John R. Turner
                    Ettlinger.] (
                        Providence
                    , R.I.: 
                        Brown
                     University Library, 1961. Pp. xii, 51. Illustrations. $2.00.) As the title
                    page indicates, this brief booklet is "A Commemorative Catalogue of the Exhibition Shown at
                    the John Hay Library of 
                        Brown
                     University in Honor of the Centennial of his Graduation at the Commencement of
                    1858." The Preface indicates the general content of the John Hay Library, while most of the
                    booklet describes writings by and about John Hay. A native of 
                        Salem
                    , Indiana, John Hay (1838–1905) had a distinguished career in American
                    diplomacy and also a significant career as an author. Perhaps if Americans of the 1960's
                    better understood the conservative and imperialistic views personified by John Hay, they would also
                    better understand the nature and significance of the fundamental forces and influences which have
                    modified and shaped American politics and diplomacy during the twentieth century.
            
               Pioneer's Progress. Reprint. By Alvin Johnson. ([Lincoln]: University of 
                        Nebraska
                     Press, 1960. Pp. xviii, 413. Index. Paperbound, $1.85.) This is a reprint
                    edition of Alvin Johnson's autobiography, which was originally published in 1952.
            
               1960 Election Citizenship. By Willard J. Gambold. (
                        Indianapolis
                    , Ind.: Bobbs-Merrill Co., Inc., 1960. Pp. 64. Illustrations, charts, tables, glossary.
                    Paperbound, $1.00.) This booklet, published for school use during the 1960 presidential
                    election campaign, offers information about the office of president, national campaigning, voting
                    for president and vice president, etc. It was apparently designed to increase both interest and
                    knowledge regarding presidential elections on the part of students. This publication is available at
                    considerably reduced prices for quantity orders.
            The Monthly Bulletin of the Indiana State Board of Health devoted its March and
                    April issues, 1961, almost exclusively to a statistical study of population changes in Indiana since
                    1900. The statistical data and comments illustrate changes within counties and also within
                    particular sections of the state (groups of counties). Special attention is given to population
                    changes between 1950 and 1960. The data and comments were prepared by Robert Calhoun, director of
                    the Division of Statistical Research, Indiana State Board of Health. Such information as Calhoun
                    presents is obviously relevant to research concerning public health as well as to public health
                    programs. This information is also useful to students and citizens interested in the impact of
                    population changes on government, education, economic life, and so on. The Monthly
                        Bulletin, edited by Robert Yoho, is published at 1330 West 
                        Michigan
                     Street, 
                        Indianapolis
                     7.
            
               An Archaeological Survey of 
                            Starke County
                        , Indiana. By Duane De Paepe. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Bureau, 1959. Pp. 44. Maps, illustrations. Paperbound.) This
                    township-by-township survey of 
                        Starke County
                     is principally concerned with evidences of prehistoric Indian remains. It makes
                    effective use of maps and illustrations to tell its story. The author's conclusions include
                    the following observations:  "From the material
                    gathered at the sites and that which was observed in several collections, it is apparent that the
                    Indian inhabited 
                        Starke County
                     at least from Early Woodland times up to the period of European contact. Sites which
                    yield no or very little pottery, large crude flint blades and projectile points, and simple
                    problematical forms would seem to suggest a horizon below Early Woodland. This is purely
                    hypothetical, and clear evidence that any site in the area was occupied prior to Early Woodland has
                    not been found" (p. 42).
            
               The Institutional Influence of the German Element of the Population in 
                            Richmond
                        , Indiana. Reproduction. By Fred J. Bartel. Papers of the 
                            Wayne County
                        , Indiana, Historical Society, Volume I, Number 2. ([
                        Richmond
                    : 
                        Wayne County
                    , Indiana, Historical Society], 1961. Pp. 28. Paperbound.) This is a useful and
                    interesting account of the impact of the German element on 
                        Richmond
                    , Indiana, during the nineteenth century. Attention is given to the industrial,
                    religious, educational, social, and political influence of the Germans. The reaction of the Quakers
                    to the German influence is also noted.
            
               Estimated Distribution of 
                            Minnesota
                         Taxes and Public Expenditure Benefits. By O. H. Brownlee. University of 
                            Minnesota
                         Studies in Economics and Business, Number 21. (
                        Minneapolis
                    : University of 
                        Minnesota
                     Press, 1960. Pp. iv, 45. Tables, appendix. Paperbound, $1.50.) This booklet
                    resulted from research undertaken for the 
                        Minnesota
                     Tax Study Committee. It attempts to collect data concerning the distribution of state
                    and local tax burdens among various income groups and the distribution of the benefits of state and
                    local expenditures among these groups. Professor Brownlee, author of this booklet, explains some of
                    the problems and limitations involved in studies such as this. Similar studies have recently been
                    published for 
                        Michigan
                     (1958) and 
                        Wisconsin
                     (1959). Browlee's study, however, was begun earlier than those of 
                        Michigan
                     and 
                        Wisconsin
                     and was available in draft form to the authors of these studies. Although various of
                    Professor Brownlee's conclusions are qualified, he nevertheless offers rather definite
                    observations and conclusions about the diffusion of tax burdens and the distribution of benefits of
                    state and local expenditures in 
                        Minnesota
                    . Such studies do not make exciting reading, but they nonetheless deal with questions of
                    fundamental and continuing importance to citizens.
            The 
                        Evansville
                     Stamp Club has issued Bulletin No. 4 (1959) of its Southwestern Indiana
                        Postal History series. This bulletin includes both new information and corrections
                    regarding items in the club's 1956 publication pertaining to the history of post offices of
                    southwestern Indiana. The 
                        Evansville
                     Stamp Club has its headquarters in the 
                        Evansville
                     Public Museum.
         
      
      
         
         
         
      
   
