
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 53, Issue 1, pages 1-126. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:53+issue:1+year:1957&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Western War Aims, 1811–1812
            Reginald Horsman*
            
            It is an interesting paradox that a war of such insignificant proportions as that of 1812 should have
                    produced such controversy concerning its causes. Nineteenth century historians, with a unanimity
                    more characteristic of that century than of this, in general accepted the view that the war was
                    essentially a struggle to defend American neutral rights and the national honor against the
                    aggressions of Great Britain. In the present century this unanimity has been shattered. Historian
                    after historian has placed his own particular interpretation on the events preceding the outbreak of
                    war in June, 1812.
            Of all the works produced during these years, undoubtedly the most influential has been Julius
                    Pratt's Expansionists of 1812, published some thirty years ago.1
                    Professor Pratt stated in his introduction that he only intended to examine one set of causes of the
                        war,2 but this has not prevented later historians from according the work an
                    importance far out of proportion to this statement. Pratt's main thesis was that a factor
                    of primary significance in the causes of the war was 
                  
                     * Mr. Horsman is a graduate student in the department of history,
                            Indiana University. This paper, here reproduced with minor changes, was presented before the
                            December 8, 1956, meeting of the Indiana History Conference, and was written under the
                            direction of Professor John D. Barnhart.
                  
                     1 Julius W. Pratt, Expansionists of 1812 (
                                New York
                            , 1925). For earlier attempts to modify the nineteenth century interpretations
                            of the war, see D. R. Anderson, "The Insurgents of 1811," American
                            Historical Association Annual Report, 1911 (
                                Washington
                            , 1913), I, 165–176; Howard T. Lewis, "A Re-Analysis of the
                            Causes of the War of 1812," Americana, VI (1911),
                            506–516, 577–585; Christopher B. Coleman, "The Ohio
                                Valley in the Preliminaries of the War of 1812," 
                                Mississippi Valley Historical Review, VII (1920),
                            39–50; Louis M. Hacker, "Western Land Hunger and the War of 1812: A
                            Conjecture," ibid., X (1924), 365–395. It was only
                            with the publication of Pratt's work that attempts at a western interpretation of
                            the war achieved general acceptance.
                  
                     2 Pratt, Expansionists of 1812, 14.
               
                     the western demand that the British, accused of instigating
                    Indian troubles, should be expelled from 
                        Canada
                    . This, he argued, was matched by a southern demand for the Floridas for agrarian,
                    commercial, and strategic reasons. Thus the northern and southern Republicans arrived at an
                    understanding that the acquisition of 
                        Canada
                     on the north was to be balanced by the annexation of the Floridas on the south.3
            
            Since the publication of Pratt's work in 1925 his ideas have exerted a constant influence
                    upon historians—so much so that two standard works on American diplomatic history, Bemis
                    and Bailey,4 both base their final conclusions regarding the origins of the war
                    on Professor Pratt's thesis. Samuel F. Bemis, after dealing mainly with maritime questions,
                    concludes that the War of 1812 was finally caused by a western expansionist urge rather than solely
                    by the grievances of neutral rights and impressment, and as authority for this statement refers to
                        Pratt.5 Thomas A. Bailey, after a more balanced presentation of the origins
                    of the conflict, states that the presence of 
                        Canada
                     probably tipped the scales in favor of war.6 Nevertheless, in spite
                    of these recent acceptances of Pratt's western expansionist theories, his ideas have not
                    gone unchallenged since 1925.
            The most relevant criticisms came in 1931 in two articles by George Rogers Taylor on agricultural
                    conditions in the Mississippi Valley in the years preceding the War of 1812.7 Taylor argued that the westerners were suffering a commercial depression, and
                    that they had a vital interest in British commercial regulations. He endeavored to show that it was
                    not necessary to seek noncommercial motives to explain the western attitude toward the war. These
                    ideas received remarkably little attention during the remainder of the 1930's, though
                    Bernard Mayo 
                  
                     3
                            Ibid., 12–13.
                  
                     4 Samuel Flagg Bemis, A Diplomatic History of the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (3d ed., 
                                New York
                            , 1953); Thomas A. Bailey, A Diplomatic History of the American
                                People (4th ed., 
                                New York
                            , 1950).
                  
                     5 Bemis, Diplomatic History, 156–157.
                  
                     6 Bailey, Diplomatic History, 136.
                  
                     7 George Rogers Taylor, "Prices in the Mississippi
                                Valley Preceding the War of 1812," Journal of Economic
                                and Business History, III (1930), 148–163; Taylor, "Agrarian
                            Discontent in the Mississippi Valley Preceding the War of
                            1812," Journal of Political Economy, XXXIX (1931),
                            471–505.
               
                     in his excellent study of the young Henry Clay enthusiastically
                    endorsed many of Taylor's views.8
            
            It was not until 1941, with the publication of Warren H. Goodman's article on the
                    historiography of the origins of the war, that it was possible to find conveniently summarized the
                    various conflicting theories which had been advanced by historians.9 In this
                    article, the most significant contribution to the problem in recent years, Goodman surveyed the
                    changing interpretations of the war and reasoned that both the advocates of maritime rights as well
                    as of expansionist theories had been too extreme in their views. In his opinion the importance of
                    the northwestern desire to annex 
                        Canada
                     to prevent Indian depredations, and of the southern desire to annex 
                        Florida
                    , had been overestimated, and the articles by Taylor on agricultural conditions in the
                        Mississippi Valley deserved more attention.10
            
            Goodman's plea for a more balanced viewpoint has not had any marked effect on historians in
                    the years since 1941. The major contribution of this period has been Alfred L. Burt's study
                    of the relations of Britain, her North American colonies, and the 
                        United States
                     between 1783 and 1818.11 Professor Burt in this careful study of
                    the diplomacy of the period returned, in some measure, to a nineteenth century view of the war. He
                    argued that the questions of neutral rights and impressment formed the essence of the conflict, and
                    he rejected Pratt's theories concerning peculiarly western aims. Taylor's opinions
                    regarding the depression in the Mississippi Valley were not considered in
                    Burt's arguments, though he briefly pointed out the importance of the commercial depression
                    in the southern states in arousing anger against 
                        England
                    .12 This southern aspect of the origins of the war received more
                    detailed treatment in July, 1956, in an article by Margaret K. Latimer on 
                        South Carolina
                     as a protagonist 
                  
                     8 Bernard Mayo, Henry Clay: Spokesman of the New
                            West (
                                Boston
                            , 1937). This work contains one of the best discussions of the origins of the
                            war, though it has received scant attention from historians.
                  
                     9 Warren H. Goodman, "The Origins of the War of 1812: A
                            Survey of Changing Interpretations," 
                                Mississippi Valley Historical Review, XXVIII (1941),
                            171–186.
                  
                     10
                            Ibid., 180–185.
                  
                     11 Alfred L. Burt, The 
                                    United States
                                , Great Britain, and British North America, from the Revolution to the
                                Establishment of Peace after the War of 1812 (
                                New Haven
                            , 1940).
                  
                     12
                            Ibid., 211–224, 305–310.
               
                     of the conflict.13 Miss Latimer contended
                    that 
                        South Carolina
                     favored the war against 
                        England
                     because of the depressed state of her export trade in cotton. She also briefly
                    suggested that the West saw in war the solution of its commercial difficulties.14
            
            Professor Pratt has not allowed the various attacks on his theories to go unchallenged. Both in his
                    1941 review of Burt's volume,15 and in his general history of American
                    foreign policy, published in 1955,16 he restated his opinions concerning the
                    importance of particular western demands. He has not, however, offered anything essentially new,
                    though he now acknowledges that depressed agricultural conditions were a factor in 
                        American
                     anger.17 Professor Pratt still stands by the theories which he
                    first produced some thirty years ago.
            There still remains therefore considerable divergence on this question of the origins of the War of
                    1812, and of why the West so enthusiastically gave its support to the war measures. The three main
                    streams of opinion, exemplified by the views of Pratt, Taylor, and Burt, in turn show the
                    war-supporters as eager to revenge Indian depredations by the conquest of 
                        Canada
                    , desperate and angry owing to the loss of overseas markets for their goods, and burning
                    with patriotic anger at British aggressions, particularly impressment. The tendency of other
                    historians in studying this confused topic is either to list divergent reasons for war without any
                    attempt at division into degrees of importance, or to choose one reason and to relegate the others
                    to a position of relative insignificance. Yet, in spite of this confusion, it does seem possible to
                    create some pattern from this jigsaw of neutral rights, agricultural depression, expansionism, and
                    fear of Indian attack, and to assess the relative importance of causes.
            The question of overseas markets for American produce is undoubtedly basic to the problem of why the
                    West and 
                  
                     13 Margaret Kinnard Latimer, "
                                South Carolina
                            —A Protagonist of the War of 1812," American
                                Historical Review, LXI (1956), 914–929.
                  
                     14
                            Ibid., 928.
                  
                     15
                            American Historical Review, XLVII (1941), 87–89.
                  
                     16 Julius W. Pratt, A History of 
                                    United States
                                 Foreign Policy (
                                New York
                            , 1955).
                  
                     17
                            American Historical Review, XLVII (1941), 88.
               
                     the South led America to war in 1812. The factor that originally
                    led historians to seek non-commercial causes for the conflict was that in the vote for war in
                    Congress, the Northeast, the foremost commercial and shipping area, was the section opposed to the
                        conflict.18 This, however, is not a reason for supposing that non-commercial
                    factors were the primary cause of the war. The fact is that the shippers of 
                        New England
                    , engaged in an extensive wartime carrying trade, were able, in spite of British
                    restrictions, to make a considerable profit.19 They were quite prepared to
                    condone British practices and oppose war with that country as long as these profits were available.
                    They realized that they had much to lose by war. Abstract questions of neutral rights bore little
                    weight with the commercial New Englander waxing rich in spite of all foreign restrictions.
            The case was much different in the West and South. These areas harbored the producers not the
                    carriers. They were not concerned with the vast profits of the carrying trade but with the more
                    marginal question of selling their produce. The South, it is commonly agreed, depended to a great
                    extent on her export of tobacco and cotton, but in the case of the West there has been disagreement.
                    Writers have, on occasion, taken the view that as the West was in a primitive agricultural state it
                    was not concerned with the matter of exporting its produce.20 It is true that
                    the West was not engaged in an extensive overseas export trade, but the fact that its overseas
                    exports were small made it all the more essential that this trade should not be interrupted. The
                    farmer of the West needed purchasing power for his land, for manufactured articles, and for small
                    luxuries in his home and diet.21 This fact has been brought out by Taylor in his
                    two articles, and he also shows, by a careful consideration of the prices for western produce at 
                        New Orleans
                    , that in the years from 1808 to 1812 the Mississippi Valley was in
                    a period of agricultural depression. At a time when costs 
                  
                     18 See Charles O. Paullin and John K. Wright, Atlas of
                                the Historical Geography of the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                Washington
                            , 1932), 109.
                  
                     19 Samuel E. Morison, The Maritime History of 
                                    Massachusetts
                                
                      (
                                Boston
                            , 1941), 191.
                  
                     20 See, for example, Hacker, "Western Land Hunger
                            …," 
                                Mississippi Valley Historical Review, X, 366.
                  
                     21 Taylor, "Prices in the Mississippi
                            Valley …," Journal of Economic and Business
                                History, III, 148.
               
                     were remaining stationary or even rising, the prices which
                    farmers could obtain for their produce were falling rapidly.22
            
            The important fact, however, is not that there was a depression but that the westerners attributed
                    this depression to British commercial restrictions. Throughout the debates of the Twelfth Congress
                    in 1811 and 1812 it is apparent that westerners and southerners were convinced that the British were
                    ruining the overseas market. Frequently, in works stressing western expansionist urges as the basic
                    cause for war, the words of Henry Clay and Richard M. Johnson of 
                        Kentucky
                    , of Peter B. Porter of western 
                        New York
                    , and of Felix Grundy of 
                        Tennessee
                    , have been quoted. These men have been taken as living proofs of the dominating urge of
                    the West to take 
                        Canada
                     and subdue the Indians. A careful consideration of their speeches in Congress shows,
                    however, that though they spoke with feeling and eloquence of the atrocities of the Indians and of
                    taking 
                        Canada
                    , the dominating themes of their speeches were the questions of maritime rights,
                    especially the right to export American produce.
            On December 6, 1811, Peter B. Porter opened the debate on the report of the Foreign Relations
                        Committee,23 of which he was chairman. He stated: "The committee
                    thought that the Orders in Council, so far as they go to interrupt our direct trade, that is, the
                    carrying of the productions of this country to a market in the ports of friendly nations, and
                    returning with the proceeds of them—ought to be resisted by war."24 He was maintaining, in no uncertain terms, that the 
                        United States
                     should fight for the right to sell her produce. His brother War Hawks gave him full
                    support. The greatest War Hawk of them all, Henry Clay, contended that, "to-day we are
                    asserting our right to the direct trade—the right to export our cotton, tobacco, and
                    other domestic produce to market."25 Clay was echoing the sentiments of
                    his fellow Kentuckian, Richard M. Johnson, who, as far back as April 16, 1810, had argued that there
                    was no doubt that America 
                  
                     22
                            Ibid., 154–163.
                  
                     23 On the Foreign Relations Committee were a group of ardent
                            war-supporters: John C. Calhoun, Joseph Desha, Felix Grundy, John A. Harper, and Peter B.
                            Porter. The report of the committee was presented on November 29. Annals of
                                Congress, 12th Cong., 1st Sess., 373–377.
                  
                     24
                            Ibid., 414.
                  
                     25
                            Ibid., 601, Dec. 31, 1811.
               
                     had just cause of hostility: "At this moment 
                        France
                     and Great Britain have decrees in force, which regulate at their pleasure the
                    exportation of our own produce—the produce of our own soil and labor."26 This was not a question of the westerners urging war to defend the carrying
                    trade of 
                        New England
                    , but the westerners claiming the right to export the produce of their own area. Felix
                    Grundy of 
                        Tennessee
                    , who is regarded as one of the most fervent Indian haters and supporters of the drive
                    for 
                        Canada
                     said, on December 9, 1811, that the point of contention between the 
                        United States
                     and Great Britain "is the right of exporting the productions of our own soil
                    and industry to foreign markets."27
            
            The westerners received full support in this connection from their allies of the South, and it would
                    appear that this unity stemmed from a common interest in the sale of their produce. Robert Wright
                    from 
                        Maryland
                     stated on December 11, 1811, after a violent attack on British restrictions on American
                    trade, that "we are to look for the cause of the reduction of the prices of our cotton and
                    tobacco in the political and commercial history of Europe."28 John C.
                    Calhoun, talking of the people of the South, said that "they see in the low price of the
                    produce, the hand of foreign injustice."29
            
            This commercial desire of the war party did not go unnoticed by the opposition. Historians favoring
                    the western expansionist theory have been fascinated by John Randolph of 
                        Virginia
                    ,30 who so passionately denounced the westerners for seeking a war
                    of aggression. A favorite quotation is his famous "we have heard but one
                    word—like the whip-poor-will, but one eternal monotonous tone—
                        Canada
                    ! 
                        Canada
                    ! 
                        Canada
                    !"31 It is forgotten that in his wandering half-demented
                    diatribes 
                        Randolph
                     attributed practically every reason for desiring war to the War Hawks. Other less
                    vehement, but perhaps more sane, members of the opposition saw other motives behind the desires of
                    the war party. On 
                  
                     26
                            Ibid., 11th Cong., 2d Sess., 1869.
                  
                     27
                            Ibid., 12th Cong., 1st Sess., 424; see also ibid.,
                            487–503.
                  
                     28
                            Ibid., 470.
                  
                     29
                            Ibid., 482, Dec. 12, 1811; see also ibid., 682.
                  
                     30 See, for example, Pratt, Expansionists of 1812,
                            141–144; Hacker, "Western Land Hunger …," 
                        Mississippi Valley Historical Review, X, 376.
                  
                     31
                            Annals of Congress, 12th Cong., 1st Sess., 533, Dec. 16, 1811.
               
                     December 13, 1811, Adam Boyd of 
                        New Jersey
                     stated bluntly: "You go to war for the right to export our surplus
                    produce—tobacco, cotton, flour, with many other articles."32
                    Daniel Sheffey of 
                        Virginia
                    , in a long and penetrating speech on January 3, 1812, came to this conclusion:
                    "No! the nominal repeal of the Orders in Council is not your object. It is the substantial
                    commercial benefit which you conceive will follow that act, that forms the essence of the
                    controversy. The unmolested commerce to 
                        France
                     and her dependencies is the boon for which you are going to war. This is the real
                    object, disguise it as you will."33 Such observations of the opposition
                    may of course have been completely unfounded, but it is at least possible to give them as much
                    weight as the exponents of the expansionist theories give to the utterances of 
                        Randolph
                    .
            In the West itself there seems much evidence that the representatives in Congress were only
                    reflecting the views of their constituents. Bernard Mayo in his biography of Clay states, after an
                    examination of 
                        Kentucky
                     newspapers, that "unprecedented hard times" caused by
                    Britain's illegal monopoly was the constant theme of distressed farmers in this period from
                    1810 to 1812.34 On December 10, 1811, the Reporter of
                            
                  Lexington, Kentucky
               , stated: "It appears that our government will at
                    last make war, to produce a market for our Tobacco, Flour, and Cotton."35 A particularly significant series of petitions was presented to Congress from 
                        Mississippi
                     Territory in September and November, 1811.36 There were two
                    petitions from the inhabitants of the territory, and one from the territorial legislature. All the
                    petitions requested that the payment of instalments on the petitioners' land should be
                    deferred until a later date, owing to a lack of specie. The petitioners stated that they were
                    dependent upon foreign commerce for money, and that the price of cotton had been so reduced that
                    they could not discharge the annual expenses of their families, much less pay for their lands. All
                    three petitions attributed this 
                  
                     32
                            Ibid., 521.
                  
                     33
                            Ibid., 623.
                  
                     34 Mayo, Henry Clay, 382–383.
                  
                     35
                            Reporter (
                        Lexington,
                                    Kentucky
                     ), Dec. 10, 1811, quoted
                            in Taylor, "Agrarian Discontent …," Journal of
                                Political Economy, XXXIX, 500.
                  
                     36 Clarence E. Carter (ed.), The Territorial Papers of
                                the 
                                    United States
                                , VI, The Territory of 
                                    Mississippi
                                : 1809–1817 (
                                Washington
                            , 1938), 226–227, 238–240, 241–242.
               
                     to the destructive effects of foreign restrictions upon American
                    commerce. The petition of November 11 admirably summarized the importance of foreign commercial
                    regulations to this area of the West: "The Severe pressure of the times arising From the
                    unjust Edicts of Foreign Governments, and the unpresedented State of the world … the
                    Violation of the legitimate and well Established Rights of neutral Commerce on the high seas, to
                    which the Belligerents of Europe have resorted Are not confin'd in their Destructive
                    consequences to the Commercial enterprize of our Country—But their effects are seen and
                    Felt among the humble Cultivators of the Soil—Who Depend for the reward of their
                    laborious Occupations on an Opportunity to convey the Sur-pless Products of their Industry to Those
                    Countries in which they are consumed."37
            
            There seems little doubt that the West, through its representatives in Congress and on the frontier
                    itself, had a vital interest in its export market, and that it was attributing the loss of this
                    market and the subsequent decline in prices primarily to British commercial restrictions. It is not
                    surprising then that in Congress in 1811 and 1812 the western representatives spoke vigorously of
                    the need to defend American maritime rights—this was not, as the advocates of the
                    expansionist theories would maintain, simply a facade, hiding the real western desire to conquer 
                        Canada
                    ; it was a genuine feeling that if the West and South were to have a market for their
                    produce British restrictions would have to be resisted.
            In reading works such as Pratt it is possible to obtain the impression that the War Hawks talked
                    constantly of 
                        Canada
                     and of the Indians, and ignored maritime questions. This was not the case; by far the
                    greater part of the argument of the War Hawks was devoted to attacking British maritime
                    depredations. They had a material interest in doing this, and what is more they had a genuine
                    feeling that American national honor was suffering from British action at sea. Many of these men
                    were young38 and proud, 
                  
                     37
                            Ibid., 239.
                  
                     38 Ages of some of the War Hawks when Congress met: William Lowndes,
                            29; John C. Calhoun, 29; George M. Troup, 32; 
                                Israel
                             Pickens, 31; Henry Clay, 34; Felix Grundy, 34; Langdon Cheves, 36. See James L.
                            Harrison (ed.), Biographical Directory of the American Congress:
                                1774–1949 (
                                Washington
                            , 1950).
               
                     and were willing to combine the principles of self-interest and
                    honor. They felt anger at the British regulations which they thought had produced the commercial
                    distress, and they felt anger at all the other British infringements of American rights. Only a
                    quarter of a century before, the 
                        United States
                     had struggled for independence against a country which now ignored this new-won
                    freedom. The leaders of these War Hawks were young men who had been raised on the traditions of the
                    War of Independence. The older generation, well represented by 
                        Jefferson
                     and 
                        Madison
                    , were "first generation revolutionaries"—men who had
                    gambled for independence, had won, and were in their later years little inclined to risk their
                    winnings in an uncertain war with 
                        England
                    . Henry Clay and his young allies were the "second generation
                    revolutionaries"—young men who were willing to take chances with the hard-won
                    gains of their parents. They had grown to manhood hearing oft-repeated tales of the War of
                    Independence, but they themselves had long been compelled to suffer without retaliation the constant
                    infringement of American rights. The generation of the War Hawks had come of age during a period in
                    which American seamen were being taken from American ships, and in which Britain had attempted to
                    tell America how and what she should export. It is not surprising that when to these acts was added
                    growing agricultural distress there was an ever-increasing cry for war.
            The report of the Foreign Relations Committee of November 29, 1811,39
                    recommending war preparations for the 
                        United States
                    , concerned itself exclusively with maritime matters. This report, which bluntly stated
                    that the time for submission was at an end, objected bitterly to British commercial regulations and
                    to the practice of impressment. It summarized the essential cause of complaint against Great Britain
                    with the argument that the 
                        United States
                     claimed the right to export her products without losing either ships or men.40 The arguments of the War Hawks in the ensuing debates clearly followed the
                    lines of reasoning laid down in this report. Their leaders agreed that war was necessary against
                    Britain for the defense of American maritime interests and honor. Richard M. Johnson of 
                        Kentucky
                     speaking 
                  
                     39
                            Annals of Congress, 12th Cong., 1st Sess., 373–377.
                  
                     40
                            Ibid., 376.
               
                     on December 11, 1811, certainly discussed 
                        Canada
                    , as quoted by Pratt,41 but previously he had stated:
                    "Before we relinquish the conflict, I wish to see Great Britain renounce the piratical
                    system of paper blockade; to liberate our captured seamen on board her ships of war; relinquish the
                    practice of impressment on board our merchant vessels; to repeal her Orders in Council; and cease,
                    in every other respect, to violate our neutral rights; to treat us as an independent
                        people."42
            
            In speech after speech the War Hawks echoed Johnson's sentiments.43
                    Orders in Council, illegal blockades, impressment, and the general terms of neutral rights and
                    national honor dominated their arguments. Clay himself stated on December 31, 1811: "What
                    are we not to lose by peace?—commerce, character, a nation's best treasure,
                        honor!"44 Clay's whole argument in this speech was for the
                    necessity of war to defend American maritime rights.
            The letters of the War Hawks appear to support their public utterances. George W. Campbell, Senator
                    from 
                        Tennessee
                    , wrote to Andrew Jackson that it is "difficult to perceve [sic] how war can be avoided, without degrading the national character, still lower.
                    … For there is no ground to expect G. Britain will abandon her system of depredation on
                    our commerce, or her habitual violations of the personal rights of our citizens in the impressment
                    of our seamen."45 George M. Troup of 
                        Georgia
                     wrote to Governor David B. Mitchell on February 12, 1812, denouncing all further
                    temporizing or indecision. He wanted either war or an open abandonment of the
                    contest—nothing else would satisfy the just expectations of the southern people,
                    "who have been bearing the brunt of the restrictive system from the beginning."46 William Lowndes of 
                        South Carolina
                     was confident in December, 1811, that unless 
                        England
                     repealed her Orders in 
                  
                     41 Pratt, Expansionists of 1812, 52.
                  
                     42
                            Annals of Congress, 12th Cong., 1st Sess., 457.
                  
                     43
                            Ibid., 425, 467–475, 483–490, 502, 509,
                            517–518, 637, 658, 678–691.
                  
                     44
                            Ibid., 599.
                  
                     45
                            
                                Campbell
                             to Jackson, Dec. 24, 1811, John Spencer Bassett (ed.), The
                                Correspondence of Andrew Jackson (6 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1926–1933), I, 212.
                  
                     46 Troup to 
                                Mitchell
                            , Feb. 12, 1812, Edward J. Harden, The Life of George M. Troup
                            (Savannah, 1859), 107.
               
                     Council, there would be war before the end of the session.47 These westerners and southerners were vitally interested in maritime
                    questions, and showed a very real awareness of the long years of British depredations upon American
                    commerce.
            Pratt's thesis that a factor of primary importance in producing the war was the desire of
                    the westerners to prevent Indian troubles by expelling the British from 
                        Canada
                    , has exerted such influence that it requires careful investigation. Some writers,
                    notably Louis Hacker in his article on western land hunger, and Burt in his detailed study of this
                    period, have attempted to eliminate the Indian problem as a factor in persuading the westerners to
                    demand war.48 It would seem from the available evidence that these writers are
                    wrong in completely ignoring the Indian factor. Though it seems likely that the dominant motives of
                    the West were related to British maritime actions, the importance, in certain areas, of the fear of
                    British instigation of the Indians should not be underestimated. It seems likely in fact that,
                    particularly after 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , the suspected British backing of Indian depredations was of definite importance in
                    bringing matters to a head, and in convincing the already aroused westerners that some warlike
                    action against Great Britain was needed.
            There is no doubt that the presence of hostile Indians on the frontier was of great importance to the
                    westerners. Any careful study of the records of this period inevitably leads one to that conclusion.
                    The debates of the Twelfth Congress and the territorial papers of Indiana, 
                        Michigan
                    , and 
                        Louisiana
                    -
                        Missouri
                    , have constant references to the Indian problem.49 One has only to
                    read the letters of Governor William Henry Harrison of Indiana to the War Department 
                  
                     47 Lowndes to his wife, Dec. 7, 1811, Harriott Horry (Rutledge)
                            Ravenel, Life and Times of William Lowndes of South, Carolina (
                                Boston
                            , 1901), 90.
                  
                     48 Hacker, "Western Land Hunger …," 
                                Mississippi Valley Historical Review, X, 372–374;
                            Burt, 
                        
                                    United States
                                 and Great Britain, 305–310.
                  
                     49 See the debates of the Twelfth Congress passim,
                            especially those of December, 1811; also, Carter, The Territorial Papers of the 
                                    United States
                                , VIII, The Territory of Indiana,
                            1810–1816 (
                                Washington
                            , 1939); X, The Territory of 
                                    Michigan
                                , 1805–1820 (
                                Washington
                            , 1942); XIV, The Territory of 
                                    Louisiana
                                -
                                    Missouri
                                , 1806–1814 (
                                Washington
                            , 1949).
               
                     to realize the extent to which the thinking of certain areas of
                    the West was dominated by this factor.50
            
            Even more important from the point of view of this study is that there was no doubt in the minds of
                    the settlers that the British were instigating the action of the Indians. On July 31, 1811, the
                    citizens of 
                        Vincennes
                    , Indiana, adopted a series of resolutions to petition the President regarding the
                    danger from the Indians. The third of these petitions stated: "That we are fully convinced
                    that the formation of this combination headed by the Shawanese prophet, is a British scheme, and
                    that the agents of that power are constantly exciting the Indians to hostility against the 
                        United States
                    ."51
            
            In August the 
                  
                            Kentucky
                         Gazette stated that "we have in our possession information which
                    proves beyond doubt, the late disturbances in the West to be owing to the too successful intrigues
                    of British emissaries with the Indians."52 The encounter at 
                        Tippecanoe
                     on November 7, 1811, crystallized this western sentiment and convinced the settlers
                    that British intrigues were bringing desolation to the frontier. Whatever the British policy was in
                    reality, the American settlers undoubtedly were convinced that it was inciting the Indians to
                    aggressive warfare.
            The fact that the frontiersmen connected the British and the Indians is no reason for supposing that
                    the prevention of this alliance was the dominating motive in the vote of Congress
                    for war in 1812. This view fails to take into consideration several relevant facts. In the first
                    place, the core of the feeling against the Indians was in the exposed northwest
                    frontier—in the Indiana, 
                        Michigan
                    , and 
                        Illinois
                     territories, and it should be remembered that these areas had no vote in Congress. It
                    is true, of course, that the anger against the supposed British inciting of the Indians was felt
                    deeply outside the immediately exposed area—
                        Kentucky
                     was much incensed at the Indian depredations and Kentuckians fought and were killed at 
                        Tippecanoe
                    ;53 also Andrew Jackson 
                  
                     50 Logan Esarey (ed.), Messages and Letters of William
                                Henry Harrison (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1922); this is Volume VII of the Indiana Historical Collections.
                  
                  
                     51
                            Ibid., 541.
                  
                     52
                            
                        
                                    Kentucky
                                 Gazette, August 27, 1811, quoted in Ellery L. Hall, "Canadian
                            Annexation Sentiment in 
                                Kentucky
                             Prior to the War of 1812," Register of the 
                                    Kentucky
                                 State Historical Society, XXVIII (1930), 375.
                  
                     53
                            Annals of Congress, 12th Cong., 1st Sess., 425–426.
               
                     son wrote from 
                        Tennessee
                     offering Harrison the use of his forces after that encounter.54
                    Yet, it is essential to realize that of the 79 votes for war in the House only a total of nine votes
                    came from the states of 
                  Kentucky, Tennessee
               , and 
                        Ohio
                    , while a total of 37 came from the South Atlantic states of 
                  Maryland, Virginia
               , North and 
                        South Carolina
                    , and 
                        Georgia
                    . 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , a state of limited frontier area by this period, alone provided 16 votes for war.55 There is no doubt that the leaders of the movement for war were often
                    westerners, whether from the Ohio Valley, frontier 
                        New Hampshire
                    , or western 
                        New York
                    , but the actual vote for war depended on non-frontiersmen. The Indian menace
                    undoubtedly influenced frontier areas, and in some was the dominating factor, but it seems unlikely
                    that the large vote for war in non-frontier areas was inspired by a desire to protect the northwest
                    frontier from Indian depredations. The importance of the argument concerning Indians in the
                    Congressional debates of 1811 and 1812 has been greatly overestimated. British encouragement of the
                    Indians was discussed in the war debates but it was discussed in connection with other factors. A
                    reference to the murderous savages urged on by the British provided a fine emotional climax to any
                    speech, but it would appear that the argument which united the 79 representatives of diverse
                    sections to vote for war was the more generally applicable one of the need to sell produce in order
                    to live.
            Arising out of the Indian problem is the important question of the demand for 
                        Canada
                    . It may well be asked that if the dominant motive for war was not a desire to shatter
                    the Anglo-Indian alliance, how can the fervent demand for the conquest of 
                        Canada
                     be explained? The two theses explaining the demand for 
                        Canada
                     which have received the most general support are those of Hacker and Pratt. Hacker56 saw the reason for this, and for war itself, in a desire for Canadian land.
                    Pratt disagreed with him and, in a subsequent article, effectively demonstrated the weaknesses 
                  
                     54 Jackson to William Henry Harrison, Nov. 30, 1811, Bassett, Correspondence of Andrew Jackson, I, 210.
                  
                     55 See Annals of Congress, 12th Cong., 1st Sess.,
                            1637, for list of voters; Paullin and Wright, Atlas of Historical
                            Geography, 109, gives an analysis of the vote for war.
                  
                     56 See footnote 1.
               
                     in Hacker's argument.57 Pratt
                    considered, of course, that the demand for 
                        Canada
                     arose from the supposed British instigation of the Indians. This view is worthy of
                    careful consideration. Indeed it appears that in the case of certain areas—particularly
                    the Indiana and 
                        Michigan
                     Territories—the desire to quench support for the Indians was probably the
                    dominating wish in the minds of the settlers in 1811 and 1812. Yet, while it is true that much of
                    the debating of the Twelfth Congress was concerned with plans for the conquest of 
                        Canada
                    , it would appear that in general these aims were not primarily inspired by a desire to
                    prevent British support of the Indians.
            Burt, in his detailed work on Britain, America, and 
                        Canada
                    , suggests, without detailed elaboration, that the conquest of 
                        Canada
                     was anticipated as the seizure of a hostage rather than as the capture of a prize.58 It would seem from the debates in Congress that this was indeed the case. The
                    key fact is that almost exclusively in their speeches the War Hawks first considered the reasons why war was necessary, and dwelt on maritime grievances, and then, when
                    turning to the methods of waging war, discussed the question of invading 
                        Canada
                    . It is true that the war party saw in the conquest of 
                        Canada
                     an opportunity to prevent further Indian depredations, but there seems no reason to
                    believe that this was in itself a sufficient reason for the war party to achieve such general
                    support in 1812. The various sections of the 
                        United States
                     were not sufficiently altruistic for the South Atlantic states to demand war and the
                    conquest of 
                        Canada
                     for the purpose of relieving the Northwest from Indian attacks. Yet, the demand for 
                        Canada
                     entered into the speeches of the southerners as it did into the speeches of the western
                    War Hawks. Pratt explained this away by contending that there was a sectional bargain, by which the
                    South was to obtain 
                        Florida
                    , and the West, 
                        Canada
                    ; but, as Goodman and Burt clearly show,59 and as is apparent in the
                    debates in Congress, the demand for 
                        Florida
                     was a comparatively negligible factor in the actual demand for war. 
                  
                     57 Julius W. Pratt, "Western Aims in the War of
                            1812," 
                                Mississippi Valley Historical Review, XII (1925),
                            36–50.
                  
                     58 Burt, 
                        
                                    United States
                                 and Great Britain, 310.
                  
                     59 Goodman, "Origins of the War of 1812," 
                                Mississippi Valley Historical Review, XXXIII,
                            180–181; Burt, 
                        
                                    United States
                                 and Great Britain, 306.
               
                     There seems little evidence to support the thesis that the South
                    supported the demand for 
                        Canada
                     in return for western support of southern claims to 
                        Florida
                    .
            Calhoun, the young South Carolinian, clearly stated the reasons for southern support of Canadian
                    conquest, and helped to explain the general attitude of the war party, in a speech on December 12,
                    1811. In answering 
                        Randolph
                    's taunt that the Canadas bore no relation to American shipping and maritime
                    rights he stated: "By his system, if you receive a blow on the breast, you dare not return
                    it on the head; you are obliged to measure and return it on the precise point on which it was
                    received. If you do not proceed with mathematical accuracy, it ceases to be just self-defence; it
                    becomes an unprovoked attack."60 This gives the essence of the matter.
                    Once the War Hawks had decided they wanted war, they were obliged to face the problem of where they
                    could injure their mighty foe. At sea it seemed that there was little hope. Britain's vast
                    navy, which had swept 
                        France
                     from the seas, was to be matched against a handful of American frigates. Apart from the
                    activities of American privateers there seemed little hope of waging effective war against Britain
                    on the sea. The conquest of 
                        Canada
                     was the obvious, if not the only method of injuring Britain. Clay's speech of
                    February 22, 1810,61 has been quoted as one of the first appeals for the
                    conquest of 
                        Canada
                    : "The conquest of 
                        Canada
                     is in your power" are words of joy to the expansionist historian.62 Yet these words were said after Clay had discussed British mercantile
                    spoliations, and after he had stated that as peaceful measures had failed it was time for resistance
                    by the sword. He then tried to convince the weak and vacillating Eleventh Congress that war against
                    Great Britain was practicable, and that injury could be inflicted upon their enemy: "It is
                    said, however, that no object is attainable by war with Great Britain. In its fortunes, we are to
                    estimate not only the benefit to be derived to ourselves, but the injury to be done the enemy. The
                    conquest of 
                        Canada
                     is in your power."63
            
            Members of the war party in the Twelfth Congress echoed these words of Clay. Two representatives of
                    North 
                  
                     60
                            Annals of Congress, 12th Cong., 1st Sess., 481.
                  
                     61
                            Ibid., 11th Cong., 2d Sess., 579–582.
                  
                     62 See Pratt, Expansionists of 1812, 40.
                  
                     63
                            Annals of Congress, 11th Cong., 2d Sess., 580.
               
                     Carolina—
                        Israel
                     Pickens and William R. King—summarized the essential reasoning behind the
                    demand for 
                        Canada
                    . King on December 13, 1811, stated that he was not enamored of conquest but that this
                    war had been forced upon America: "We cannot, under existing circumstances, avoid it. To
                    wound our enemy in the most vulnerable part should only be considered."64 Pickens, less than a month later, answered the opposition that though the contemplated
                    attack on the British Provinces is called a war of offense, "when it is considered as the
                    only mode in our reach, for defending rights universally recognised and avowedly violated, its
                    character is changed."65 Even calm and honest Nathaniel Macon of 
                        Virginia
                    , whose opinion can surely be given as much weight as the impassioned and half-mad 
                        Randolph
                     of the same state, contended that the war which the 
                        United States
                     was about to enter was not a war of conquest—"Its object is to
                    obtain the privilege of carrying the produce of our lands to a market"—but he
                    considered that no war could long continue to be merely one of defense.66 The
                    War Hawks called for attack upon 
                        Canada
                     because it was the only certain way they knew of attacking Britain.
            Peaceful restriction had apparently failed and the West and South resolved to fight the British in
                    the only area in which she appeared to be vulnerable, her North American provinces. Perhaps the most
                    adequate summary by a westerner of why the West wanted to fight was that given by Andrew Jackson on
                    March 12, 1812, when, as commander of the militia of the western district of 
                        Tennessee
                    , he issued a call for volunteers from this area. In this document, if in no other, one
                    would expect to see reflected the ideas and aspirations of the people of the West; a commander
                    calling for volunteers does not use unpopular arguments. Under the heading, "For what are
                    we going to fight?", Jackson wrote these words: "We are going to fight for the
                    reestablishment of our national charector [sic], misunderstood and vilified at
                    home and abroad; for the protection of our maritime citizens, impressed on board British ships of
                    war and compelled to fight the battles of our enemies against ourselves; to vindicate our right to a
                    free trade, and open a market for 
                  
                     64
                            Ibid., 12th Cong., 1st Sess., 519.
                  
                     65
                            Ibid., 646, Jan. 4, 1812.
                  
                     66
                            Ibid., 663, Jan. 4, 1812.
               
                     the productions of our soil, now perishing on our hands because
                    the mistress of the ocean has forbid us to carry them to any foreign nation; in
                    fine, to seek some indemnity for past injuries, some security against future aggressions, by the
                    conquest of all the British dominions upon the continent of north america."67
            
            The coming of war in 1812 was not a sudden event; it was the culmination of a long series of injuries
                    and insults, of checks to American commerce, and of the infringement of American rights. The 
                        United States
                    , under the leadership of 
                        Jefferson
                     and 
                        Madison
                    , repeatedly attempted to defend her rights by peaceful economic coercion. Yet, almost
                    inevitably, a breaking point was reached. The time came when, with national honor at its lowest ebb,
                    and large sections of agricultural America suffering depression, any war seemed preferable to a
                    dishonorable and unprofitable peace. The young War Hawks who urged war in 1811 and 1812 had grown up
                    in this atmosphere of the oppression of American rights, and with apparently nothing to gain by
                    peace, urged America to fight for the right to exist as a fully independent nation. Considering the
                    period through which they had grown to manhood, it is not surprising that they demanded war to
                    preserve American commerce, neutral rights, and honor, and that, in order to revenge themselves upon
                    their enemy, they proposed the invasion of 
                        Canada
                    . The suspected British instigation of the Indians was an added irritant, but if Great
                    Britain had pursued a conciliatory maritime policy towards the 
                        United States
                    , it seems extremely unlikely that there would have been war between the two countries.
                    The fundamental cause of the War of 1812 was the British maritime policy which hurt both the
                    national pride and the commerce of the 
                        United States
                    .
            
               
                  67 Bassett, Correspondence of Andrew Jackson, 1,
                        221–222.
            
         
         
         
            The Twain-Cable Readings in Indiana
            Paul Fatout*
            
            On their four months' lecture tour in 1884-1885, Mark Twain and George Washington Cable gave
                    performances in 
                  Indianapolis, South Bend
               , 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , and 
                        Lafayette
                    . Their manager, Major James B. Pond, advertised them as "A combination of
                    genius and versatility that appeals freshly to the intelligent public."1 But the 
                  
                            New York
                         Times, reporting their Manhattan appearance, slyly remarked: "The
                    management … neglected to say which of the gentlemen had the genius and which the
                    versatility. Some… may have felt… that Mr. Cable represented both these
                    elements, while Mr. Clemens was simply man, after the fashion of that famous hunting animal one-half
                    of which was pure Irish setter and the other half `just plain dog.'"2
            
            The odd combination of the dapper, pious southerner and the careless, heretical westerner often
                    puzzled audiences. Mark Twain was indubitably amusing. Once characterized as having "the
                    walk of a ready made cripple" and "the facial expression of a man who is about to
                    preach his own funeral sermon,"3 he stimulated laughter without saying
                    a word. Comic, also, was his drawling voice, described by an imaginative listener as reminiscent of
                    "a little buzz-saw slowly grinding inside a corpse."4 But when
                    he violated the conventional rules of elocution, some hearers doubted his professional competence.
                    And when he flouted the canons of elevated discourse by descending to "such earthy
                    creatures as Huckleberry Finn,"5 and telling the story of King
                    Sollermun, others uneasily wondered whether such a performance was quite 
                  
                     * Paul Fatout is a member of the department of English at Purdue
                            University, 
                                Lafayette
                            , Indiana. This article, including the previously unpublished material written
                            by Mark Twain which is used here with the permission of the Trustees of the Mark Twain
                            Estate, is copyrighted, 1957, by the Mark Twain Co., Inc.
                  
                     1
                            
                        
                                    New York
                                 Times, November 16–18, 1884; 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Journal, January 7–8, 1885; 
                        
                                    South Bend
                                 Daily Tribune, January 29-February 4, 1885; 
                        
                                    Fort Wayne
                                 Daily News, February 5, 1885; 
                        
                                    Lafayette
                                 Daily Journal, February 5–6, 1885.
                  
                     2 November 19, 1884.
                  
                     3
                            
                        Troy, New
                                    York
                     , Times, February 2, 1872.
                  
                     4
                            
                        
                                    Cleveland
                                 Leader, n. d. Reprinted in 
                        Springfield, Illinois
                     , State Journal, December 16, 1884.
                  
                     5
                            
                        
                                    New York
                                 Times, November 19, 1884.
               
                     genteel. The 
                  
                            New York
                         Herald admitted the humor, yet the best the paper could say was that
                    "there was nothing actually immoral in his exhibition," and it primly approved the
                    "mitigating circumstance" of his being "made professionally one with Mr.
                    George W. Cable."6 Stiff-necked eastern critics were loath to accept
                    this wild man from 
                        Missouri
                    , preferring the polite examples of "word painting" Cable read from
                    his novel, Dr. Sevier, particularly the melodramatic story of "Mary's Night
                    Ride," which rarely failed to win the plaudits of audience and press. Austere listeners in 
                        Boston
                    , even in cosmopolitan 
                        New York
                    , appeared to believe that Cable gave tone to a program that otherwise might have been
                    faintly disreputable.7
            
            It is interesting to note, therefore, that Hoosier audiences did not conform to eastern opinion, and
                    that Hoosier reporters impartially meted out praise and dispraise. Furthermore, in Indiana, close to
                    Mark Twain's home grounds, there was little doubt about his role as the star of the show.
                    After more than thirty appearances in nine states and 
                        Canada
                    , the touring lecturers came up from 
                        Louisville
                     for a performance in 
                        Plymouth
                     Church, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , on January 7, 1885. According to press notices, the evening was a triumph for both.
            They had a full house, said the 
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         Journal, "one of the finest audiences that could be
                    gathered," and it relished "The most unique and thoroughly enjoyable entertainment
                    ever given in 
                        Indianapolis
                    … . From first to last the immense assembly was in hearty sympathy with the
                    readers, and, for a time, it looked as if the intention was to hold them all night." The
                    reviewer commended Cable's "nicety of expression," and praised
                    "Mary Richling's night ride" as "a fine rendering of a fine bit
                    of descriptive writing, a real picture painted by an artist." Mark Twain was
                    "simply indescribable. The drollery of his appearance and manner invests the commonplace
                    and wearisome with a freshness and comicality that is irresistible. The story of 
                  
                     6 November 19, 1884.
                  
                     7 Illustrative of 
                                New England
                             prejudice, the public library committee of 
                                Concord
                            , 
                                Massachusetts
                            , barred Huckleberry Finn from its shelves on the grounds that
                            the book was "trashy and vicious." The 
                        
                                    Springfield
                                 Republican commended this action, and remarked: "The
                            advertising samples of this book, which have disfigured the Century magazine …
                            tell the reader how offensive the whole thing must be … . their moral tone is
                            low, and their perusal cannot be anything less than harmful." Reprinted in 
                        
                                    New York
                                 Times, March 19, 1885.
               
                     King Sollermun… . In cold type…
                    seems… trivial to the last degree; but as Mr. Clemens gave it… it set the
                    audience in a perfect storm of boisterous merriment."8
            
            The crowd, said the 
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         News, "generous in applause and shaking with laughter,"
                    enjoyed "one of the pleasantest evenings of the season."9 The
                        
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         Sentinel was equally complimentary, referring to Mark Twain as the
                    "greatest of humorists," to Cable as "the renowned novelist,"
                    and commenting upon the "large audience… in a high state of hilarity
                    throughout." Cable, "an active little man, with a pleasant and intelligent face,
                    attired in full evening dress suit," read engagingly about Narcisse, John and Mary
                    Richling, then "retires midst great applause." Whereupon "the awkward and
                    lanky Mark Twain ambles to the front" —apparently not attired in dress suit.
                    "After gazing steadily at the floor for a few seconds the great humorist begins his
                    selections, `Advance Sheets from the Adventures of Huckleberry Finn.'"10 The pair were so furiously encored that when Mark Twain concluded the program
                    with his ghost story of the golden arm, "which ended with a thump, starting everyone out of
                    their seats,"11 the crowd reluctantly dispersed at a late hour for the
                    eighties, past ten o'clock.
            The lecturers took off on a nine-hour trip to 
                  Springfield, Illinois
               , then
                    went on to fill over twenty other engagements in six midwestern states before returning to Indiana.
                    They had the stamina of the old-fashioned trouper who endured long journeys on slow and
                    uncomfortable trains at unseemly hours, poor accommodations in run-down hotels, indifferent food,
                    and wearisome "entertainment" devised by officious reception committees.
            Besides putting up with the rigors of travel, the two had to put up with each other. Cable's
                    rigid orthodoxy made him keep the Sabbath holy with a fanaticism that caused friction. When he was
                    ready to forego a 
                        Chicago
                     engagement rather than leave 
                        Davenport
                    , 
                        Iowa
                    , on Sunday, his exasperated companion snapped: "I am not going to be made a
                    plaything of in order to humor the corpse of a superstition of the Middle 
                  
                     8 January 8, 1885.
                  
                     9 January 8, 1885.
                  
                     10 January 8, 1885.
                  
                     11
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Journal, January 8, 1885.
               
                     Ages."12 As a compound of
                    idiosyncrasies, Mark Twain was not a placid associate. Accurately he described himself as
                    "a man of moods & frets & uncertainties of disposition."13 Although he enjoyed Cable's talkative comradeship on long rides, and
                    boasted of good health that throve on eight to twelve hours of railroading a day, he accepted
                    neither the vagaries of his companion nor the hardships of travel philosophically.14 To his wife, Livy, he raged about miserable trains, poor connections, and inconsiderate
                    hotel keepers. He also raged about Cable's piety ("Since I have been with this
                    paltry child, I have imbibed a venomous & unreasoning detestation of the very name of the Sabbath."15), about his penury ("I
                    don't believe he `lays over,' Sundays, gratis: I believe he keeps an account
                    against God."16), and about his capitalizing on the popularity of
                    "that infernal Night Ride of Mary's"17 by extending
                    its recital from six minutes to fifteen.
            Continually he bombarded his business associate, Charles L. Webster, with messages about various
                    enterprises: the publishing company, the historical game, the perpetual calendar, the Paige
                    typesetter, the patent bed clamp. A combination of writer, lecturer, and entrepreneur, Mark Twain
                    "must have been," his grand-nephew says, "a distracting man to work with,
                    as he went in eight different directions at once," yet "he had a lovable and
                    unforgettable personality."18
            
            On February 4 the two readers came down from 
                        Detroit
                     for a performance that night in Good's Opera House at 
                        South Bend
                    . They attracted, said the 
                  
                            South Bend
                         Daily Tribune, "a large and enthusiastic audience … and a
                    better pleased people never sat through a two hours' entertainment … in the
                    uncomfortable seats of the old hall." Cable, "a man of 
                  
                     12 To Olivia Langdon Clemens, February 5, 1885. Unpublished letter,
                            The Mark Twain Papers, University of 
                                California
                             Library, Berkeley.
                  
                     13 To George W. Cable, ca. 1895. Lucy Leffingwell
                            Cable Bikle, George W. Cable: His Life and Letters (
                                New York
                            , 1928), 197n.
                  
                     14 Apropos of physical well-being, he wrote to Livy with justifiable
                            pride on December 28, 1884, about his dinner on the dining car: steak with mushrooms, sweet
                            and white potatoes, fish, soup, a whole pie, two dishes of ice cream, an orange, and several
                            cups of coffee. After all that, he said, he was still hungry. Unpublished letter, The Mark
                            Twain Papers, University of 
                                California
                             Library, Berkeley.
                  
                     15 Dixon Wecter (ed.), The Love Letters of Mark
                            Twain (
                                New York
                            , 1949), 235.
                  
                     16
                            Ibid., 237.
                  
                     17
                            Ibid., 236.
                  
                     18 Samuel Charles Webster (ed.), Mark Twain, Business
                            Man (New York, 1946), ix.
               
                     small stature and quite slender, in fact ordinary looking in
                    every respect," had "a voice of the high tenor pitch, but clear, ringing and
                    rather pleasing." After introducing himself, he "made … sarcastic
                    remarks about the late comers … begging those … in their seats to go [sic] at least one eye on him, while superintending the seating of …
                    tardy ones with the other, and having placed his hearers in good humor … preceded [sic]
                    to recite … from … Dr. Sevier, personating three characters in very acceptable
                    style… . Mr. Cable … displayed a … fine musical taste …
                    by singing two old Creole songs… . `Mary's Ride' … his best
                    effort … was given in a decidedly dramatic style that called forth the most enthusiastic
                        applause."19
            
            The 
                  
                            South Bend
                         Daily Times saw Cable as "a little man with a long moustache, full
                    beard and intellectual look," and found his reading "pleasing and
                    effective," although his "first two numbers … possessed a sameness that
                    made them a little monotonous."20 The 
                        South Bend
                     Evening Register came close to the elevated 
                        Boston
                     view by praising "the refined wit and tender pathos of `Dr.
                    Sevier.'" The paper approved of the Creole songs, "a strange mixture of
                    Congo and French set to wild melodies," and it paid customary homage to
                    "Mary's Night Ride," which "fairly electrified the
                        audience."21
            
            Perhaps it is not surprising that the forthright Mark Twain expressed irritation over this romantic
                    tale of the brave southern woman and infant riding through the Confederate lines in the night. As
                    its narration grew steadily longer, he grumbled that "there has been a thundering sight too
                        much"22 of Cable on the program. To his notebook he confided:
                    "Cable costs me $550 to $600 a week—that is,
                    $450 a week & expenses. He is not worth the half of it."23 Twelve years later he was still sufficiently annoyed to enter another note:
                    "George W. Cable always stole 2/3 of the platform-time when we were out
                    together—& with his platform-talent he was able to fatigue a corpse."24 That 
                  
                     19 February 5, 1885.
                  
                     20 February 5, 1885.
                  
                     21 February 5, 1885.
                  
                     22 Wecter, The Love Letters of Mark Twain, 231.
                  
                     23 Notebook No. 18, October 24, 1884-April 4, 1885. Unpublished note,
                            The Mark Twain Papers, University of 
                                California
                             Library, Berkeley.
                  
                     24 Notebook No. 32 (II), June 2-July 24, 1897. Unpublished note, The
                            Mark Twain Papers, University of 
                                California
                             Library, Berkeley.
               
                     estimate was probably an exaggeration, but it was
                    understandable, for Mark Twain was something of a prima donna. He was so disdainful of the
                    adventures of Mary Richling that one line from the story—"Cover the child! cover
                    the che-ild!"25—became in the Clemens household a stock
                    comment for humorous contretemps and minor crises.
            The 
                        South Bend
                     papers treated Cable politely, but Mark Twain was the lion of the occasion, even though
                    the Times critic said that "the first few sentences … uttered
                    in his drawling devil-may-care way, caused an inward fear to creep through the minds of many
                    … that it was their fate to be bored."26 That fear soon
                    vanished. The Tribune said that Twain won approval the moment he "sauntered upon the stage
                    in his easy careless manner, with a grave look upon his countenance." Merely
                    "glancing sidewise at the audience" produced "a general outburst of
                    laughter," and passages from Huckleberry Finn "kept his
                    listeners in a roar … all through." The reviewer described this laugh-provoking
                    man: "His appearance … is directly the opposite of Cable's. Tall,
                    somewhat angular, with a shock of grizzly hair covering a large head, a smoothly shaven face, with
                    the exception of a gray and stubby mustache under a large Roman nose, and over a wide ranging mouth,
                    with a voice low and gutteral [sic] … a … solemn look
                    … upon his features, he is the embodiment of all that is droll… . The witty
                    things in his writings … sound … more comical when repeated by the author in
                    his inimitable style."27
            
            The captivating power of the famous drawl, which charmed his contemporaries, is unhappily lost to us.
                    That is a misfortune, for abundant evidence testifies that voice and manner accounted for much of
                    his appeal. The most offhand remark was likely to seem amusing. When the gaslights almost went out
                    during one of his 
                        South Bend
                     numbers, he delighted everybody by "looking gravely from one side to the
                    other" and asking "in his most solemn tones, `Is—is this a
                        habit?'"28 Once he had won over his audience he could make
                    capital even of his lapses. At 
                        South Bend
                    , he confessed 
                  
                     25 Wecter, The Love Letters of Mark Twain, 236.
                  
                     26 February 5, 1885.
                  
                     27 February 5, 1885.
                  
                     28
                            
                        
                                    South Bend
                                 Evening Register, February 5, 1885. The question is reminiscent of the
                            query Mark Twain and his friends relied upon to shatter the morale of European guides in The Innocents Abroad: "Is—is he dead?"
               
                     to Livy, "I got lost in the last third of `A Trying
                    Situation'—couldn't find my place again, & so concluded with a
                    speech explaining the dilemma, & the speech was a rattling, not to say an electrical,
                        success."29
            
            The 
                        Fort Wayne
                     readings at the Academy on February 5 drew another crowded and stylish house. The 
                  
                            Fort Wayne
                         Daily News was mildly critical of Cable, who "was very interesting
                    for a time, but … grew tiresome toward the close of the entertainment" possibly
                    because of "the patience or lack of it of the audience." This dryly humorous
                    reviewer remarked that "there was not enough variety—too much domesticity to
                    hold the interest … for any … length of time."30
                    The Daily Gazette also found him rather tedious. "He is a marvelous writer, but is not cut
                    out for dialect recitations, even though they be from his own works."31
            
            Mark Twain, said the Daily Sentinel, "is a riddle. He never laughs, but his graveyard voice
                    is handled in artistic style, and no person knows how to mingle the sublime and ridiculous better
                    than he does."32 The News said: "He looked as though he
                    hadn't the least idea what he was there for, and would give more money than he ever saw to
                    get out of the scrape without serious trouble. When he finally commenced talking in his slow,
                    drawling, half scared manner, another earthquake upheaved his listeners… . He can talk
                    much funnier than he can write, which is the best we can say for him. His stories are sometimes long
                    drawn, but never tiresome."33 The 
                        Fort Wayne
                     press was more lukewarm than enthusiastic, but Mark Twain had no doubts about the
                    evening. To Livy he wrote: "We had a most delightful time with the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     audience last night. I enjoyed every moment of my time on the stage."34
            
            Leaving 
                        Fort Wayne
                     at 5:45 A.M. on February 6, the lecturers' train lost two hours en route to 
                        Lafayette
                    , finally arriving there after a six-hour run. That was merely one of their routine
                    trips, of which Mark Twain later observed: 
                  
                     29 To Olivia Langdon Clemens, February 7, 1885. Unpublished letter,
                            The Mark Twain Papers, University of 
                                California
                             Library, Berkeley.
                  
                     30 February 6, 1885.
                  
                     31 February 6, 1885.
                  
                     32 February 6, 1885.
                  
                     33 February 6, 1885.
                  
                     34 To Olivia Langdon Clemens, February 6, 1885. Unpublished letter,
                            The Mark Twain Papers, University of 
                                California
                             Library, Berkeley.
               
                     "my, but they were sockdolagers for
                        length!"35 Accumulated fatigue may have been partly responsible for
                    Cable's staging a scene at 
                        Lafayette
                     in the dining room of the Lahr House. Finding children seated at his table, he stalked
                    out in a huff, and insisted that dinner be sent to his room. Major Pond was angered and embarrassed
                    by this top-lofty behavior, and Mark Twain gleefully reported it as another example of
                    Cable's quirks of character.36
            
            Appearing on the night of the sixth at the Grand Opera House, the readers worked against strong
                    competition in Pythian Hall from Signer Giovani and his Novelty Company: a flock of trained birds;
                    Dr. Casanova, "the great and only Vivisectionist"; a Chinese magician; Master
                    Frank Jones, "the greatest of all Juvenile Artists"; Mile. Lizzie Giovani; and
                    "Trained Girls."37 Nevertheless, the combination of genius and
                    versatility faced a house "completely filled," according to the 
                  
                            Lafayette
                         Daily Courier, "and with our best people."38 As if to reprove the snobbish East, midwestern reporters often emphasized the
                    respectability of the audience, its intelligence, culture, and refinement. The 
                  
                            Lafayette
                         Daily Journal noted the event perfunctorily, but graciously observed that
                    "the two artists are … geniuses and … masters of the task which they
                    have undertaken—to make their audience laugh until they are glad when the performance is
                    over so that they can rest their aching sides."39
            
            The Courier was explicit and critical. Severely it condemned "the dreary
                    barrenness of Mr. Cable's efforts," scoffed at his overpraised "word
                    painting," complained that his character drawing was "mere skeleton work
                    … neither complete nor perfect in its parts," and pronounced him
                    "insipid." Berating the poor man, this stern critic said:
            "He gets very tiresome after the first five minutes, but, like … discordant notes
                    in the most perfect melody … he makes Twain appear like a god by contrast.
            "Just where to place Mr. Cable in the literary menu, we are at a loss to say, unless he be
                    the olives—but olives with the cork left out of the bottle for a very long time,
                    indeed."
            
               
                  35 Bikle, George W. Cable: His Life and Work, 197.
               
                  36 To Olivia Langdon Clemens, February 6, 1885. Unpublished letter, The
                        Mark Twain Papers, University of 
                            California
                         Library, Berkeley.
               
                  37 Advertisement, 
                     
                                Lafayette
                             Daily Journal, February 6, 1885.
               
                  38 February 7, 1885.
               
                  39 February 7, 1885.
            
            
            The one good part of his performance was "Mary's Night Ride," which the
                    reviewer admitted to have been "graphically portrayed and thrillingly rendered …
                    the only one of his selections from Dr. Sevier, that … could pass muster."40
            
            On the other hand, said the Courier, trying to praise Mark Twain was "like gilding refined
                    gold… . At times a look of … hopeless idiocy sits down on his face to meditate
                    … then the sly roguery of a half suppressed smile wreathes his face like …
                    faint wavelets occasioned by a bug dropping on the placid bosom of a pond—again
                    … volcanic flashes of uproarious mirth dart from his eyes, consuming the last remnant of
                    the pall-like gloom left in the house by Cable."41
            
            If Cable ever saw that harsh review, he did not publicize his feeling about it. As a modest man who
                    had less self-confidence than his overpowering companion, and who was willing to play second fiddle
                    in this company of two, he did not quarrel with critics. Mark Twain was different. If he believed
                    that he had done poorly, he did not object to censure, but unfair criticism made him bristle, and he
                    had been known to write a warm rejoinder. Yet he could not complain of the effusive favor showered
                    upon him in Indiana. At one point in the tour, however, he lamented his success as a funny man by
                    bursting out: "Oh, Cable, I am demeaning myself. I am allowing myself to be a mere buffoon.
                    It's ghastly. I can't endure it any longer."42
                    Nevertheless, he consciously worked upon the humorous effects of manner and speech with studied art,
                    and he was chagrined if he could not rouse a glum audience to laughter. Of his performance in
                            
                  Paris, Kentucky
               , for instance, he remarked that he enjoyed lecturing to
                    southern people because "they laugh themselves all to pieces… . It is a great
                    delight to talk to such folks."43 Mark Twain was a man of perplexing paradoxes.
            On February 7 the pair reappeared in 
                        Indianapolis
                     for matinee and evening readings, again at 
                        Plymouth
                     Church. Varying the program, Cable read from The Grandissimes,
                    including the episode of Ravel Innerarity and his "pigshoo" of 
                  
                     40 February 7, 1885.
                  
                     41 Ibid.
                  
                     42 Wecter, The Love Letters of Mark Twain,
                            231–232. Cable recalled this outburst, but he does not say where it occurred.
                  
                     43
                            bid., 224.
               
                     "Louisihanna Rif-fusing to Hanter the
                        Union,"44 but, to the great disgust of Mark Twain, he clung to his
                    standby, "Mary's Night Ride." The Twain readings were all new: the story
                    of Tom and Huck aiding Jim to escape, Baker's bluejay yarn, the tale of Tom Quartz, the
                    Nevada duel, the burlesque encounter with an interviewer, and others.
            A return engagement after only a month lessened the freshness and originality apparent in January.
                    The audience was not so large this time, and only the Journal printed a review.
                    The evening was "most enjoyable," it said, "and if … less full
                    of zest than the previous one, it was because the novelty had somewhat worn away … not
                    that the performance was below standard. The general verdict was expressed by a fair auditor in the
                    gallery, who, while Mr. Twain was telling of his duel, gave a long-protracted half-musical shriek,
                    dying away in a hysteria and a rupture of whalebone."45
            
            If less numerous than the January turnout, this one was evidently as responsive. Some citizens might
                    have been indignant, however, had they known that two days later Mark Twain casually referred to the
                    Hoosier capital as "a little place like 
                        Indianapolis
                    ."46 Still, he was pleased with his reading there.
                    "I have learned my trade at last," he wrote to Livy. "I know how to read
                    my stuff. At last I can stand on a platform & do the thing right. I did make 'em
                    shout last night."47 As a speaker he was a craftsman, continually
                    learning his "trade" and setting up for himself exacting criteria.
            After a Sunday's rest at the Dennison House, the lecturers departed on Monday for
                            
                  Columbus, Ohio
               , riding all day and "stopping every 30
                    yards,"48 Mark Twain said. Then they went on to their final engagements in eastern cities,
                    ending the long tour in 
                        Washington
                     on the last day of the month. In Indiana the vexing question of which had the genius,
                    which the versatility, needed no asking. The majority verdict on both counts was in favor of Mark
                    Twain.
            
               
                  44 As recorded by Mark Twain in Life on the 
                                Mississippi
                            
                   (
                            New York
                        , 1903), 351.
               
                  45 February 8, 1885.
               
                  46 Wecter, The Love Letters of Mark Twain, 236.
               
                  47 To Olivia Langdon Clemens, February 8, 1885. Unpublished letter, The
                        Mark Twain Papers, University of 
                            California
                         Library, Berkeley.
               
                  48 Wecter, The Love Letters of Mark Twain, 235.
            
         
         
         
            Documents
            Cyrus Nutt Becomes A Hoosier
            Edited by Eleanore A. Cammack*
            
            Comparatively few pioneers of the Middle West left significant accounts of the stirring events
                    through which they lived. So engrossed were they in establishing the material and cultural
                    foundations of the region that they had little time for recording their experiences and
                    observations.
            Cyrus Nutt relates that he was born in a log cabin on a farm near 
                        Southington
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , in 1814.1 When only four he attended the district school and at
                    fifteen he taught such a school. Determined to secure an education, he spent two terms at a
                    Presbyterian academy at nearby West Farmington.
            Though his autobiography lacks clues regarding any serious vices or misdeeds, Cyrus Nutt states that
                    he was a wild and rude boy preoccupied with follies. As a youth he considered the possibility of
                    becoming a minister, but he had a difficult inner struggle before his conversion at a Methodist camp
                    meeting. He was not ordained a minister until 1840, but his conversion preceded his college career.
            Apparently in 1833 he entered Allegheny College, at 
                        Meadville
                    , 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , an institution acquired by the Methodists from the Presbyterians. Here he graduated in
                    1836 and immediately became a teacher in the Preparatory Department. The following year he accepted
                    an appointment in the Preparatory Department of Indiana Asbury University which the Methodists were
                    opening at 
                        Greencastle
                    .2
            
            
               
                  * Miss Cammack is archivist of the Archives of DePauw University and
                        Indiana Methodism. The Archives, established on the DePauw campus in 1951, is directed by Dr.
                        Worth M. Tippy.
               
                  1 For a sketch of the life of Cyrus Nutt see Rev. F. C. Holliday, Indiana Methodism (
                            Cincinnati
                        , 1873), 280–285.
               
                  2 For the founding and development of Indiana Asbury University during the
                        period described by Nutt see the early chapters of William Warren Sweet, Indiana
                            Asbury-DePauw University, 1837–1937 (
                            New York
                        , 1937).
            
            
            He taught at Asbury from 1837 until 1843, returning to the faculty again in 1846 after holding
                    pastorates at 
                        Bloomington
                     and 
                        Salem
                    . In 1849 he once more left Asbury to become president of the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     Female College, following which he served as president of Whitewater College at 
                        Centerville
                    , 1850-1855. These colleges were likewise sponsored by the Methodists. From 1855 until
                    1857 he was presiding elder of the 
                        Richmond
                     district. In 1857 he again rejoined the Asbury faculty and remained until 1860, serving
                    as acting president for the last two years. In 1860 Thomas Bowman was selected the new president of
                    Asbury and Cyrus Nutt became president of Indiana University where he served until his resignation
                    in 1875. When he died that same year after a brief illness, Indiana lost a devoted teacher, an
                    experienced college and university administrator, a servant of Methodism, and a Christian gentleman.
            The autobiography was begun in 1853 when Nutt was president at Whitewater College and was finished in
                    1856 when he was presiding elder of the 
                        Richmond
                     district. It tells much about his youth, his education, and his religious experience.
                    Most of it, however, relates the beginnings at Asbury with emphasis on its financial problems and
                    brief, exciting glimpses of student life and faculty relations. His account closes with an
                    evaluation of Bishop Matthew Simpson which mingles commendation with harsh criticism.3 The autobiography was presented to the Archives of DePauw University and Indiana
                    Methodism by a granddaughter of Cyrus Nutt, Mrs. Margaretta Nutt Helm of 
                  Chicago, Illinois
               .
            An attempt has been made to reproduce the complete autobiography as accurately as possible. The only
                    additions which have been made are indicated in brackets. A limited number of explanatory footnotes
                    have been supplied in addition to the two footnotes which Nutt himself included in his manuscript.
                    For the sake of accuracy the unstandardized spellings, common in documents of Nutt's day,
                    have been reproduced. Although the meaning is usually clear, the informal style in which Nutt wrote
                    resulted in numerous omissions of words and letters and occasional repetitions. These have been left
                    untouched.
            
               
                  3 A recent and different evaluation of Bishop Simpson is that by Robert D.
                        Clark, The Life of Matthew Simpson (
                            New York
                        , 1956).
            
            
            
                    CYRUS NUTT Diary. Commenced 1853. in the 40 year of his aage. Nov. 1st. 1853 Nov.
                        6th 1853
                    I was born in Southington Trumbull Co. 
                            Ohio
                        , on the 4th of Sept. 1814. My Father James Nutt was a native of Blanford Mass. His
                        father having died while he was young, has Mother married again, and at an early period he was
                        thrown upon his own resources, without a permanent home. He had several Brothers and sisters;
                        only two of his brothers was it ever my privilege to see. All of his family except himself and
                        his youngest brother Married and settled in the East but afterwords moved to the west. Tradition
                        says that the ancestors, "perhaps my great Grand father, with thee brothers came from 
                            Scotland
                         to America, and that the original name was M'Nutt. These brothers settled
                        in dif- parts of the Colonies, one in 
                            New England
                        , one in 
                            New Jersy
                         another in 
                            Virginia
                        , another in 
                            South Carolina
                        .
                    The 
                            New England
                         branch, finally dropped the prefix, M' hence the name Nutt. My father came
                        to the West in the year 1803, or 4, at about the age of twenty, in company with his Uncle, and
                        Settled in 
                            Aurora
                        , Portage Co. 
                            Ohio
                        . There he purchased a small farm in the virgin forrest, and went to work to make
                        him a farm. There labored to that degree that he broke down, and injured permanently a
                        constitution remarkably good.
                    He soon after married a in Southing Township Trumbull Co. 
                            Ohio
                        , a young lady by the name of Mary Viets. This marriage took place about the A.D.
                        1806. At the solicitation of his father-in-law, He removed to southington and settled on a piece
                        of land adjoining the farm of his father in-law. Here he lived until the close of his life. He
                        died at the age of fifty four.
                    I was the second of the living sons, and the fourth child of my parents. I was born in a log
                        cabin, in that early day there were scarcely any other kind of dwelings in the country. This
                        one, of which are my earliest recollections of home, was of a peculiar construction. Most of the
                        Cabins of that period were made of round logs this, of my father, was made of very large and
                        long rails. The oak timber being excelent and easily split, Logs some twenty feet long, were  split into some five or six pieces, and these pieces were
                        laid up with the corners notched down, and the spaces between, were filled chinking and mud. The
                        roof and doors, were made of clapboards, or as they were called by the settlers shingles, The
                        same material constituted the ceiling. The joists were round poles, and the clapboards were laid
                        upon them. The floor was made of puncheons, that is slabs from three to four inches thick and
                        smooth on the uper side and then fitted down upon the sleepers. This formed a very substantial
                        floor. The vast forrests of that part of the Western Reserve, were dotted here and there with
                        log cabins, surrounded by little opens which enlarged from year to year as the owners were
                        enabled to clear off the timber, which was remarkably heavy. It required a life-time nearly for
                        one man to make a farm. On now passing through the well settled and carefully cultivate countys,
                        could scarsely imagine, how different was it is appearance at this early period. This region was
                        occupied mostly by settlers from the 
                            New England
                         States, and they brought with then their love of education and their enterprize.
                        Consequently soon, the log school house went up, and the teacher employed, and the children were
                        sent to school. According the custom of the neighborhood I was sent to school, when but four
                        years of age. I have a distinct recolection of this my first school, as well as several events,
                        which transpired previous to this. My father taught me my letters when I was only three years of
                        age. I reccollect as distinctly as if had occurred but yesterday, being out with my father, and
                        elder Brother, as he was chopping down a tree, and as the tree was large it required sometime,
                        and my Brother, with a hatchet of which he was fond and do not know but proud, with myself were
                        wandering through the bushes hacking the saplins, until the tree was near falling, when my
                        father called us to him. As we were coming the tree cracked and began to fall in the opposite
                        direction from what was intended. My brother ran forward to my father, but I got entangled in
                        the brush and falling limbs and sat down, The tree, which was two feet and a half in diameter,
                        fell close by my side, and a large limb just before me, and brush all around, so that it
                        required some little effort on the part of my father to extricate me which with the greatest
                        alarm, and I remember his expression of joy when he found I was unharmed. It was one of those
                             wonderful escapes which run little less than miraculous.
                        There are a number of other incidents which occurred in my third year, one of which was the
                        death of my next younger brother. They carried him in their arms in the evening while he
                        appeared in the greatest distress until I went to sleep and in the morning they told me that he
                        was dead. The little coffin was brought, and the pale beautiful babe was put in it, wrapped in
                        the white shroud. A number of the neighbors came, and they carried to a rising ground, and
                        burried him there The appearace of the fresh grave is still fresh in my recollection. I
                        frequently dreamed that my little brother was alive again, and came and played with me. How
                        bright and active he seemed!
                    From the humble cottage I went to meeting and to school. The first school House which I saw was
                        of logs hewed on the inside outside, about twenty feet square, here also the meetings were held.
                        On Sunday at eleven prayer meetings were held, and afterward the class met. Sometimes there was
                        preaching by some local preacher who came from a distance, and held a two-days meeting. Circuit
                        preaching was held generally on a week day, once in four weeks. I remember no incidents worthy
                        of notice which transpired during my subsequent childhood and youth, except what is common those
                        reared in similar obscurity. They said that I was quick to learn, and had a good memory, and was
                        rather abitious to be always at the head of my classes. My first teacher was a young lady, of
                        very even temper rather good natured. She kept constantly by her, however a beech switch of
                        considerable length and magnitude though I believe she used it but one or twice during the
                        quarter. She use to be quite fond of siesta after dinner, and she would recline with the bible
                        for her pillow upon a bench telling some of the larger girls to wake her up when the found the
                        hands of a watch which was suspended in the roon, were at certain points These instructions were
                        not always most scrupulously obeyed, for I remember that we had more than one long
                        "noon-spell," and the mistress would wake up, and seem in great hurry for a
                        few minutes, and loud reproofs were administered to the delinquents, who were perfectly willing
                        that she should have her nap out.
                    When I was five years of age, we moved into a new house on another part of the farm. It was of
                        hewed logs  twentfour feet square, and well put up, and with
                        a plank floor matched down and the same kind of floor over head. Abut a good a house as could be
                        found in the neighborhood at that time. The plank were put down without planing but they soon
                        were worn smooth Such as carpets were not dreamed of at that time, and indeed were unknown for
                        many years afterward. In this house we three rooms, a kitchen sitting-room and parlor alogether,
                        a bedroom & a pantry, on the first floor, and up stairs all in one. He we lived until I
                        left home to go to College; and my father died, nearly nineteen years. Our family circle was
                        unbroken, consist of five Children, a sister Susan and a brother, Chauncey older than myself,
                        and Isaac and Laura younger. How are we scattered now! Most of us in the spirit land.
                    I was a wild, rude boy fond of fun. Though I recollect once under a sermon from a young man who
                        had been sent on the circuit I think his name was summerville, I was deeply convicted for sin
                        and the tears flowed freely and promised God, that I would be a better boy, but the conviction
                        soon wore off and I becames as careless as ever.
                    As I advanced in years, I gathered the elements of an English Education, by attending part of
                        during the winters a common school which was generally kept during the three winter months. I
                        thus learned to read spell write, and some little smattering of Arithmetic, Geography and
                        Grammar were not then taught in the common schools of that country. I consequence of my devotion
                        to study my father bough me an abridgement of Websters dictionary, an arithmetic, and a
                        Geography and Kirkhams English Grammar then lately published. These sciences I dug out mostly by
                        myself, while resting at noon and night, of the days that were spent in hard labor upon the
                        farm. By devoting these odd spells, in one summer, when thirteen years of age, I
                        "ciphered" through Cruikshonks Arithmetic alone, get help of my father in
                        reference two sums, one in simple subtraction and another in what was then called the
                        "Rule of Three.
                    My father was a very good schollar all the elementary English branches, except Grammar, and
                        taught the District school several winters. He was also the first and only Justice of the Peace
                        for that township for twenty one years, being elected every three years. I used to my books
                        frequently into the field, and while resting I would look over the pages.  Thus I studied Geography, while making rails, and obtained my first
                        insight into the mysteries of English grammar while plowing corn. Books were a greater rarity
                        then than in this Book making age. My Father's library consisted of the Bible Hymn Book
                        and Discipline of the M. E. Church, and the Statutes of the State of 
                            Ohio
                         and an old Almanac or two all told, Our school books not included. To these a few
                        additions were made from time to time. The life of Rev. Free-born Garretson, and an abridgement
                        of Locke's conduct of the human undestanding we purchase when I was nearly grown. When
                        I was fourteen, I labored for some of our neighbors for a week, our own harvest having been
                        finished, for which I received four dollars, the most of which immediately invested in books.
                        Some perhaps may be curious to know in what my first investment in the book line consisted. They
                        were four small volumes, "Thinks I to myself," "Mason's
                        Self-Knowledge," and Pope's translation of Homer's Illiad"
                        in two volumes These I read over several times I was particularly delighted with Homer, which I
                        literally devoured the whole of which I read, in less than two days; though engaged in labor on
                        the farm through the day. I derived great benefit from Mason's self-knowledge, and I
                        suppose no book except the Bible exerted as much influence in the formation of my character for
                        life.
                    At the age of fifteen, I was employed in Teaching a District school, in the town of Bristol, for
                        three months in winter of 1829 and 1830. Had a large school of more than thirty scholars, many
                        of them older and larger than myself. However I got along for the most part very pleasantly and
                        profitably. I taught again in the winter of 1832, in an old and popular neighborhood viz. on the
                        Ridge in 
                            Braceville
                        , The Pupils were farther advanced here, and it required more skill both in Teaching
                        and governing, than my previous school. I finished up my quarter however to the satisfaction of
                        the patrons
                    During the following sumer I imbibed the notion of going to College, and obtaining a thorough
                        education. This would then appear almost a Quixotic undertaking to most persons, in situation,
                        being without means, and having no wealthy relatives on whom I could rely. The facilities for
                        the education of poor young men were then by no means equal to what they now are. Academies were
                        very and Colleges  expensive, and encouragement to individual
                        enterprize much less than now. My father had considerable means, but it consisted in wild land,
                        which at that time was entirely unavailable—as it could not be converted into ready
                        means without a ruinious sacrifice. His farm with the moderate culture which we bestowed barely
                        furnished a suport for the family; and reliance upon paternal resources was out of the question.
                        Reliance upon my own resources was the only hope of success. How this strange fancy arose and
                        was developed, may be proper to sketch for the encouragement of poor young men who may be
                        thirsting for knowledge. During the summer of 1832 a farmer moved into the neighborhood and
                        settled on adjoining farm, whose brother, a Presbyterian clergyman, by his death had left him a
                        large library to which, by the kindness of the owner, I had access. This was a privilege duly
                        appreciate, and well improved. Among other volumes, I read Rollin's Ancient History. In
                        this edition, notes from the authorities, in Latin and Greek, were printed. These I could not
                        read, and was often bothered, as I had been able to understand all hitherto, and, it did not
                        suit so well to be baffled in my search for knowledge; and in my heart I resolved that I would
                        master the difficulties, and read the original This resolution was strengthened by reading an
                        abridgement of "Blair's lectures on Rhetoric, in the beauty and sublimity, of
                        Homer was duly appreciated, with the comment that the original was much more so than the
                        translation.
                    One of the volumes of Rollin was in my hand one day, when my father approached me remarking that,
                        "If I would be a good boy, he would give me a piece of land which he had purchased but
                        a short time before, and very temptingly situated adjoining his own farm. My reply was that,
                        "I would prefer an education to any thing else that he could give me. "Why,
                        what," said he, "would you do with an education if you had one."
                        "I do not know," said I, but I would like to know what is to be
                        known." Said father "Should you spend a great deal of time and money, in
                        acquiring an education, I doubt whether, you would have energy enough to use it or not, and
                        probably it would do little good. However, if you are determined on going to school I can
                        probably give you, your time, and that is about all that I can do for you." My mind was
                        fully made up, I had fixed my eye on the summit of the  hill
                        of science, and charmed with its splendors, no difficulties could deter me from attempting its
                        rugged steeps. Ten acres of new ground were cleared and fensed during that summer and sowed in
                        wheat in the fall, and a full share of the labor requisite for its accomplishment upon me. In
                        consideration of my labor my father paid my bording at an accademy two months that fall. This
                            academy4 was put up by the Presbyterians of West Farmington, of which
                        the Rev. Mr. [Daniel?] Miller had charge, a most excellent and kind man. So about the middle of
                        September my father accompanied me to the seat of science, and introduced me to the Teacher,
                        making this very encouraging remark, He had brough his son, who wished to go to school. He could
                        try him, if he found that the boy could not learn, send him home. The arrangements were soon
                        made and I was duly installed in my quarters, with Adam's Latin Grammar in my hands. I
                        had previously become pretty thoroughly versed in the common, english branches; and now it was
                        with feelings peculiarly joyful that I gazed at the threshold of the ancient languages. Feeling
                        somewhat piqued at the remark of my father to the Teacher, and stimulated by an indomitable
                        resolution to succeed, very few idle moments were spent. Five hours was the average time devote
                        to sleep out of the twenty four. In five days the Grammar was recited through, from beginning to
                        end, and for a few days I was put upon reading the Corderi, conversations in Latin. Virgil was
                        then put into my hands, and the Enead begun. Here progress for the first day or two was slow but
                        in four weeks, I was examined in a class that had been studying Latin a year. In six weeks I
                        could read and translate a hundred lines a day, and passe very well, so that the teacher
                        requested me to instruct his son in the mysteries of Latin Syntax, He was about my age, and had
                        been devoting his attention that science for a year. The first two books of the Enead were
                        mastered in eight weeks.
                    By this time my funds were exhausted, and time for which my boarding bill was paid, was up.
                        During the last week of the quarter, A gentlemen by the name of Fansler, from Bristol arrived
                        inquiring for a School Teacher for Bristol Centre. The Principal refered him to me, and an 
                     
                        4 Farmington Academy (established 1831) changed its name to
                                Farmington Normal School in 1849; in 1854 it became Western Reserve Seminary. History of 
                                        Trumbull
                                     and 
                                        Mahoning Counties
                                    
                         (2 vols., 
                                    Cleveland
                                , 1882), II, 329.
                  
                         engagement was immediately made to teach three months. The
                        place was seven miles east of where I then was. So on the following Saturday, Books and clothing
                        were duly tied up in a handkerchief and I started for the place of destination on foot. In the
                        afternoon, I arrived at the end of my Journey, and was very kindly received by Mr. Fansler, and
                        on following monday morning commenced the school, my salary was ten dollars a month, and
                        boarding, which was obtained by going around, and spend a proportionate time with each of the
                        patrons. Leisure time out of school hours, was devoted to study. The third fourth and fifth
                        Books of the Enead were read during the winter. My salary was sufficient to repair my ward-robe,
                        and pay my Tuition another term at the Academy, and pay my boarding for about one half of that
                        term. Ten days after the close of my school elapsed before the commencement of the spring term,
                        which time was spent in visiting my home and friends. Returning to the seminary at the beginning
                        of the spring term, an arrangement was made, to pay a part of my boarding in work, so that I
                        could spend the whole term in school. During this Quarter I read the sixth seventh &
                        eighth, Books of the Enead, and the Teacher put me upon the study of Greek. Valpy's
                        Greek grammar was rcited through twice in eight days, and in eight weeks from the time I began
                        the Greek, I had read the Gospels in the Greek Testament. At the close of the Term I was again
                        without means. The Session closed about the 20th of June. I went home and went to work on the
                        Farm. The first essay at labor after nine months respite, was in the meadow, with a sythe. I was
                        a very warm day, and the grass heavy, and just before dinner, faint, and weary, it began to turn
                        dark. The fence which was near became my support for a few minutes I recovered, the darkness
                        passed, and by being a little more I continued through the day. The next morning found me
                        remarkably stiff and sore. It soon passed off, and in a few days I could work with any of them I
                        continued to work with my father until the middle of September. The fall works was done,
                        harvests secured, and Wheat sewed, and I began to make arrangements for College. At the close of
                        the Term of the Academy, The Teacher said that I was ready to enter the Freshmen class in
                        College, and that I had better go to an institution of that grade. The nearest College to my
                        fathers residence, was the Western Reserve  College,5 which had been founded a few years previous At its head, as president, was
                        Rev. Mr. [Charles Backus] Storrs, D. D. who shortly after died in consequence as was supposed of
                        a long and powerful sermon, in opposition to slavery, at 
                            Cleaveland
                        
                        
                            Ohio
                        , which required two hours for its delivery.
                    A visit was made by my father to Hudson, the seat of this institution, from which he brought back
                        a Catalogue, which was the first that met my view. It contained the names of the students,
                        Course of study, and rules and regulations of the Institution. I ran over its pages with much
                        eagerness; and dreamed at nights of being seated among the pupils in Chapel of the College, and
                        admitted to recitations among the classes. This was the all absorbing thought of my life; to
                        attend College, and yet possessed of no means of paying my way. There was a manual labor
                        department connected with this institution It consisted of a Mechanics shop where several
                        branches of work were carried on, where a young man who had learned a trade, might by two hours
                        labor a day pay his way. This arrangement would have suited me admirably, had I been a mechanic.
                        But I was acquainted with no labor but that of farming.
                    About this time I attended a Campmeeting at Ellsworth some twenty miles from my fathers, at this
                        Campmeeting, the Rev. Joseph [S.] Barrass [Barris], of the 
                            Pittsburgh
                         Conference was present, and on Monday, as he just been appointed agent for
                        Allegheny College, at Meadville, Penn. he preached upon the subject of Education, protrayed the
                        facilities for poor young men seeking an education at that Institution, and enlarged upon the
                        advantages of a thorough Collegiate training both to the individual and the community. He
                        remarked that the Trustees had just secured a farm of upwards of fifty acres on which poor young
                        men might labor and thence derive the means of support while attending College. As I had no
                        means, and was acquainted with no trade, I concluded that this was the place for me. So after
                        the fall work was done, the crop in, and arrangements for winter were made, in consideration of
                        the work which I had performed through the Summer, Father took me and my scanty ward, robe and
                        library, all which was contained in a small 
                     
                        5 This institution, now known as Western Reserve University, was
                                moved to 
                                    Cleveland
                                 in 1882. Alfred Mathews, 
                           
                                        Ohio
                                     and Her Western Reserve (
                                    New York
                                , 1902), 197.
                  
                         trunk to 
                            Meadville
                        
                        
                            Crawford County
                        , Pa. Dr. M. Ruter,6 the President was not yet arrived, and was
                        not expected until about the first of Nov. The College had opened on the first Monday of Sept.
                        My arrival was about the twentieth, and was entered the fifth student on the roll. There were
                        but four students besides myself, Ira Brunson, son of Alfred Brunson, who was then presiding
                        Elder, on the Meadville District, two sons of Judge Shipen, who then resided in town, and
                        Marcellus A. Ruter. My tuition was paid for the first Term, and I was left with three dollars
                        and forty five cents in my pocket, and with any means to pay my boarding.
                    Before I proceed to my adventures at College, perhaps a word in refference to the history of this
                        Institution may not be unacceptable; as it now stands prominent among the first seats of
                        Learning in the land.
                    Dr. [Timothy] Alden, a Presbyterian Clergyman, in early times came from 
                            Massachusetts
                         and took charge of the Congregation at Meadville and formed the idea of founding a
                        College. For this purpos he obtained a donation of eleven acres of land adjoining town, and
                        traveled extensively soliciting funds to erect buildings, and books for a Library. The Edifice
                        was put up, consisting of a main building sixty feet square, and three stories high, with a
                        basement, and two wings each two stories-the whole fronting the town, on an elvation, and
                        presenting a noble appearance. The donations to the Library consisted of nearly ten thousand
                        volumes, five thousand were obtained from one individual, Gov. Winthrop,7
                        and three thousand from Dr. [William] Bentl[e]y. The institution was open for the reception of
                        students, but the attendance was slim, and a debt of three thousand dollars was hanging over the
                        institution, without means of payment.
                    In the summer of of 1834, at the session of the 
                            Pittsburgh
                         Conference, a tender of the College and grounds was made to the M. E. Church, if
                        the conference would assume the 
                     
                        6 Rev. Martin Ruter, president of Allegheny College,
                                1833–1837. "The verdict of his contemporaries is that he was one of
                                the extraordinary men of his age. No clergyman of the Methodist connection displayed a
                                greater versatility in function and office, save possibly certain members of the
                                Episcopacy." Ernest A. Smith, Allegheny: A Century of Education,
                                    1815–1915 (Meadville, Pa., 1916), 85.
                     
                        7 Nutt seems to be in error to call him "Gov."
                                "He was a descendant of the famed first governor … of 
                                    Massachusetts
                                … . Judge James Winthrop was one of the charter Trustees of
                                Alleghany [sic] in 1817." Ibid., 43,
                            45.
                  
                         indebtedness and obligate themselves to put the College in
                        successful operation The offer was accepted, and the Board of instruction organized, consisting
                        of Rev. Martin Ruter D. D. President, Rev. Homer J. Clark A.M. Prof, of Mathematics and Augustus
                        W. Ruter A. M. Professor of Languages. Under this arrangement, the institution had opened when I
                        entered its halls.
                    The Professor of Mathematics, Rev. H. J. Clark welcomed me to the institution, exhibiting much
                        kindness. There was no place in the town of Meadville, where I could get boarding for mere
                        manual labor. The advantage of being a tradesman was then manifest. As there was a young man by
                        the name of Burton, who entered the College the same week obtained part of the price of his
                        boarding by labor in a wagonshop. I was not prepared for any business except that of farming.
                        Upon inquiry a place was obtained with a man who lived a mile and a half from the College in a
                        very retired spot, where I engaged my board at a dollar and a half per week, and was to pay by
                        chopping cord-wood at the rate of twenty five cents per cord—That is, six cords per
                        week for board, and to walk a mile and a half, were the most favorable terms on which I could
                        commence College life. This plantation was owned by a man of the name of Doughty an excentric
                        individual, who possessed both talent and erudition, and commence life prosperously, but being
                        crossed in love matters he had lived a hermit's life for many years, in this retired
                        spot. He had however married in later years and had a very kind lady for his companion and two
                        children. I stoped at this place not quite a week, when on my way to College with my Books, a
                        gentleman driving a load of wood to town accosted me, in a very friendly manner, and informed me
                        that a friend of his by the name of Worter, who kept a public one mile from the village, and
                        about on half that distance from the institution would furnish me board for about two hours work
                        during the day. that is, "for doing the chores," in the parlance of the people
                        of that neighborhood. A trensfer of lodgings accordingly took place, and I was soon comfortably
                        esconced at Mr. Worters. Here times moved swimingly, for a little more than four weeks, the
                        little jobs of labor occupied my attention only about two hours each day, and the rest of the
                        time was diligently appropriated to study. At the close of the period above named,  the Nephew of my kind host arrived from 
                            New York
                        , a poor young man purposing to attend College, and thus he filled my place, which
                        left me without a home. While I was here another misfortune crossed my path, the little cash
                        remaing was stolen, and without a cent, and without acquaintances my condition was by no means
                        enviable. I had felt when my father left to return, that peculiar sensation and depression
                        called, "homesickness." This had nearly worn off, but now returned, with
                        double force. My thoughts reverted frequently to home and its comforts and endearments and I
                        concluded that I had not started to go to College, I would be content to stay at home and
                        cultivate the land which father had offered. But the Rubicon was passed, and I could not bear
                        the thought of making a failure. To leave the recitations of the College was now absolutely
                        necessary, at least for a time. I must have some money, and therfore labored for my landlord a
                        week A friend of mine, with whom I had been associated at the Academy in Farmington, came to see
                        me in the time of deepest mental depression. He was employed by the Presiding Elder on 
                            Cambridge
                         Circuit which adjoined Meadville. In that dark and lonly hour, his visit took me by
                        surprise, and afforded me great relief. He voluntarily offered look out for a school within the
                        bounds of the Circuit and write at the end of the week. So on Saturday I received a note from
                        him, that I come immediately to the flats of Le Boeuff, Creek, twenty miles up French Creek, the
                        spot where, the youthful 
                            Washington
                         met the French officer and delivered the despatches from Gov. [Robert] Denwidie
                        [Dinwiddie]. He a school could be had which might be taught for four months, at fourteen dollars
                        a month. This brought relief in my perplexity, and my resolution was at once taken. On the
                        following Monday morning I tied up my cloaths in a pocket-kerchief and started on foot to walk
                        to the place designated, I had only thirty seven and a half cents. It had snowed the day before
                        on unfrozen ground, and it was then misting, and thawing which rendered the walking very
                        laborious and difficult. Just as the sun went down on the evening of the twelveth of Nov. 1833,
                        I crossed the bridge over French Creek, and entered upon the Flats Le Boeuff. Sol, which had
                        been hidden all day, show out brilliantly for a few moments just before he sunk below the
                        horizon, It presented a cheering contrast to the gloom of the day, as it  painted the landscape in golden tints, affording the rich hues of
                        autum. It seemed a good omen, and I felt encouraged. Having advanced about a mile farther on the
                        road to 
                            Waterford
                        . I called at the House designated by my friend Dillon Prosar [Prosser]. Very kind
                        was the welcome with which I was greeted by that warm hearted man and Christian, Bro. John Ford.
                        My wants were all carefully provided for, and I soon felt quite at home. I went early to rest
                        after my weary days journey, and slept until awaked by the call to breakfast the next morning.
                        The morning found the neighborhood in great alarm, in consequence of that wonderfull shower of
                            meteors8 which fell all over North America. Many were much alarmed,
                        believing that the Last day had come, and that the general Judgement was about to set, as the
                        stars seemed really falling from heaven. Bro. Ford in the morning, visited the householders, in
                        the district and they were to hold a meeting that night, which it was expected that I should and
                        stand an examination upon the Branches that were to be taught in the school. Three of their
                        number were appointed as examiners, who passed me through Geography, Grammar, Arithmetic,
                        Reading, Writing, and autography They thought that I would answer their purpose so far as
                        literary qualifications were concerned, but such was my boyish appearance that they expressed a
                        doubt whether I had brass enough to govern the school as it was to consist for the most part of
                        youth who were grown. They gave me a trial however, but could not agree to give me more than
                        twelve dollars a month, as a gentleman by the name of Allen an old School Teacher, and a
                        graduate of West Point, had offered to teach for that price, and as his father lived in the
                        neighborhood and was one of the patrons of the school, it would not do to give the stranger
                        striplin a higher price. The agreement was made and the school commenced. I taught missing no
                        day from the commencement to the close, spending the 
                     
                        8 "The first general interest in the subject [meteors]
                                was excited by the brilliant meteoric display of Nov. 13, 1833. This shower of fire can
                                never be forgotten by those who witnessed it. As early as 10 o'clock on the
                                evening of the 12th shooting stars were observed with unusual frequency… .
                                The meteors, however, became more and more numerous till 4, or half past 4
                                o'clock; and the fall did not entirely cease till ten minutes before sunrise.
                                From 2 to 6 o'clock the numbers were so great as to defy all efforts at
                                counting them. The meteors varied in apparent magnitude from the smallest visible points
                                to fire-balls equaling the moon in diameter." Daniel Kirkwood,
                                    Comets and Meteors (
                                    Philadelphia
                                , 1878), 69.
                  
                         winter in a very pleasant manner. The pupils were large, and
                        none attended but what could read. This together with the kindness of the community rendered it
                        one of the most agreeable winters that I ever spent. On the last day of the Term I was taken
                        very pleasantly by surprise, as we had a kind examination the patrons of the school came in, and
                        settled up their bills and one of the leading men by the name of Smith, proposed that as I had
                        been a faithful Teacher, My salary should be made up to fourteen dollars a month, which was
                        readily assented to, and the money paid down with the exception of one dollar, due from a
                        gentleman who was absent from home at whose house I was to call and get it the next morning.
                        This was the only case in which an entire school Bill was met in my experience. Thus I was
                        provided with funds to defray my expenses for some time longer at College.
                    Chapter. II Religious Experience
                    During the winter of 1833 and 1834, I joind the M.E. Church on trial as seeker of religion. It
                        may be as well perhaps here to insert an account of my religious training and conversion to God.
                        My Mother was raised a baptist, my father a presbyterian, though neither of them belong to the
                        Church of their fathers. When they came to the west, they found the Methodists here, who had
                        kept pace with the frontier settlements Here they joied the Society soon after they were married
                        and professed religion. From my ealiest recollection, I was taught the great principles of
                        Christian doctrine and my obligations to God and eternity I was taken to Church by my parents,
                        when very small, the preaching the singing and revival scenes are among my earliest
                        recollections. My Mother used to take me sometimes to her closet, and laying her hand upon my
                        head plead for the mercy of Heaven upon her little boy. This impression is the dearest and most
                        enduring. Scarse a day passes even now, but that beautiful image, and those sweet tones of my
                        Mother recur with increasing freshness to my memory. Long Since she has gone to the repose of
                        the saints, but a holy influence, as if her prayers were still dily answered, seems still shed
                        around me; and my faith is strong that soon I shall meet her, in the bloom of immortal youth,
                        where the word farewell will never be pronounced.
                    
                    For a time, though enjoying statedly the means of grace, I was unfortunately drawn in careless
                        society, and joined in the inconsiderate follies of my youthful associates. In the midst of my
                        gayety, I was often seriously impressed, and felt the utter insufficiency of all earthly
                        pleasures. I soon perceived the superiority of intellect and the high order of pleasures, which
                        the understanding affords, compared will all the gratifications of sense. I directed my puruit
                        of happiness in that direction, and resolved to cultivate my intellectual powers. Soon I found,
                        however that the immortal spirit required something more—that nothing short of
                        immortality would prove effectual. When in my seventeeth year, I was deeply convicted of sin,
                        under the preach of the Gospel, and could not refrain from tears, but the sermon closed, and the
                        impression gradually subsided. In August 1833, I accompanied my cousin Chester Morrison to a
                        Cammeeting. He had been licensed to preach as a local preacher a short time before, a paid a
                        visit to my father on his way and invited me to go with him. We arrived on friday, The
                        Campmeeting was just beginning, and the people were full of zeal and hope, looking for a rival
                        (revival?]. Friday evening and Saturday morning passed without any thing remarkable, save the
                        the increase of religious interest In the afternoon, my thoughts were peculiarly exercised. The
                        people were praying with great fervency and power in the altar and some of the tents and souls
                        were being converted and loud shouts of praise were going up, which echoed through the grove.
                        The noise commingled, presented a stange scene of confusion, wildness, and extravagance It
                        seemed as if they must be deranged, and that they were indulging in the extreme of wilde
                        delusion and folly. I felt provoked and angered at their ardor and labor as it appeared to me
                        without any object or reason. I was standing against a tree a little distance from the altar
                        wondering at the singular spectacle of a company of reasonable beings, making themselves
                        extremely ridiculous. While standing there my Cousin came and and kinkly inquired, what I
                        thought of these things, I immediately unbosomed my heart, and told him frankly all that I
                        thought. In reply, he said it was the temptation of the Devil, that presented the scene in such
                        a light. He suggested that it was not worth while to argue the truth of Christianity then, as
                        the whole might be satisfactorily in short metre, by testing the matter  for myself. By seeking religion in the manner prescribed by the
                        gospel, by repentance and faith in Christ, I would experience its truth or falsity, and if found
                        to be truth, it was the most important truth that the world has even known, and if found to be
                        false, the discovery would be of the highest benefit; besides there could result no harm from
                        the trial. This suggestion seemed reasonable, and I assented to its correctness, and promised to
                        make the trial that night. This led me to think upon the gospel plan of salvation, the goodness
                        of God the wickness and depravity of my own heart; and ere the sun went down I was deeply
                        penitent. When the time for evening preaching came, I took my seat in the altar, in order that I
                        might be better situated to carry out my resolution. Before the sermon was over I was desolved
                        with weeping. Bro. [D.] Goddard whom I had often heard preach before of whose talents I had not
                        the highest opinion, held forth, in a plane, simple Gospel sermon which went to my heart the
                        great deep of was broken up and I was ready to cry out for mercy. At the close, an invita- was
                        given for mourners to come to the altar. Among the first I was down upon my knees praying for
                        pardon and deliverance. It was midnight when the exercises closed, and the mourners were taken
                        to the tents. At the one to which I was taken, the prayer meeting continued some two hours
                        longer; yet I found no relief. In the morning as I awoke, I was severely tempted in a manner
                        which seemed overwhelming. The onset of the adversary was most furious and for a moment I sunk
                        under it. It was suggested at the moment of awaking. "Now you have made a fool of
                        yourself. You have been at the altar, and professed to be seeking the favor of God. Your are
                        ruined!" I tried to look to God in prayer, and the assault was over and the tempter
                        gone, and a sweet calm and peace filled my mind. About nine o'clock on Sabbath Morning
                        I retired to the grove and kneeled at the foot of sugar tree, the voice of singing and prayer
                        could be heard from the ground, and the woods was echoing with the praises of the great Jehovah.
                        After earnestly wrestling in prayer for more than half an hour, light and joy broke into my soul
                        I was astonished at myself, at my feelings toward the world of mankind. I had before felt that I
                        cared but little for others, and thought that none cared for me. All around the world was cold
                        and selfish. But 0! how changed now. I loved every one, Not one of the human family were there
                        but I could have taken them in  my arms. I had not an enemy
                        in the world. All the material world seemed new and joyful. The sun shone brighter than ever I
                        had seen it before, the grove was more delightful—the birds sang more sweetly, the
                        breezes were more bland, and all nature was filled with the glory of God. A happy frame of mind
                        continued with me. Yet I could not believe that it was religion. Though I loved God and my
                        neighbor-My heart was filled with love. I was invited to join the Church. But I wanted the
                        internal witness that I was a child of God. I had resolved not to unite with the people of God
                        until I had experienced religion.
                    My happy state of mind continued for weeks and months during which time I was careful not to
                        indulge in any known sin, and attended faithfully to private prayer. I was a constant attendant
                        on the means of grace, so far as I was permitted, I enjoyed preaching and prayer meetings, and
                        at every opportunity went to the altar as a seeker of religion. I had much consolation in my
                        lonely hours, among strangers when I entered College and during those seasons of trial after
                        losing my money, and had no home. I dreamed one night that I was under the necessity of crossing
                        a chasm of immense depth, into which if I fell, it was certain death, and the only means of
                        crossing, was to walk a grape-vine stretched over it. I hesitated long but some one seemed to
                        say that there was no danger. I at length made the trial, and when in the middle, the vine
                        broke, I was lost! No I was safe on the other side. The Saviour's hand was extended and
                        bore me gently and safely across. Oh! how happy I was at that moment. I awoke and found joy of
                        soul, and peace like a river! Yet strangely I continued to seek religion, and it was not till
                        some six months after I joined the M. E. Church at 
                            Waterford
                        , at a two days meeting held by Joseph Barris who was then agent for the College.
                        Bro Dillon Prosor was present as the junior preacher on the Circuit, and to him I gave my hand.
                        On the first Monday of May 1834 I returned to College, and a class of young men, members of the
                        church, was formed, and in listening to the experience of others my own was expressed, and my
                        faith took hold, and I was unspeakably happy trusting that my sins were all forgiven, and that I
                        was a child of the kingdom. I was soon after appointed leader of the class, which post I held
                        until I left to teach the Seminary in 
                            Franklin
                         the County seat of 
                            Venango County
                         Pensylvania.
                    
                    When quite a boy, the impression came frequently and suddenly, that I should one day be a
                        preacher. I would strive quickly to banish the thought, but still it would return. I felt that
                        it was too high and holy a calling for so poor and ignorant creature as I was. When I started to
                        College I had no profession in view. My preferances were for the study of Law. But as my
                        connection with the halls of learning was approaching disolution, the importance of selecting a
                        profession was pressed more urgently upon my thoughts. All worldly interests were on the side of
                        the law, but then I was not my own,—I belonged to God who had so mercifully preserved
                        me and crowned my feeble efforts for the acquisition of knowledge with unexpected and undeserved
                        success. As preacher of the Gospel of the ever Blessed God, I felt that I should be more useful
                        to the Church and mankind. But by the practice of Law the path seemed open to wealth influence
                        and renown whereas poverty, contempt, sacrifizes, toils and persecutions were awaiting the
                        humble minister of Christ. The struggle was severe and long before I could say, "Here
                        am I, Send me." I found that I was losing my spiritual enjoyment, while I was trying
                        reconcile my mind to another calling; and distress was heaped upon me. Whichever way I turned,
                        the cross seemed to stand before me, and I felt that wo was me if preach not the Gospel of
                        Christ. At length after long prayer, in which I made it a special subject of intersession, that
                        I might have grace to know and do the will of God. I was enable to lay myself on the altar of
                        the Church of God, a Sacrifize never to be removed. I consecrated myself my soul and body time
                        and talents my all to him who purchased me, "not with corruptible things such silver
                        and gold, but by the most precious blood of his son!" Then peace like a river broke in
                        to my soul, and I could feel that the hymn was realized in my poor heart.
                    "The day glides sweetly o'er my head, "Made up of innocence and love;
                        "While soft and silent as the shades, "The nightly minutes gently
                        move."
                    Chapter I.I.I.
                    After a visit to my home during the months of March & April of the spring of 1834, I
                        returned to College on the first monday of May. I found upon entering that I was in advance  of the class, with which I had recited during the proceeding
                        fall. During the four weeks, that I had recited, the preceeding fall, I read Romans and first
                        and second Corrinthians in the Greek Testament Virgils Bucolics and Georgics, and the first book
                        of Euclid's geometry. While teaching, I finished the Graeca Minora, and the first five
                        books in Geometry and made some advancement in Algebra. I had no means sufficient for one Term
                        of five months College life. I pursued the usual course of study, attended with about the usual
                        incidents and ecitements common to students.
                    At the close of the summer Term my means being exhausted it became necessary, to find some mode
                        of gaining a supply. Through the interest of Friends, Dr. Ruter, Alfred Bransons then presiding
                        Elder on the Meadville District, the Academy at Frankling, the County seat of 
                            Venango County
                         was obtained for me, which I taught for six months. Here I saved, above expenses,
                        about twenty dollars a month, which sustained me a year longer at the University which time was
                        diligently improved. I then lacked only one Term of graduating. In addition to the regular
                        studies, I paid attention to French and Hebrew, and could read each of them with considerable
                        facility. Borrowing fifty dollars of my brother I returned to the College after a visit to my
                        friends, about the first of may 1836. I boarded this Term with Prof. H. J. Clark, and derived
                        great advantage from his conversations.
                    At the close of the foregoing spring Term, the two Literary Societies had a contest or a joint
                        exhibition. These were called the Alegheny, and the Philo Franklin; of the latter I was a
                        member. The performances consisted, of Declamations, Essays, Original Orations, and a
                        Discussion. Each society selected a person for each of the above. Five judges were selected, two
                        chosen by each society, and these four were to select the fifth or umpire, and this board were
                        to decide which was the best. I had the honor upon this occasion to represent my society in the
                            Debate9 which was considered the most important. My competitor, was
                        Lewis H. Burton, whose elder Brother, William was then a member of 
                     
                        9 From early records of this literary society at Allegheny College
                                it is thought that the topic of debate was: "Would it be good policy for the
                                nations of Europe immediately to abolish regal government and establish
                                Republics?" Letter from Stanley S. Swartley to Eleanore Cammack, October 16,
                                1956.
                  
                         the Faculty. In this case it was my fortune to suffer defeat
                        by the decision of the Board of Judges, but I consoled myself by the thought that they were but
                        fallible, and still concluded that I had made the best effort. Some of my friends suggested that
                        my competitor hare poweful connexions, and that my effort would have been an honor to any of the
                        sages in congress. This was doubtless by way of consolation. There was one the brightest
                        ornaments at the Institution, by the name of Brown, who also was defeated, the son of a Widow.
                        He never returned to College, and it was supposed in consequence of mortification. He went to 
                            Kentucky
                        , since which I have not heard from him. I did not however take my failure so
                        seriously, but entered upon the last Term of Scholastic life with as good Courage as ever. Being
                        the only graduate I as a matter of course had the first honors, and delivered as my graduating
                        speech the valedictory. The Valedictory over the The degree of Bachelor of Arts was confered, by
                        Dr Ruter, and the Diploma present on 22d September 1836.
                    The Trustees had the kindness to appoint me to the Preceptorship in the Preparatory department on
                        the same day. Thus from the time I started to go to the Academy in Farmington four years had
                        elapsed and I was a regular Alumnus of Allegheny College which I am still proud to call my Alma
                        Mater. I had furnished all my own expenses and passed the regular course of Study, and was only
                        fifty dollars in debt. I attended the Academy five moths and the College two years, the rest of
                        the time, eighteen months was spent in teaching. To do this perseverance and effort were
                        requisite. For the most of that time I retired at 11 at night and arose at 4 in the moring.
                        Study was my business. I scarely permitted any other thought to intrude except religion. For
                        months seventeen hours a day were spent over my books. Had I not been furnish with a
                        constitution naturally strong, my health must have failed, and my life been sacrifised. Through
                        the blessing of God I was preserved. I had not an hour's sickness through this whole
                        period; and though engaged in mental toil so severe, I was comfortable and happy.
                    At the commencement of the winter Term, I took charge of the classes in the Preparatory
                        Department; still pursuing my studies with the same ardour as before I graduated.  Thus commence my connection with Colleges as a Professor, which
                        continued with one interuption of three years until the summer of 1855, a period of nineteen
                        years Time passed pleasantly during the five months Term.
                    It was during that winter that I resolved to make the State of Indiana my home.
                    The vacation in the Fall 1836 was spent by Dr. Ruter, the president, in Indiana, and while there
                        he attended the the session of the Indiana Conference, held at 
                            Indianapolis
                        . At their former session, as their petition to the Legislature to grant them some
                        interest in the State Institution, to give them a professor, or so altar the charter as to give
                        the legislature the power of filling vacancies in the Board of Trustees, (as then the Trustees
                        filled their own vacancies, and a majority of them were presbyterians, and the faculty were all
                        presbyterians) had been treated with contempt had resolved upon founding a College of their own,
                        and had appointed a committee to receive propositions and subscriptions from differ- localities
                        which might ask for the College. 
                     Greencastle,
                                Rockville
                  , 
                            Putnamville
                        , 
                     Madison, Lafayette
                  , and 
                            Indianapolis
                        , presented their claims and the amounts which they severally pledged themselves to
                        raise in aid of the enterprise. At this session, the Committee reported and Green-castle was
                        selected. Dr. M. Ruter, assisted the committee appointed to draft a charter, in drawing up and
                        arranging that instrument. It was passed by the legislature the following winter.10 And according to the plans before adopted the Trustees met, organized and resolved
                        to commence the preparatory department as soon as they could obtain a suitable Teacher.
                    The president conversed with me upon the subject of going to 
                            Greencastle
                        , saying that if I would go he would recommend me to the board of Trustees, and he
                        had no doubt but that the trustees would elect me, and that I would have the opportunity of
                        growing up with the country and the institution But should I prefer remaining I should have a
                        professorship in Allegheny College." I told him that he might recommend me, if he
                        thought proper, to the Trustees, choosing the new country. About the first of March I was
                        elected 
                     
                        10 The petitions to the state legislature are discussed in Sweet,
                                    Indiana Asbury-DePauw University, 27–31, See also Local Laws of Indiana, 1836–1837, pp.
                            9–13.
                  
                         principal of the Preparatory Department, and about the first
                        of May I started for my new home in the west. We had no Rail Roads then, and traveling was slow
                        and tedeous. The first part of the trip was performed by Stage Coach, from Meadville to 
                            Pittsburgh
                        , ninety miles. This was a rough and fatiguing journey, traveling all night over
                        muddy roads, on the next day about two oclock down the beautiful valley of the Allegheny River
                        arose a dark cloud of smoke, and we were informed that there stood the renowned city of
                        manufacturies the 
                            Manchester
                         of the New World. Here we stopped for the night. It was the first time I had ever
                        been in a large City, and every thing I saw a lion [alien?]. The first place I visited was the
                        recevoir, an elvation from which the whole city and its suburbs could be seen. I was out until a
                        late hour "seeing sights," and came very near falling into the hands of the
                        watch as I had lost my way. At length I found my back to the Hotel, and retired at about twelve
                        o clock. The ratling of the drays, and the cry of Watchman, "alls well" kept
                        me from sleep almost all the remainder of the night I found a boat the next morning which was
                        bound for 
                            Cincinnati
                        . I was not to leave until ten o clock and the intervening space was employed in
                        explorations. Allegheny town and the States prision was visited, and some of the Factories and
                        forges. The passage down the 
                            Ohio
                         was delightful, the weather was pleasant the hills were covered with the beatiful
                        green of early vegetation The majestic steamer ploughed its way in the swolen waters. In forty
                        four hours from the time the floating palace left the wharf at 
                            Pittsburgh
                        , it was safely moored at 
                            Cincinnati
                        , which then contained about forty thousand inhabitants. Here after spending a day
                        and a night I took the coach for 
                            Indianapolis
                         a distance of one hundred and ten miles. The rout was by Law-renceburgh and
                        Napoleon, and was accomplished in little less than two days and a night, with tremendous
                        jolting, and the loss of a good umbrella, and the acquisition of some bruises. 
                            Indianapolis
                         was then, though ample in area was small in population, containing about five
                        hundred inhabitants.11 There were but two or three brick houses in the
                        Capital. The most of the dwellings were one story frame. It was a level 
                     
                        11 This estimate is too low. According to the census returns 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 had a population of 2,692 in 1840, as indicated in John D. Barnhart and
                                Donald F. Carmony, Indiana: From Frontier to Industrial Commonwealth
                                (2 vols., 
                                    New York
                                , 1954), I, 419.
                  
                         and delightful situation for a city, and subsequent rapid
                        growth has proven the wisdom of the selection of this site, as the Metropolis of the
                        Commonwealth The State house was just completed, and they were filling the lot and planting the
                        trees.
                    From 
                            Indianapolis
                         was a stage rout forty miles, to Put-namville which was the nearest point which
                        could be reached by public conveyance to 
                            Greencastle
                        . I left 
                            Indianapolis
                        , at day break in the morning and arrived at Putnamville at about four, P. M. From
                        Putnamville I road in a wagon that was going out for hay some two miles, the remainder of the
                        distance was three miles which I walked, reaching my journey's end at 12, M. on the
                        16th of May 1837.
                    Chapter I.V.
                    
                  
                            Greencastle
                         was only about ten years old, small and rough.12 The site was
                        by no means the most pleasant, it being a succession of hills and hollows, The streets were
                        without grading, or side walks except about the public square. Six months in the year mud was an
                        abundant article. The population was about five hundred Yet this place and its vicinity
                        subscribed twenty five thousand dollars to obtain the location of the University and it was
                        exceedingly fortunate that place that it succeeded in its application. Had it failed the county
                        seat would probably have been removed to Putnamville, and 
                            Greencastle
                         would to day have been numbered with the things that were. But the influence given
                        by this institution of Learning, made it a point on the 
                            Indianapolis
                         & Terrehaut Rail Road,13 and gained also the 
                            New Albany
                         and 
                            Michigan
                         Rail Road,14 which render it now a place of great commercial
                        importance. I found the people of the West distinguished for their simplicity, hospitality, and
                        strong common sense. They were decidedly a matter of fact people; fully convinced that they were
                        just as good and wise as any 
                     
                        12 The beginnings of 
                                    Greencastle
                                 and its status in 1837 are noted in Sweet, Indiana
                                    Asbury-DePauw University, 32–34, 36. The organization of 
                                    Putnam County
                                 had become effective in 1822 and 
                                    Greencastle
                                 was made the county seat in 1823, as indicated in George Pence and Nellie
                                C. Armstrong, Indiana Boundaries: Territory, State, and County (
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 1933), 694–696; this is Volume XIX of Indiana Historical Collections.
                     
                     
                        13 Now the 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                 Railroad.
                     
                        14 Now known as the Monon.
                  
                         other community east or West. I was delighted with my
                        western home. Of one thing I was soon thoroughly convinced, that modesty which was a high
                        recommendation in 
                            Pennsylvania
                        , was at considerable discount in Indiana, and that no aspirant for public notoriety
                        was particularly backward in recommending his own claims. In an other respect, the usages
                        materially differed. It was expected of every candidate for office that he should take the stump
                        and canvass the district or county and openly electioneer for himself. This seemed to me
                        especially strange; for I had never heard a stump speech until I came to Indiana. That a
                        candidate should electioneer for himself would have been regarded at that period, as an
                        unpardonable offense.
                    I found boarding at Bro. W[illia]m. K. Cooper's who was a member of the Board of
                        Trustees, and a very worthy member of the Church, Here I found a very kind home for six months.
                        Preparatory department was to open on the fifth of June and as yet the county seminary building
                        was not ready and would not be, for two months As the time for the commencement neared, a room
                        in the old town school House, a one story Brick about thirty by twenty was obtained, the West
                        end of this building long since demolished was the birth place of literary department of Indiana
                        Asbury University. On the Day appointed, and announced through the public journals for the
                        opening, I repaired to the room appointed the old delapidated building. Five pupils appeared,
                        barefooted, and without coats; they were boys from town. There was another school in the
                        adjoining room, taught by Mr. M'Cochran, one of the old Pedagouges of the Ferule stamp.
                        The school had been commenced by Mr. [John C.] Newell, who had been appointed to 
                            Greencastle
                         station, but the People were disatisfied, and he was changed from the work, and
                        Rev. Benj[amin]. N[icholas]. Barnes, was appointed in his place. Bro. Newell was changed to
                        Bowling green Circuit but declined going to this charge, but remained at 
                            Greencastle
                         and engaged in Teaching. He received a better offer at Terrehaute and employed Mr.
                        M'Cochran to finish the Term. Rev. B. J. Barnes was an excellent preacher,15 but died at 
                            Crawfordsville
                         the next year. The College year was divided into two terms, the first commencing on
                        the first monday of may, the second the first monday 
                     
                        15 It seems likely that Nutt intended to write
                                "teacher" here.
                  
                         in November; the vacations embraced the months of April and
                        October, and the Tuition was fixed16 and other necessary arrangements made,
                        in regular Collegiate style.
                    We occupied this room two weeks, and then graduated to the larger room, as Mr. M'Cochran
                        school had closed.
                    The twentieth of June was an era for 
                            Greencastle
                        , and also in the history of the Indiana Asbury University. It was the day appointed
                        for laying the corner stone of the principle College Eddifice and the Rev. H[enry]. B. Bascom
                        was invited to deliver the address upon that occassion, and had accepted. Expectation was great.
                        The occassion, the unrivaled reputation of the speaker of the day, the greatest orator of the
                        west, if not of the world awakened an interest unparalled along the hills and vallies and
                        prairies of Western Indiana. 
                            Greencastle
                         was put in its tidiest trim, and the doors of the citizens were thrown open to
                        entertain the guests who were expected upon the occassion. On Monday, the 19th the crowd began
                        to appear and by night, the town was full. The came from all parts of the state, and it was
                        estimated that ten thousand people were present on the next day. The renowned Dr. Bascom had
                        arrived and taken lodgings at the house of one of our principles citizens and the hum of
                        preparation was heard in the streets of our town. The order of the day, was first a sermon at 9
                        o clock in the morning by Rev. Hooper Crews of 
                            Illinois
                        , at the M. E. Church. At eleven, the procession was formed, and marched to site of
                        the University, and over the stone which was prepared, and the inclosed articles a speech was
                        made by Calvin Fletcher Esq of 
                            Indianapolis
                        . This address was brief and heard by comparatively few of the immense crowd which
                        had gathered. The procession was again formed and proceeded to a grove at the south West border
                        of town, where temporary seats were prepared, which accommodated about one fourth of the
                        audience. The stand was occupied by the Orator of day Revs. A [lien]. Wiley James Havens, Calvin
                        Ruter, E[dward]. R[aymond]. Ames, and other chief ministers of the Conference. Prayer was
                        offered by E. R. Ames, after 
                     
                        16 Tuition per term in college, $12.00;
                                janitor's fees, fuel, etc., winter term, $1.50. First
                                    Annual Catalogue of the Officers and Students of Indiana Asbury University (
                                    Greencastle
                                , Indiana, August, 1839). A copy of this rare catalogue is filed in the
                                Archives of DePauw University and Indiana Methodism.
                  
                         which, the Dr. Proceeded with his address, which he read,
                        complaining of hoarseness as the day was exceedingly chilly for the season, he asked the
                        privilege of speaking, with his hat on. He pronounced a eulogy upon learning, traversed the
                        fields of ancient literature and 
                            Greece
                         and 
                            Rome
                         were brought under large tribute. Then he descanted upon modern discovery and and
                        the triumphs of science; closing with a powerful peroration applicable to the occasion.
                    During an interlude caused by a slight shower of rain mixt with snow, the speaker sat down for a
                        few moments a countrymen, who had furnished himself with a loaf of gingerbread, stept up behind
                        the stand and plucked the Dr. by the pants, breaking a piece of his loaf offered it to the Dr.
                        Bascom, saying, "as you have been speaking hard you must be hungry. Take a
                        piece." The address lasted about two hours, but left every body in good humor; and made
                        a very favorable impression.
                    Some six weeks, had passed from the commencement of the Literary Department, when we moved our
                        quarters to the County Seminary building, a two story Brick about thity six feet by twenty. This
                        held us nearly three years. The number of student increased to fifteen before the close of the
                        first term, which ended with an exhibition about the middle of September.17
                        The exhibition attracted great attention and elicited considerable applause. At the meeting of
                        the Trustees the College proper was organized and the regular professorships created, and I was
                        elected to the Professorship of Languages with a salary of five hundred dollars per annum. A
                        committee was appointed, to correspond for a Professor of mathematics, of which Rev. Allen Wiley
                        was chairman. The number of pupils during the winter Term was about forty. By this time a number
                        had come from a distance, and my labor became quite severe as I had to hear some thirteen
                        classes each day, besides corresponding and acting as president. The winter Term closed in
                        march, at which we had quite a display, The Literary Society had an exhibition, and the Rev.
                        W[illia]m. M. Daily who was then agent for the College addressed them, and his address was
                        published by order of the Platonean Society, and was generally 
                     
                        17 The original of the "Order of exercises" of
                                this exhibition is filed in the Archives of DePauw University and Indiana
                            Methodism.
                  
                         circulated, and noticed very favorably by Dr. [Charles]
                        El[l]iott of Western Christian advocate.*
               
                    At the spring session of the Board, Matthew Simpson A. M. Professor of Natural Science in
                        Allegheny College, at my suggestion was elected To the chair of Mathematics, and Dr. [Joseph S.]
                        Tomlinson, President of Augusta College was elected President Both of these declined the offers,
                        and I still remained sole professor. Mr. R[ees]. Hardesty Treasurer of the Trustees went to 
                            Cincinnati
                         to inquire for a Teacher who should be prepared to take charge of the preparatory
                        Department Rev. J[ohn]. W. Weakl[e]y, upon the recom-of Dr. Elliott, was appointed to that post,
                        and soon after arrived in 
                            Greencastle
                         prepared to enter upon his duties. He was not the most thorough linguist, nor the
                        closest student, and consequently his success was but moderate as a Teacher. The number of
                        students continued to increase, and the Philological society was formed during the summer
                        session. There were kept up still semi-annual examinations and exhibitions, and the Board of
                        Trustees met also semi-annually.
                    In the fall of this year, I was received on trial in the Indiana Conference, which held its
                        session in 
                            Rockville
                         about the twentieth of October, Bishop [Joshua] Soul[e] Presiding. During my last
                        year at Allegheny College, I had held licence to exhort. Several times by walking four or five
                        miles into the country, I obtained an opportunity of exercising my one talent in this regard.
                        Just as I was leaving Meadville, by the Leaders Meeting, through the suggestion of Rev.
                        E[dward]. Burket[t], recommended to the Quarterly Conference, as a suitable person to receive
                        license as a Local Preacher in the M. E. Church At the Quarterly Conference which met in a few
                        days, License was accordingly furnished signed by Isaac Wynnins [Winans] P[residing]. E[lder].
                        on Meadville Dist. Erie Con. I soon started on my way to Indiana, and Bro. [Samuel C.] Cooper P.
                        E. on the 
                            Greencastle
                         Dist. learning that I was a Preacher, invited me to attended the Quarterly meeting
                        Conference, and my letter was received and, I was admitted as a member of that body.
                    
                  
                     * Some time in the winter, I received a note from Rev. Wm. M. Daily,
                            that he would be happy to address the society if the Society would call him to that duty. I
                            suggested the matter to Thos. A. Goodwin, who was one of the founders of the Society, and
                            the invitation was accordingly and accepted. C. Nutt.
               
                    
                    My first sermon was attempted at 
                            Greencastle
                        , where soon after my arrival I was caught up standing. I had go to the Church on
                        Sunday morning as usual, expecting to hear brother Barnes. The congregation had assembled, and
                        no preacher appeared. Soon word came, "that the preacher was sick." The
                        stewards came to me requesting me to preach, and as was the only preacher present insisted that
                        I must try. I plead to be excused but it was of no avail. Preach I must. I ascended the pulpit
                        with quaking heart and trembling limbs, after the preliminary services, I gave out for a text,
                        the Text. "How shall we escape if we neglect so great salvation." I enlarged
                        upon the subject of salvation with more liberty than I had anticipated, and retured to my
                        lodgings with a very severe head-ache, frightened as much after it was all over at what I had
                        done, as I was when in the pulpit. Bro. R. Hardesty however called at my room after dinner and
                        gave me some consolation, speaking of my effort in the highest terms. I continued to preach
                        occassionally as long as I remained in 
                            Greencastle
                        . A recommendation for admission into the Annual Conference was taken up that fall.
                        My admission was however opposed by E. R. Ames on the ground that I was not in the regular work.
                        The objection prevailed and I was not admitted.* At the next conference, E.
                        R. Ames was not present, and no objection was made. The Bishop, also spoke in reference to the
                        question, deciding, "that it was admissable to admit into the connexion, and appoint to
                        institutions of learning, and that he felt disposed to take these institutions under the watch
                        care of the church"
                    In March 1839. at the semi- Annual meeting of the Trustees, Rev. M. Simpson was elected
                        President, with a salary of one thousand dollars per annum; which was then considered a fair
                        provision. (Dr. Martin Ruter, received only seven hundred while president of Allegheny College.)
                        The Professor accepted and came with his family the last of April, and on the first monday in
                        may took charge as president. The Faculty consisting, of Mat [t] hew Simpson, A. M. President
                        and Prof, of moral science. Cyrus Nutt A. M. Prof. Languages and literature. J. W. Weakley, A.
                        M. Preceptor of the Preparatory Department. Regular College classes 
                     
                        * This was the public objection, but those in the surest, said it
                                was a private matter, there being a feud existing between Ames and C. Ruter, I come not
                                endorsed from the right quarter, and it was a fear that the influence of the latter
                                would be increased. [C. Nutt].
                  
                         were organized and in the fall, the first Catalogue was
                        published. Great harmony prevailed among the faculty, and excepting one or two hard cases, the
                        students were orderly and diligent, and their numbers continued to increase.
                    According to a resolution adopted by the Conference in 1838 The centenary of Methodism was to be
                        observed during this year,18 and it desired to make it turn to the financial
                        benefit of the University. It was proposed to meet in conven-at 
                            Indianapolis
                         on the 4th of July, to devise means to carry out this object. Notice was given
                        through the papers, and the ministers and laymen interested should meet at 
                            Indianapolis
                        , at the time above refered to. On the third, the faculty of the University
                        proceeded to the Metropolis, and were kindly received and entertained by Bro. J. Wilkins. The
                        morning of the 4th was taken up in celebration of the sunday Schools. The convention met at two
                        o clock and was very poorly attended, only some half a dozen ministers being present. A plan was
                        agreed upon, which was to present the claims of the University in all the Congregations and
                        subscriptions taken, and that the names be transcribed into a Register prepared for that
                        purpose, together with the amounts which each give, and that this Book should be laid up in the
                        archives of the University, that it might be known to subsequent generations, who were the
                        benefactors of the University. The convention, at least, was a splendid failure, the amount
                        however thus obtained was quite respectable. In the evening, M. Simpson was announced for a
                        sermon. A large congregation was in attendance to hear the new president. The President preached
                        a very plain, fair discourse, but not remarkable for brilliancy or power. He indeed felt that it
                        was a failure, and the great men, of the Conference who had manifested a disposition to treat us
                        a little cavalierly, as imported teachers, were more distant on the next day than ever. These
                        were some of the aspiring young men, who were jealous of strangers and that the professorships
                        should be filled by men taken from the conference. Among the most rampant of these was Wm. M.
                        Daily took every occasion to manifest his preference 
                     
                        18 "The British Methodists fix September 19, 1739, as the
                                epochal period of Methodism, because John Wesley began his public ministry at this time.
                                Hence they determined to celebrate the centenary of Methodism in 1839… . The
                                Methodists in America also joined in the general celebration, although their centenary
                                proper did not come until about twenty-seven years afterwards." Matthew Simpson
                                (ed.), Cyclopedia of Methodism (
                                    Philadelphia
                                , 1878), 179.
                  
                         for western men, and not with the greatest delicacy
                        possible, walked over the feelings of members of the Faculty, and in his address before the
                        Society he went out of his way to abuse eastern men, and to prove their unfitness for western
                        Institutions. Rev. Allen Wiley upon this as we we were leaving 
                            Indianapolis
                         in biding us good by, remarked that "he had one objection to the Faculty,
                        they were all young men." M. Simpson pleasantly replied, "that there was a
                        remedy for youth, but none for age." This prejudice was however entirely swept away, at
                        least so far as President Simpson was concerned, by a very happy effort whi he made at the
                        ensuing Conference at Lawrenceburgh He was appointed to preach the Centenary Sermon before the
                        Conference, and in his effort he was fortunately most triumphant. The Conference took him in
                        their and their leaders were compelled to yield, and from that time President Simpson became the
                        most popular ministers in the State. Some of the rest of us were not so fortunate, but then it
                        was not so necessary for the good of the institution. From that time, it was not long before the
                        President received the degree of D.D. from the Weslyan University,19 thence
                        his career was one of uninterrupted success. In the summer of 1840, the first regular
                        Commencement was held and the President was regularly inaugurated, by a Charge delivered by Gov.
                        [David] Wallace, and an inaugural address from the President. The new Building was so far
                        completed that, it had been occupied for several months, and these exercises were the first
                        consecration of its halls to the purposes for which they had been built. A band of music was
                        also obtained which discoursed the melody of sweet sounds. The first born of Indiana Asbury
                        University, were John Wheeler of Belle Fountaine O. and T[homas]. A. Goodwin of 
                            Brookville
                         Ia.; and in the scientific Department Joseph McDonald, James Maddox20 and Strange Dunn.
                    Another change was made in the faculty at close of this year Prof. J. W. Weakly resigned, and
                        Rev. Wm. C. Larrabee,21 was elected to the "chair of Mathematics
                        and Natural 
                     
                        19 Wesleyan University, 
                                    Middletown
                                , Conn.
                     
                        20 The DePauw University Alumnal Register
                                    …, 1837–1900 (Green-castle, Indiana, 1901), 31, lists the
                                name as Finley L. Maddox.
                     
                        21 Rev. Larrabee, a graduate of Bowdoin College, came to Indiana
                                Asbury University in 1840 as Professor of Mathematics and Natural Science. In 1848 he
                                became acting president of the University. In 1852 he became editor of the Western Christian Advocate, published in 
                                    Cincinnati
                                . He was elected the first superintendent of public instruction of Indiana
                                in 1852, which position he held until 1854. In 1856 he was re-elected to this position.
                                He died in 1859. Ibid., xxix.
                  
                         Science." On the evening of the day before
                        commencement I was sent for, and requested to be present at the meeting of the Board. When I
                        entered I found E. R. Ames and Dr. Simpson present, and a proposition to place me in the chair
                        of mathematics, and Weakly in that of Languages. I found that it was expected of me, to bear
                        testimony to the incompetency of Weakly and withdraw my name as a candidate for the mathematical
                        chair In the case of Weakly, his incompetency was a matter of complaint among the best portion
                        of students; but he was notwithstanding very popular with that class, who were disposed to
                        neglect their duties and to indulge in mischief. The Trustees by motion requested Dr. S. and
                        myself to state what we knew about the incompetency of Weakly, when the Dr. arose and stated the
                        complaints of the students and that he was almost invariably the advocate of the delinquent
                        students, and hinted that it would be difficult to mentain the proper discipline among the
                        students while he was connected with the Institution. With the complaints of the students I was
                        familiar, and advised the Doctor to see Weakly and tell him plainly what the Difficulty was and
                        let him take himself out of the way. A resolution was then introduced, declaring his seat
                        vacant, but it was suggested that a milder course would be better, and Rev. James L. Thompson
                        was appointed a committee to request him to resign.22 Which he did in
                        considerable wrath, and recon has hardly forgiven those concerned in this matter until the
                        present time. He went to the 
                            Ohio
                         Conference, and has been appointed to many of the most popular stations in
                        Conference; and is now President of the Female College at 
                            Springfield
                        .23
               
                    The other part of the expectation of my friends Ames & Simpson, was somewhat more
                        personal. But as it was important 
                     
                        22 The account of Weakley's resignation as found in early
                                University records dated Tuesday morning, September 15, 1840, differs somewhat from
                                Nutt's information: "Reverend E. R. Ames presented the following
                                communication. Reverend J. W. Weekly Principal of the preparatory department finding the
                                salary which he received too limited to furnish an adequate support for himself and
                                family begs leave through me to tender to the Joint Board of Trustees and Visitors the
                                resignation of his office… . Therefore Resolved That while the Board accept
                                his resignation they will add one Hundred and Fifty dollars to the Compensation already
                                received by Mr. Weekly, and that the Secretary be ordered to Issue his warrant on the
                                Treasurer for the Same." MS "Minutes of Joint Board of Trustees and
                                Visitors of Indiana University," March 1, 1837- February 25, 1852, p. 117.
                     
                        23
                                
                                    Springfield
                                 High School and Female College.
                  
                         that Prof. Larrabee's services should be obtained,
                        and as it was necessary to get Weakly out of the way, I was assured that I would just then with
                        draw my claims, that in a short time I should have the professorship of mathematics and Larrabee
                        would take that of Natural science. So I withdrew my name, and the Professor was elected and
                        accepted and arrived with his family in the next April.
                    These pledges however were never to be filled. When an addition to the was required, both Prof.
                        Larrabee's professorship and mine were divided, and Larrabee retained that of
                        Mathematics, and C[harles]. G. Downey was appointed to the Chair of Natural science, and J[ohn].
                        Wheeler was appointed to that of Latin and latin Literature, while I retained that of Greek and
                        Greek literature. The salary of the Chair of Mathematics was higher than that of languages which
                        was kept so, and rendered it a little more desirable on that account, otherwise it was a matter
                        of indifference. I continued in my professorship until the fall of 1843, when I resigned and
                        requested the Bishop to give me regular work. I was appointed to 
                            Bloomington
                         station which I filled two years, and then was appointed to 
                            Salem
                        . At the close of this year I returned the College again to my old post by a
                        unanimous vote of the Trustees. Prof B[enjamin]. F. Tef[f]t D. D. had been called to the Chair
                        after I left and filled it two years and had just been appointed Editor of the Ladies Repository
                        in the place of Dr. E[dward]. Thompson who had resigned it to take charge of the 
                            Ohio
                         Wesleyan University. I remained at the Indiana [Asbury] University until 1849, when
                        I went to 
                            Fort Wayne
                        , to take charge of the Female College there.24 Here I remained
                        but one year. Then I took charge of White Water College,25 which post I held
                        until June 1855 five years when I resigned and at the conference following was appointed to the
                        Centreville Dist. North Ind. Con.
                    In 1840, I passed the regular examinations at 
                            Indianapolis
                         was elected to Deacon's orders ordained by Bishop Soul, and admitted into
                        full connexion. I was ordained elder at Centreville in 1842 by Bishop [Thomas A.] Morris.
                    
                  
                     24 No longer in existence, 
                                Fort Wayne
                             Female College was founded in 1846 under the patronage of the North Indiana
                            Conference of the Methodist Church. Simpson, Cyclopedia of Methodism, 371.
                  
                     25 Whitewater College, at 
                                Centerville
                            , was founded in 1849 under the auspices of the North Indiana and Indiana
                            Conferences. It existed until 1870. Walter E. Spahr, "History of 
                                Centerville
                            ," Earlham College, 1914, pp. 64, 66. MS in 
                                Centerville
                            , Indiana, Public Library.
               
                    
                    In 1838 April 26th I was united in matrimony to miss Amanda Standeford, daughter of Gen John
                            Standeford,26 formerly of 
                            Kentucky
                        , now of 
                            Greencastle
                        . From the time that I left home to go to the Academy I have lived in the vicinity
                        of none of my relatives. But I have never wanted for kind friends who have treated me with all
                        the kindness that my own father or mother could. I am under great obligations to the great ruler
                        of the Universe, who has brought me safe thus far and crowned my efforts with unlooked for
                        success! May the remainder of my days be unreservedly his. I have always felt that I was not my
                        own. When I left my Alma Mater, I gave myself to be Lord, resolved to labor in whatever field
                        his 
                            Providence
                         might indicate. Though I have felt it at all times my duty to be a minister of the
                        Gospel of Christ, and the pastoral work has been the most pleasant of any in which I ever
                        engaged, yet I consented to remain connected with institutions of Learning for fifteen years.
                        But it was at the call of the Church. Because my brethren thought that I could be more useful to
                        the cause of God in that capacity than in any other. I have seen a great many revivals among
                        young men and young ladies at College, who are some of them missionaries in foreign climes, and
                        many on the walls of Zion in different Conferences. But I must say that I am happier in my
                        present field of labor, than I ever was as a professor or President.
                    Chapter V. Finances of Indiana Asbury University.
                    This University was the offspring of the Methodists in Indiana, and was ushered into existence
                        while there was not a dollar in the treasury for its support. Means of course must be supplied
                        or the bantling would soon perish for the want of support. In the first there were the twenty
                        five thousand dollars subscribed by the citizens of 
                            Greencastle
                         and vicinity, but this was designed to be applied for the erection of Buildings;
                        and no resources still were found for the payment of a Faculty. The Conference which adopted the
                        charter 1836. appointed two agents A[aron]. Wood and J[ohn]. 
                     
                        26 The descendants of Standiford and Nutt spell the name with an
                                "i" instead of an "e". It is not known why the title
                                "general" was given to John Standiford. He was born in
                                        
                           Jefferson County, Kentucky
                        , in 1793 and fought as a private in the
                                War of 1812. He lived in 
                                    Greencastle
                                , Indiana, for many years and was buried there in 1882. Letter from Wilbur
                                Helm to Eleanore Cammack dated December 10, 1956.
                  
                         A. Brouse, to travel the state and take up subscritions. The
                        plan on which they operated was the sale of limited scholarships; for three years, at fifty
                        dollars—for six years at one hundred dollars. These agents succeeded in in raising
                        some ten thousand dollars, taking notes for scholarships, payable in four equal annual
                        instalments.
                    During this year, as has been indicated, the Prepartory Department was opened, and the Salary of
                        the Teacher was fixed at four hundred dollars. Tuition was fixed at eight dollars in that
                        department, and ten dollars a session in the College Department, and one dollar for
                        Janitor's fees. There were then ordained that there should be two sessions in the year,
                        One Commencing, the first monday in November, and continuing twenty one weeks, the second
                        beginning the first monday of May and continuing the same number of weeks. The vacations
                        embraced the months of April and October.
                    At the next conference, four agents were appointed. S. C. Cooper Wm. M. Daily, Wm. Shanks, and
                        Za[chariah]. Games. They operated efficiently on the same plan that was adopted the previous
                        year. About forty thousand dollars on paper were raised this year. Besides a noble proposition
                        from E. R. Ames, to be one of ten who would subscribe a thousand dollars each, to endow the
                        professorship of Mathematics, which should be called the Ames Professorship. This proposition
                        was soon filled. At the close of this year, all the agents were discontinued, except S. C.
                        Cooper, who made a very efficient agent, indeed the best that the University ever had. He was
                        authorized to collect the dues, as well as to obtain new subscritions. The available means of
                        the University went on increasing at the rate of from seven to ten thousand dollars per annum.
                    The demands upon the treasury were constantly increasing. The College edifice, which was to be
                        one hundred feet in length by fifty in breadth, and three stories high besides the Atic, was in
                        progress. The workman must be paid and the subscriptions in town for this purpose were met
                        slowly and sometimes reluctantly. Some totaly refused to pay, until they were sued, believing
                        that that the subscription was not collectable in law. One or two cases settled this question in
                        favor of the university. The moneys paid on scholarship notes, was used in part for the erection
                        of the building, with the expectation of replaing it, when the building fund should be
                        collected. The collaps in the financial affairs of the Country, which will  long be many soon after set in, and increased the embarassment.
                        Collections, though the agent did all that any man could do were small. The fact was, that the
                        money was not in the Country. The workmen were paid in College Warrants; and these were sold at
                        a discount for the means of sustenance, and the credit of the institution sank under the
                        presure.
                    The Faculty were sufferes also in these hard times. The first four months the salary of the
                        Preceptor of the preparatory Department was two hundred dollars. Then he was appointed Prof. of
                        Languages with a salary of five hundred per annum. Prof. J. W. Weakly was appoint in the spring
                        of 1838, to serve as Preceptor of the Preparatory Department, with a salary of four hundred, per
                        annum; that made the clain nine hundred dolars for that year. The next, Pres. Simpson was added,
                        and his salary fixed at nine hundred, and mine as professor of languages was increased a hundred
                        dollars as was Weakly's also Making two thousand for Professors' Salaries.
                        From this time till the fall of 1843, the teachers were paid in College warrants. Frequently a
                        whole year passing, with out so much as five dollars coming into the hands of any one Professor.
                        I did not receive money enough to pay my postage; and S. C. Cooper had to settle it and I paid
                        him in College warrants. So for all the necessaries of life, our active and busy agent, would
                        hunt up those in the country who had subscribed, to erection of the building, and them to haul
                        us wood, and bring us articles of food, and he would credit the amount on their notes.
                    In the fall of 1843, The Trustees negotiated a Loan from the Bank of twenty five hundred hundred
                        dollars, and paid off the out-standing warrants of the Faculty, and in consideration of prompt
                        payment they consented to a reduction of their salaries one hundred dollars each. The
                        President's was made $800. Prof. Larabees, $600, Prof.
                        Nutt's $500. Wheeler's $400, and Downey's
                        $400.
                    In 1844, at the spring session a plan for the permanent endowment of the University was adopted
                        by the Board. When the sale of Perpetual scholarships for one hundred dollars each with certain
                        limitations and restrictions as set forth in the Bond for schollarship was sanctioned by the two
                        Conferences into which Indiana had by this time been divided, and each Conference appointed two
                        agents to carry out the scheme Those for Indiana Conference, were Isaac Owen, and W[illiam]. C.
                        Smith, and Aron Wood, and J[ohn]. C. Smith of North Indiana.
                    
                    In the meantime efforts were to be made by private donations from the Preachers and members of
                        the Church for the relief of the Faculty. This measure only partially succeeded, and after a few
                        years was laid asside.
                    The scholarship plan, by the untiring and indefatigable labors of the agents and especially those
                        of Isaac Owen to whom the Institution is greatly indebted, was crowed with complete success; so
                        that now there are nearly seventy thousand dollars invested, yielding a revenue of
                        $7000 per annum, and furnishing ample for all current expenses. And it is anticipated
                        that soon that one hundred thousand will be invested, and the Institution be triumphantly borne
                        beyond pecuniary wants.
                    An increase in the salaries took place in 1853 and the President's fixed at thirteen
                        hundred dollars and those of the rest of the Faculty increased, but not in the same ratio. In
                        1855 the salaries of the Professors was made nine hundred and the Preceptor eight hundred and in
                        1856, one thousand dollars was given to each of the Professors and fourteen hundred to the
                        President, and to the Adjunct, professor nine hundred; thus the sum annually paid to the Faculty
                        is seven thousand three hundred dollars
                    In the main the Board have managed the Financial affairs with discretion. In the early stagese of
                        the history of the University with very commendable economy as to teachers salaries, but not so
                        with regard to the construction of the edifice; which cost the Board about twenty five thousand
                        dollars, when it ought not to have cost more than fifteen or eighteen thousand. The
                        superintendent was employed at a salary of $1200 a year and continued several years,
                        and the workman were all employed by the trustees directly, there being no contractor.
                    The first President, M. Simpson was a man of singular ability in many respects. He was
                        exceedingly popular both the students and people. He was affable and exceedingly kind in address
                        and conversation, and seldom failed in make a favorable impression upon every one with whom he
                        conversed. Possessed of some wit, and a smattering of all kinds of learning, and even deeply
                        versed in intellectual science and moral Philosophy, he appeared to advantage in conversation.
                        The elements of popularity were abundant in him. He was emphatically one of the people. Soon
                        after he arrived, one of the sovereigns from the country called at his room when he left he told
                        his neighbor, "That Simpson was the man, for he was not too proud to were satenet
                        pants." The greatest  artlessness and simplicity,
                        with the appearance of great humility were manifest in his deportment.
                    His pulpit ministrations was another source of his great popularity with the masses. A ready
                        utterance in a musical and attractive voice, vividness of fancy, aptness of illustration, and
                        great fervency and glow of feeling, captivated his audience which were always tremendous, when
                        it was known that he was going to preach. His sermons were mostly descriptive. It was seldom
                        that he attempted an argumentative discourse. He was a man of enterprise. Never satisfied with
                        present attainments, he was always revoling or evolving, some plan or scheme for the advancement
                        of the interests of the College the church, his friends, and last though not least, of himself.
                        Few men possess greater tact for managing others, and succeeding in his schemes. He kept himself
                        thoroughly posted in regard to the character of those about him, and their movements. All the
                        gossip of the town and the private affairs of the families and individuals of the neighborhood,
                        he managed to have reported to him immediately and he was strongly suspected of employing a
                        system of espionage not only over the students but over the citizens of 
                            Greencastle
                         and the Preachers of the Conference.
                    He was a good manager of the boys in the College, making the best students his warm personal
                        friends, he used them in gaining information of the conduct of the rest. In disguise he
                        frequently visited suspected places, and unknown to the boys, he was sometimes with them in
                        their sprees, and the next day they were very much astonished as the Doctor would tell them all
                        that they had done. Sometimes after having taken round with the boys for an hour or two, he
                        would suddenly throw off the disguise and "Say well Boys we have had a fine time
                        tonight—it is about time to retire now." They could scarely believe their
                        own eyes, when they would take to there scrapers in double quic time. Many a night the Doctor
                        was out nearly all night. He employed, Charles G. Downey and John Wheeler as his assistants, in
                        learning the practices of the boys, so that during his administration there prevailed an
                        impression among the students, "that it was no use to try to keep any thing secret.
                        That the president would find it out in spite of them" Some of them declaring, that
                        they believed, "Old Doc" was omni-present." Yet so kind and familiar
                        was he that all the boys loved him.
                    Yet he had his faults. One of which was vindictiveness. He was never known to concileate an
                        enemy; but it was a  war of extermination. He was remarkably
                        successful in throwing things in the way of those he did not like; and this was done secretly,
                        the hand that gave the blow was always concealed. Indeed, secrecy was a part of his character,
                        which he never denied, but said that it prevented opposition. Hence he often carried measures by
                        surprise. He was a great admirer of Loyola and the system of Jesuits, speaking of them in the
                        highest terms as well calculated to effect the objects designed. So far as secrecy and espionage
                        is concerned, he made them his patern. His motto was that all men were governed by self
                        interest, and that they could be led to any measures, if they could be made to believe that
                        their interests would be promoted by them.
                    While he would do much for his friends, while he could use them he was never known to adhere to a
                        sinking friend to his own detriment. He had a strong predilection for John Wheeler. He educated
                        him, and found him a place in the University by blending the Preparatory and Collegiate
                        Departments, and thus dividing the Professorships. Thus also he divided the Professorship of
                        Mathematics to give Downey a place, and it is proper to say that they both were sensible of
                        their obligations and repaid them with faithful service. Both these men were proteges of the
                        President; and the latter, out of over zeal for the Doctor commenced a war upon Mrs. Larrabee27 and her school, which finally involed the Doctor in an unpleasant
                        controversy, and led to his soliciting the post of editor of The Western Christian Advocate in
                        1848, and his resignation of the Presidency.
                    The President was not blessed with a fine exterior, or commanding presence. Rather tall stoop
                        shouldered, blue eyes, light hair, low forehead and some what retreating, and chin large and
                        prominent. When animated his appearance was interesting from the unusual brightness of his large
                        and prominent eyes.
                    He held the editorship four years, and in 1852 was elected one of the Bishops of the M. E. Church
                        at the General Conference held in 
                            Boston
                        .
                    C. Nutt. 
                     Centreville
                   Nov. 6th 1856.
                
            
               
                  27 Mrs. Harriett Larrabee, wife of Professor William C. Larrabee, started
                        the "
                            Greencastle
                         Female Collegiate Seminary and opened its classes in her home [Rosabower], in
                        1844… . The seminary was a ranking institution of its day." Rev. Worth M.
                        Tippy, "Rosabower and Mrs. Larrabee's 
                            Greencastle
                         Female Collegiate Seminary," DePauw Alumnus (
                            Greencastle
                        , Indiana, April, 1948), 2–3.
            
         
         
         
            Smithson College Circular, 1871
            Edited by Donald F. Carmony
            Contributed by Helen Lennox Tidrick
            Smithson College, in operation at 
                        Logansport
                     from 1872 until about 1876, was one of various denominational colleges which were
                    established in Indiana during the nineteenth century. In spite of frequent and often fulsome
                    statements from sponsors and friends about their "flourishing condition," all of
                    them had major and continuing difficulties and many, like Smithson College, had only a brief
                        existence.1
            
            Named after its benefactors, Mr. and Mrs. Joshua Smithson, of 
                        Vevay
                    , Indiana, Smithson College is the only known collegiate institution ever established by
                    the Universalists in Indiana.2 Its Articles of Incorporation were recorded at 
                        Logansport
                     under date of November 3, 1869.3 Apparently 
                        Logansport
                     was selected as its location because of financial aid received from Mrs. Elizabeth
                    Pollard, widow of Philip Pollard whose family had been prominent in their attachment to and support
                    of Universalism in 
                        Logansport
                    . A site for the college was selected on a hill north of the Wabash
                    River which overlooked the town. This site is still known locally as College Hill.
            Smithson College opened January 2, 1872.4 The depression which began the ensuing
                    year doubtless contributed much to the difficulty of maintaining the new institution. About the time
                    it ended a contemporary historian wrote: "Although the number of students in attendance has
                    at no 
                  
                     1 For concise information about Smithson College by a contemporary
                            historian see Thomas B. Helm, History of 
                                    Cass County
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1878), 18; also his History of 
                                    Cass County
                                , Indiana… (
                                Chicago
                            , 1886), I, 379–380. A more comprehensive account, entitled
                            "Smithson College," which included various documents and related items,
                            was written in 1948 by Helen Lennox Tidrick as a term paper at Butler University.
                            Acknowledgement is hereby given to Mrs. Tidrick for her generosity in making the circular
                            available for publication.
                  
                     2 For a general sketch of Universalism in Indiana see Rev. Elmo Arnold
                            Robinson, "Universalism in Indiana," Indiana Magazine of
                                History, XIII (1917), 1–19, 157–165.
                  
                     3 These Articles were recorded in the county recorder's
                            office on this date, according to Miscellaneous Records, No. 2, p. 339, as
                            preserved in the 
                                Cass County
                             Courthouse at 
                                Logansport
                            .
                  
                     4 Helm, History of 
                                    Cass County
                                , Indiana (1878), 18; 
                        
                                    Logansport
                                 Weekly Journal, December 30, 1871.
               
                     time been large, the instruction imparted to those who partook
                    of its principles has, as a rule, been most thorough and complete."5
            
            The document which follows is a circular which was presumably used to solicit students and to convey
                    information about the college to prospective patrons. The curriculum afforded students more
                    individual choice than in some contemporary institutions. Although the Universalists were heterodox
                    in their theology, the circular indicates that students were required to conform to conservative
                    traditions and mores.
            The college was in advance of the times in its vigorous affirmation of coeducation. In fact, if equal
                    opportunity regardless of sex also applied to the faculty so that the Lady Principal actually
                    received "equal rank and pay with others,"6 Smithson College
                    was also in advance of present day practice among Indiana colleges and universities.
            
               
                  5 Helm, History of 
                                Cass County
                            , Indiana (1878), 18.
               
                  6 Quoted from the circular, page 75 following.
            
            
            CIRCULAR of Smithson College
            
                    LOGANSPORT, IND.
                
            Opened January 2nd, 1872
            INDIANAPOLIS:
            Press of Braden & Burford, Stationers. 1871
            CALENDAR.
            
               FIRST TERM begins January 2d, 1872.
               MIDDLE OF TERM, February 10th.
               SECOND TERM begins Tuesday April 3d, 1872.
               MIDDLE OF TERM, May 10th.
               Each Term, thirteen weeks.
            
            SECOND YEAR begins first Thursday of September, 1872.
            To close the first year as early as possible, there will be no intermission of terms.
            
            
                    BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
                
            
               Hon. HERVEY CRAVEN, Pendleton.
               
               Rev. W. W. CURRY, 
                     
                                Terre Haute
                            .
               
               WM. WILSON, 
                     
                                Logansport
                            .
               
               BEN H. SMITH, 
                     
                                Logansport
                            .
               
               NOAH S. La RISE, 
                     
                                Logansport
                            .
               
               DR. J. N. CONVERSE, Union City.
               
               JAMES HODGE, 
                     
                                Muncie
                            .
               
               JAMES HAMMOND, 
                     
                                Dublin
                            .
               
               GEORGE ROGERS, 
                     
                                Lafayette
                            .
               
            
            EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.
            
               Hon. H. CRAVEN.
               Rev. W. W. CURRY.
               BEN. H. SMITH
            
            OFFICERS OF CORPORATION.
            
               
                  President—Hon. H. CRAVEN.
               
                  Secretary—Rev. W. W. CURRY.
               
                  Treasurer—ROB'T R. REED.
            
            
                    FACULTY OF THE COLLEGE.
                
            Rev. PAUL R. KENDALL, A.M., President, Professor of Mental and Moral Philosophy.
            Mrs. CAROLINE S. KENDALL, Lady Principal, Professor of Modern Languages and
                    Literature.
            HOWARD R. BURRINGTON, A.M., Professor of Ancient Languages and Literature.
            
               *
                Professor of Mathematics.
                    *
            
            Professor of Natural Sciences. E. A. HALL, A. M.,
            Teacher Commercial Department. D. SCOTT EVANS,
            Teacher of Music and the Arts.
            Miss JULIA A. ELLIS, Matron.
            
               
                  * These vacancies will be filled as soon as possible.
            
            
            CIRCULAR LETTER.
            In entering the lists as competitors for public favor, the Trustees desire to submit a statement of
                    the advantages they have to offer, and profess an earnest desire to contribute their best endeavors
                    to assist in the education of the young, in the higher walks of learning. They do not believe that
                    Colleges of private foundation are rivals of our public schools, or ought ever to become so; and
                    will ever strive to make their institution a complement, and not a hindrance to the highest possible
                    expansion of our system of public education.
            ORIGIN.
            SMITHSON COLLEGE is erected by, and will remain under the
                    especial patronage of the Universalists of Indiana. It is named in honor of the late JOSHUA SMITHSON, of 
                        Vevay
                    , who bequeathed two-thirds of his estate in trust for the erection of such a school. To
                    this bequest his widow, Mrs. Sarah Smithson has added a donation of all her own estate, amounting to
                    several thousand dollars. Although not the largest contributors, Mr. and Mrs. Smithson were the
                    first, and hence became entitled to have their names permanently attached to the institution.
            LOCATION.
            LOGANSPORT is a city of twelve thousand inhabitants, beautifully situated at the
                    junction of Eel River with the 
                        Wabash
                    , and is rapidly increasing in population, manufacturers and wealth. On the 
                        Chicago
                     and 
                  Cincinnati, Columbus
                and 
                        Burlington
                    , and 
                        Toledo
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                     Routes of travel, seventy miles north of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , its railroad facilities are only second to those of the capital itself. It was
                    selected as the site of the School, because, in addition to its other great advantages, MRS. ELIZABETH POLLARD donated the handsome
                    sum of twenty thousand dollars, and other citizens fifteen thousand dollars to secure its location.
                    The numerous and generous subscriptions to the College, evince a local interest in its welfare,
                    which promises much for its future.
            
            GROUNDS AND BUILDINGS.
            The grounds of the School are situated on the north side of the river, within the corporate limits of
                    the city, and contain twelve acres, partly covered with forest trees. The site of the buildings is
                    one hundred and fifty feet above the river, over-looking the city, giving a prospect of the
                        Wabash valley for miles, furnishing landscape views of surpassing beauty.
                    The College building fronts south, with eastern and western entrances, and presents a perspective
                    view to the city. The ground descends from the front in a series of natural terraces, broken on the
                    western side by a deep ravine, in which breaks out a copious spring of pure water. Nature has formed
                    no more beautiful situation for such a school, and art will be called in to ornament and improve it
                    with roads, walks, gardens, fountains, and all that can refine and cultivate the students.
            The buildings designed are spacious and beautiful. No money is wasted in useless display, but every
                    care has been taken to supplement the skill of the architect by the experience of the teacher, so as
                    to produce the most perfect College edifice in the West. Its extreme length is 340 feet, and its
                    greatest depth 120 feet. Of irregular outline, its noble tower, numerous pavillions and deep
                    shadows, impart an unusual grandeur to its general appearance. On four floors the corridors extend
                    through the building, furnishing promenades 300 feet long. It is furnished with a spacious Chapel,
                    Lecture room, Academy room, Parlor, Dining Room, Library, Museum and Gymnasiums, as well as special
                    Painting, Apparatus and Recitation rooms. It is arranged to board two hundred students, in rooms of
                    large size, and with all the conveniences of a first-class hotel. It will be heated by steam,
                    lighted with gas, and supplied with water throughout. The Kitchen, Boiler, Gas and Laundry house are
                    outside the main building, and thorough in all their appointments. Fire is therefore but a remote
                    danger; but if such a contingency should occur, four spacious stairways give ready
                    egress and escape, instead of the usual single one. The central building, 144 feet long, arranged
                    for eighty boarders, is now in process of erection, and will be ready for occupancy at the opening
                    of the school, while the remainder will be pushed forward with all possible dispatch.
            
            EQUALITY OF EDUCATION.
            Believing that the happiness of the sexes requires them to live together in the companionship of
                    equals, this College opens its doors to them on the same terms. Teachers and students will take
                    equal rank, without regard to sex, and individual merit and attainment must determine the relative
                    standing. Experience has demonstrated that educating the sexes in the same schools, classes and
                    studies, is alike beneficial to intellectual culture, sound morality, and refinement of manners.
                    Care will be taken to prevent all improper familiarity, to inculcate principles of honor and purity,
                    and impress upon students that in the school they are equal as scholars. To evince the sincerity of
                    their convictions on this point, the Trustees have made the Lady Principal of the school a
                    Professor, with equal rank and pay with others.
            DISCIPLINE.
            The discipline of the College will be moral, and will be efficiently maintained. The President and
                    faculty will lodge in the building, board with the students, and have a constant parental oversight
                    of them. The Lady Principal will have especial charge of the young ladies; the domestic department
                    is presided over by a competent Matron; and the building so arranged as to secure a complete
                    separation between the two lodging apartments. The principles of the Christian religion will be
                    taught as the basis of right, but not merely sectarian dogmas. Students will be required to attend
                    church punctually, and with the President and Faculty, unless parents designate a particular place.
                    No immoral conduct, or vicious habits will knowingly be permitted; and no difficulty of management
                    is apprehended.
            STUDIES.
            The courses of study are prepared to meet the wants of the greatest number, but no intention exists
                    of lowering the standard of liberal education. The classical will be the regular course, and the
                    Academic and Philosophic are only commended to those who cannot take the other. The details of these
                    courses, cost of tuition, board, &c., are found in the following pages, and are commended to
                    careful attention. We  shall not seek the reputation of a cheap school, but a good one, while all charges are placed as
                    low as necessary expenses will permit. The President and Faculty are teachers of large experience,
                    and thoroughly qualified for their positions, and will use the utmost zeal and care to improve their
                    students, and render satisfaction to all concerned. Ample provision has been made for instruction in
                    the extra branches, such as Music and Drawing, and the instruments provided will be of the best
                    quality. In every department, both of sound learning and artistic culture, Smithson College will aim
                    to take a high rank.
            OPENING.
            The Trustees take great pleasure in saying that the progress of their building warrants them in
                    announcing the opening of the school for the first of January next Arrangements will be made for
                    suitable services for the opening of the building, the inauguration of the President and Faculty,
                    and the organization of classes, and on Thursday, January 4th, 1872, regular lessons will begin.
                    Great care will be taken to open the College on the most approved models, but such changes will
                    always be made as experience dictates, and every effort will be used to have this a high-toned,
                    efficient and successful school. They therefore come before the public with great confidence, and
                    ask the patronage of the friends of liberal education. They are assured that there is room for every
                    well organized school, and an especial mission for this. Taking front rank as an expression of the
                    liberal thought of the times, and proposing to keep pace with the progress of the age, it cannot
                    fail of success if wisely administered. We assail no other institution, and make no invidious
                    comparisons, but we appeal with great earnestness and assurance to Universalists and other liberal
                    people of Indiana, who are no longer to be satisfied with the old theology of the church, to rally
                    around this representative of religious liberality, and give it the support which will insure its
                    usefulness and power.
            For the Trustees,
            H. CRAVEN, President.
            
            W. W. CURRY, Secretary.
            
            
            COURSES OF STUDY.
            While it is the design of Smithson College to erect as high a standard of education as that of any
                    other, it is still recognized that it must also be prepared to do its share of labor in educating
                    the youth of the country for the common business of life. Hence it has arranged for the following
                    Courses of Study:
            I. ACADEMIC COURSE.
            THREE YEARS.
            PREPARATION REQUIRED.—Reading, as far as
                    McGuffy's fifth; Spelling, Writing, Geography, Intermediate; Grammar, Green's
                    Elementary; Arithmetic, to Fractions.
            FIRST YEAR.
            During this year these Studies will be continued, and pains taken to ground the students into their
                    principles, so that they shall be well prepared for an advance.
            SECOND YEAR.
            FIRST TERM.—Geography, Physical; Arithmetic, Higher;
                    Grammar, Green's Analysis; French.
            SECOND TERM.—Arithmetic, Higher completed; Grammar,
                    Green completed; Algebra, Elementary; History, 
                        United States
                    , and French.
            THIRD TERM.—Algebra, Elementary completed; History, 
                        United States
                     completed; Botany, Philosophy, and French.
            THIRD YEAR.
            FIRST TERM.—Algebra, Higher; History, 
                        England
                    ; Geometry, Philosophy, French, and German.
            SECOND TERM.—Algebra, Reviewed; Geometry,
                    Philosophy, Geology, French and German.
            THIRD TERM.—Philosophy, Rhetoric, English
                    Literature, Astronomy, Chemistry, French and German.
            II. PHILOSOPHICAL COURSE.
            TWO YEARS.
            This Course is prepared for those who have not the time and means for a regular Collegiate Course,
                    and omits all  languages but the English. It will require two
                    years, and those who complete it will be graduated as Bachelors of Philosophy.
            PREPARATION REQUIRED.—The same proficiency in
                    English Grammar, Geography, History, Arithmetic, Algebra and Geometry, as are required for the
                    College Course.
            FIRST YEAR.
            FIRST TERM.—Mathematics, Plane and Spherical
                    Trigonometry; Surveying, with Practice; Chemistry, Inorganic with Lectures; Rhetoric, Themes and
                    Declamation.
            SECOND TERM.—Mathematics, Conic Sections; Chemistry,
                    Organic with Lectures; Rhetoric, Themes and Declamation; Mineralogy, with Lectures; Geology with
                    Lectures.
            THIRD TERM.—Mathematics, Peck's Mechanics;
                    Rhetoric, Themes and Declamations; Physics, Silliman's, with Lectures; Botany,
                    Gray's; Intellectual Philosophy.
            SECOND YEAR.
            FIRST TERM.—Mathematics, Weisback's
                    Mechanics; Physics, Silliman's Optics; Rhetoric, English Literature, Themes, Reading;
                    Astronomy, Loomis; Political Economy, Perry's.
            SECOND TERM.—Physics, Philosophy of Heat; Rhetoric,
                    Themes, Forensics and Reading; Psychology, Porter's; Butler's Anology [sic]; Lectures on Mercantile Usages.
            THIRD TERM.—Rhetoric, Logic, Moral Philosophy and
                    Lectures on Christian Evidences.
            III. COLLEGE PREPARATORY.
            THREE YEARS.
            As many pupils will not have the opportunity of preparing for College at home, beyond the facilities
                    afforded in the common schools, it is proposed to provide for them a preparatory course. The same
                    proficiency will be required to enter this, as the Academic Course.
            FIRST YEAR.
            FIRST TERM.—Reading, Spelling and Writing;
                    Arithmetic, English Grammar, Latin Grammar and Reader.
            SECOND TERM.—Reading, Spelling and Writing,
                    Arithmetic, English Grammar, Latin Grammar and Reader.
            THIRD TERM.—Reading, Spelling and Writing,
                    Arithmetic, English Grammar, Latin Grammar and Reader, and History of the 
                        United States
                    .
            
            SECOND YEAR.
            FIRST TERM.—Latin, Greek, Algebra, and History of
                    the 
                        United States
                    .
            SECOND TERM.—Latin, Greek, Algebra and History of 
                        England
                    .
            THIRD TERM.—Latin, Greek, Algebra and History of 
                        England
                    .
            THIRD YEAR.
            FIRST TERM.—Latin, Greek, History of 
                        Rome
                    , Geography, comparative.
            SECOND TERM.—Latin, Greek, History of 
                        Rome
                    , and Geography, physical.
            THIRD TERM.—Latin, Greek, History of 
                        Greece
                    , and Geography, Ancient and Modern.
            IV. COLLEGE COURSE.
            FOUR YEARS.
            This Course is the regular one, and is intended to furnish a liberal education, suitable for any of
                    the learned professions. It is recommended to all students who have the opportunity of completing
                    it. The knowledge it furnishes of the ancient languages, to which the civilized nations of modern
                    times are so largely indebted for their religion, law and literature, is of incalculable value.
            PREPARATION REQUIRED.—To enter the regular College
                    Classes, the student must have pursued the requisite antecedent studies, and be prepared for
                    examination in them.
            ENGLISH.—Analytical Grammar, Higher Arithmetic, Algebra to Equations of
                    Second Degree, History of the 
                  United States, England, Rome
                and 
                        Greece
                    , Ancient and Modern Geography, 
                        Mitchell
                    's.
            LATIN.—Harkness' Grammer [sic] and Reader,
                    Three Books of Caesar's Commentaries, Four Orations of Cicero, Four Books of
                    Virgil's AEneid, Harkness' Introduction, to Latin Prose Composition to Part III.
            GREEK.—Hadley's Grammar and Harkness' Lessons, Four
                    Books of Xenophon's Anabasis, and Three Books of Homer's Iliad.
            In all cases equal preparation in equivalent books will be accepted.
            
            Freshman Year.
            FIRST.—Latin, Livy; Prose Composition; Greek, Herodotus; Prose
                    Composition; Geometry, Plane; Roman Antiquities.
            SECOND TERM.—Latin, Livy; Prose Composition;
                    Geometry, Solid; Algebra, Rhetoric, Themes and Declamations.
            THIRD TERM.—Latin, Horace; Prose Composition; Greek,
                    Thucydides; Prose Composition; Trigonometry, Plane; Rhetoric, Themes and Declamations.
            Sophomore Year.
            FIRST TERM.—Latin, Cicero De Officiis, Prose
                    Composition; Greek, Thucydides, Prose Composition; Trigonometry, Plane; Rhetoric, Themes and
                    Declamations.
            SECOND TERM.—Latin, Tacitus, Prose Composition;
                    Greek, Euripides, Prose Composition; Surveying and Navigation; Rhetoric, Themes and Declamations.
            THIRD TERM.—Latin, Juvenal; Greek, Plato; Conic
                    Sections and Analytical Geometry; Rhetoric, Themes and Declamations; Ancient 
                        Greece
                    , Lectures.
            Junior Year.
            FIRST TERM.—Geometry, Descriptive; English
                    Literature; Physics; Chemistry, with Lectures; German.
            SECOND TERM.—Differential Calculus; Physics, with
                    Lectures; Chemistry, with lectures; Pshycology [sic]; German.
            THIRD TERM.—Integral Calculus; Physics, with
                    Lectures; Pshycology [sic]; Botany, with Lectures; German.
            Senior Year.
            FIRST TERM.—Mineralogy, with Lectures; Political
                    Economy, Butler's Analogy, English Literature and French.
            SECOND TERM.—Geology, Astronomy, Logic, Intellectual
                    Philosophy and French.
            THIRD TERM.—Intellectual Philosophy, Moral
                    Philosophy, Evidences of Christianity, with Lectures; and French.
            V. COMMERCIAL COURSE.
            ONE YEAR.
            A supplemental course for Commercial Instruction will be so arranged as to afford a complete
                    preparation for any kind of practical business. It will not interfere with the regular course of
                    studies, but ample time will be afforded for instruction  and
                    practice. Studies in this course will be divided into three terms for each year, so as to conform to
                    regular courses, and instruction will include both theory and practice. Students will also be
                    received in this department, who do not pursue other studies, and thoroughly instructed in a four
                    months' course.
            INITIATORY DEPARTMENT.
            The course of instruction in this department includes the minor principles of Account Current, Rapid
                    Business Penmanship, Book Keeping and Business customs. Arithmetic, Fractions and Per Centage
                    receive particular attention.
            THEORETICAL DEPARTMENT.
            Here the student is made familiar with the different processes of opening, conducting and closing
                    Stock and Partnership Books, making a statement and admitting a third partner, constructing sets
                    from memoranda, the same as Actual Business, all the various books of original entry, viz: Journal,
                    Day Book, Cash Book, Sales Book, Domestic and Foreign Invoice Books, Inventory Book and Bill Book.
            The whole theory of the Science of Double Entry Book-keeping is comprised in this department,
                    together with all the rules for Journalizing, Posting, Checking, taking off Trial Balances, making
                    out Balance Sheets, closing the Ledger, making out business Papers, &c., with a routine of
                    the transactions which are to be found in the most extensive busines [sic] houses.
            The subjects which receive attention in Arithmetic, include Commission, Insurance, Exchange, Stock,
                    Investment, Discounting Notes, Interest, both simple and compound, together with short and practical
                    methods for computing Interest, Profit and Loss, &c.
            PRACTICAL DEPARTMENT.
            This department is designed to furnish the student Practical Experience in Business, as occurring in
                    the daily experience of Bankers, Brokers, Agents, Book-keepers, &c.
            This department also embraces all the higher and more complicated forms of Commercial Calculations,
                    such as Equation of Accounts Current, Account Sales, Storage Accounts, &c.
            As in the Theoretical Department, Business Penmanship is made a specialty.
            
            The student is instructed in detecting Counterfeits, the Properties of Promissory Notes,
                    Indorsements, Acceptances, Certificates, &c.
            In this department the student is instructed in the process of changing Single to Double
                        Entry; from Stock to Partnership Books; after which the
                    student is instructed in the great saving mode of keeping book by using the Six
                    and Ten Column Journal. Its advantages are.
            1st. It is easy to understand.
            2d. It saves time and space.
            
            3d. It embraces the principles of four books in one.
            
            4th. Shows monthly totals of the principal accounts.
            
            5th. Gives additional security of the correctness of the Ledger.
            
            BANKING.
            The business of banks in general, and transactions such as generally occur at Banking Institutions in
                    the country, will be introduced, the principal books employed, such as Debit Journal, Credit
                    Journal, General Ledger, Deposit Ledger, Discount Ledger, Collection Register, Domestic Tickler,
                    Foreign Tickler and Passed Collections, with forms of Cash Book, Stock Ledger, Transfer Book,
                    Statement Book, etc. Also, the most important forms of Bank Paper.
            ART DEPARTMENT.
            This includes off-hand Flourishing, Pen Drawing, Ornamental Lettering, Card Marking, Copying, and
                    Ladies' Italian Hand-Writing.
            In this department special attention will be given to those who wish to become teachers in plain,
                    practical and ornamental Pen Drawing, including line shade, slope and stiple work. Special attention
                    will be given to the elementary principles of Writing, besides the best method of instructing
                    classes, teaching schools, etc.
            There will be explanations, black-board illustrations and frequent examinations in all that pertains
                    to the elements and principles of Writing, Flourishing, and all kinds of Pen Drawing.
            Tuition in this course will be twelve dollars per term.
            To those who pursue a Commercial Course alone, thirty-five dollars the course.
            For special branches special rates will be made on application.
            
            EXTRA STUDIES.
            Ample provision has been made for instruction in the departments of Music and the Arts. Singing by
                    the pupils under competent instructors will be a daily exercise; and both Vocal and Instrumental
                    Music will be taught in classes. Drawing, Painting, Wax Work, and other ornamental branches will be
                    taught by competent instructors. The object will be to give every facility for the most
                    accomplished, as well as the most substantial education. As these branches will be optional, they
                    will not be allowed to trespass on the regular studies.
            EXPENSES.
            The rates of charges adopted in the following tables, are based on a very careful estimate of
                    expenditures; and it is held as a sound principle, that the former should equal the latter. No good
                    can come of affecting a cheapness whose inevitable result is debt, embarrassment and inefficiency.
                    Nor is it wise to put down low rates of board and tuition in tables, and then largely increase them
                    by extra charges. Our statements, therefore, will give the parent the total cost, and will enable
                    the School to meet its obligations.
            BOARD will be five dollars per week. This will include room rent, table expenses,
                    light, fuel and washing. This will be sixty-five dollars for each term of thirteen weeks, and one
                    hundred and ninety-five dollars per year. Students can remain in the institution during the
                    vacations between terms at the same rates; but not during the annual vacation, as the teachers and
                    help will then be off duty, and the buildings undergo renovation. Two students will occupy one room,
                    and will be assigned by the President. Each room will be furnished with a bedstead, mattrass [stc], quilt, blanket and pillows, a bureau, washstand and its furniture, writing
                    table and three chairs. Students must furnish their own carpets, sheets, pillow cases, towels,
                    napkins and soap. Carpets furnished, of any quality desired at an annual charge of one third their
                    cost.
            No meals furnished away from the common tables, ro [sic] out of the regular hours,
                    except at the discretion of the President and upon special charges, except in cases of sickness.
            Twelve average pieces are allowed in wash each week. More than this are charged at the rate of
                    seventy-five cents per dozen. Sheets, pillow cases, towels and napkins are not counted.
            
            The President, Professors and all paid teachers, are required to live in the building, and their
                    board will be furnished them at the lowest possible rate.
            TUITION.
            
               
                  College Course, per term,
                  $12,00
               
               
                  Each other course, per term,
                  10,00
               
               
                  Each Modern Language, per term,
                  8,00
               
               
                  Vocal Music, special instruction in classes of four, per term,
                  10,00
               
               
                  Instrumental Music, with use of instrument,
                  16,00
               
               
                  Pencil Drawing and Water Color Painting, each, per term,
                  7,00
               
               
                  Crayon Drawing, 
                                India
                             Ink, and Monochromatic, each, per term,
                  8,00
               
               
                  Oil Painting,
                  12,00
               
               
                  Wax Work,
                  10,00
               
            
            STUDENT'S OUTFIT.
            There should be a full supply of strong and comfortable clothing, suitable to the season. It may
                    conform to the means of the family; but extravagance and unnecessary finery, and mere display should
                    be avoided. Utility, not ornament, should be the purpose. Each student should have an umbrella,
                    overshoes, and thick shawl or overcoat, at least three sheets, six towels, four napkins, one
                    blanket, and a few pieces of woolen, muslin and old linen, brushes, combs, toilet soap, pins,
                    needles, thread and buttons.
            All articles should be plainly marked with the full name, to prevent mistakes and loss.
            A few pictures and miscellaneous books will add to the cheerfulness of the room; but all such will be
                    subject to the inspection and approval of the President.
            ANNUAL COST.
            The necessary annual expenses will be, for the first year of the Academic course, and each year of
                    the Philosophical and Preparatory courses: Board, $195,00; Tuition, $30,00;
                    Incidentals, $4,50; Total, $229,50. For the first and second years of the
                    College course, six dollars more for tuition, $235,50. The second year of the Academic,
                    and the third  and fourth of the Collegiate courses, add each one
                    foreign language, $24,00; the first, $253,50, and the other two,
                    $259,50. The third year of the Academic adds another language, making $277,50.
                    The ornamental branches are optional, and can be calculated from the table.
            GENERAL REMARKS.
            Especial attention is called to the following general rules:
            1. One half the expense of each term must be paid in advance, and the other half at the middle of the
                    term. This rule must be strictly enforced to enable the institution to meet its
                    expenses. No delay can be permitted, and no student enrolled until payment is made.
            2. No deduction from tuition on account of absence; nor from board, except for absence of more than
                    two weeks on account of sickness, or written leave of the President.
            3. Students received at any time during the term, and charged proportionately for the residue.
            4. Accounts opened with each student, money paid in is at once credited, and on settlement, promptly
                    refunded when in excess.
            5. No more money should be supplied to students than their necessities require; and parents should
                    demand a strict and detailed report of expenditures.
            6. All money furnished for the use of students should be paid to the President, and drawn as needed
                    on the order of the student. This will serve as a check on indiscretion, and teach orderly business
                    habits.
            GENERAL REGULATIONS.
            1. The Faculty, Instructors and Students are expected at all times to remember that they are ladies
                    and gentlemen, and to conform to the usages of good society in their intercourse with each other, as
                    well as with those without the institution.
            2. The association of young men and young women in the same classes and exercises, appeals powerfully
                    and constantly to a healthful spirit of emulation, and is greatly promotive of a thorough
                    scholarship. The average tone of scholarship is decidedly higher in those classes where both sexes
                    are well represented, than in a class composed exclusively either of gentlemen or ladies. In the
                    matter of rhetorical or oratorical exercises, this result is brilliantly obvious.
            
            3. The daily association of young ladies and gentlemen, in the presence of their teachers, exerts a
                    most salutary effect upon the manners of both; tending largely to render the young
                    men courteous, self-respectful, refined and manly, and the young women modest, decorous, graceful
                    and womanly. A young lady educated thus, naturally, is likely to become self-poised and to develop a
                    symmetry and completeness of intellectual stature rarely attainable under less favorable
                    circumstances.
            4. Wholesome restraints are necessary, certainly, in a seminary for both ladies and gentlemen; but
                    such restraints are easily enforced when not self-imposed, in an institution properly constructed
                    and arranged for two departments. There is with most young men and young women,
                    when connected with a seminary of learning, a self-respect and pride of character which alone go
                    further than parental vigilance in conserving their social respectability and safety. Order once
                    established, the internal conservative forces of such an institution renders gross disorder well
                    nigh impossible, and the work of government correspondingly easy.
            MERIT AND DEMERIT.
            MERIT.—The scale of merit ranges from 50 to 100. Below 60 is inferior; from 70 to 80, fair
                    to good; from 80 to 90, superior; above 90, very superior.
            DEMERIT.—Each demerit mark diminishes deportment 5; 5 marks require an explanation; 12,
                    public reproof; and 20, dismission.
            Absences, deficiencies, improprieties and disorders are marked. The last measure of discipline will
                    be expulsion. A public report of the student's standing is read during the term, and at the
                    close furnished in a permanent form to each. Parents are requested to examine this
                        report.
            Parents and guardians are requested to communicate freely by letter, and are earnestly advised not to
                    allow their children or wards to be absent, visiting at home or elsewhere, or to leave the School
                    until after the Examination, except where there is manifest necessity.
            SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS.
            1. Report to President on arrival.
            2. Strict observance of Study Hours.
            
            3. Attendance on all the general exercises of the School.
            4. Punctuality in the performance of all duties.
            5. Ready, cheerful obedience and respect to teachers.
            6. Order and neatness in rooms.
            7. Cleanliness and neatness of person and apparel.
            8. Punctuality, propriety and decorum at table.
            9. Proper observance of the Sabbath.
            10. Attendance at Sabbath School, and one church service each Sabbath.
            STRICT PROHIBITIONS.
            1. Use of Ardent Spirits.
            2. Use of Tobacco in any form.
            3. Profane or obscene language.
            4. Card-playing or other games of chance.
            5. Unnecessary noise in the building at any time.
            6. Unseemly or boisterous noise at any time or place.
            7. Visiting rooms of others in Study Hours.
            8. Visiting between the sexes without permission.
            9. Leaving premises except at prescribed hours.
            10. Visiting hotels or dram-shops.
            11. Marking, cutting, or otherwise marring property of the Institution.
            12. Communicating from windows during Study Hours.
            13. Loud talking, laughing, or other disturbance in the yards during Study Hours.
            14. Lounging in the stores, offices, or streets of the city. Violations of the above will subject the
                    offender to a reduction in his standing, or to a severer penalty.
            Any student necessarily violating any requirement or prohibition, must, at his earliest opportunity,
                    report the same to the President.
            Students will be held strictly responsible for noise or damage in their respective rooms.
            BY-LAWS OF THE CORPORATION.
            RULE 17. There shall be elected a President of the Faculty of Smithson College, who shall have charge
                    of the School in all of its departments, and the oversight of its buildings, properties and
                    employees, and shall be held responsible  for its proper
                    management. He shall be Professor of Mental and Moral Philosophy.
            RULE 18. There shall also be elected a corps of Professors for the several departments, and such
                    Assistant Teachers as may be necessary, who shall be assistants to the President, and give
                    instruction in such branches as may be assigned them by him, or voted by the Trustees.
            RULE 19. The President, Professors and Teachers so elected, shall hold their places during good
                    behavior, and the pleasure of the Board; provided, that three month's
                    notice shall be given on either part, of a proposed change.
            RULE 20. One of the Professors shall be the Lady Principal, and shall have the immediate supervision
                    of the lady students.
            RULE 21. There shall be chosen a Matron, to have charge of the domestic affairs of the school, and
                    the direction of all employed in her department; and such other male and female assistants as may be
                    necessary to perform the duties of the institution.
            RULE 22. All purchases for the school, and all expenditures in the Boarding department, not otherwise
                    ordered by the trustees, shall be made by the President, or under his express direction; and all
                    collections from the students will be made by him. He shall keep accurate and sufficient accounts,
                    in proper books, and shall make reports to and exchange vouchers with the Treasurer, at leat [sic] once each week during the school terms.
            RULE 23. The President is authorized to procure and furnish to Students, on account of the School, at
                    current rates, all books and stationery required by them for their own use.
            RULE 24. The President, Professors and Teachers will be paid fixed salaries, supplied with suitable
                    lodging rooms in the building, plainly furnished, and charged a weekly rate for board. The payment
                    and board of all other employees will be as per agreement.
            RULE 25. The Professors shall take rank in the order of seniority of service in this institution;
                    each shall take charge of the institution in the order of his rank, in the absence of his senior,
                    and in the event of the death, or other cause of vacancy in the Presidency, the senior Professor
                    shall assume his duties, and receive his salary, until the trustees shall otherwise provide.
         
         
         
            Genealogy
            Queries
            Queries are limited to Indiana families and to fifty words, exclusive of name and address. Reply
                    directly to querist. Send queries to Miss Dorothy Riker, Indiana Historical Bureau, 
                        Indianapolis
                     4. The committee reserves the right to edit queries but cannot engage in
                    correspondence.
            
                    Henry Hilt m. Harriet Shalk (When? Where?). Twelve chn.; 1st born 1794, last 1832. Fourth ch.,
                        Susanna Hilt, b. 1801, Ind.; m. Henry Swank, b. ca. 1800, 
                            Ohio
                         and killed 1873, 
                            Lafayette
                        , Ind. Want ancy. of Henry Hilt, Harriet Shalk, Henry Swank. Will exchange data.
                        Have pic. of Hilt family reunion, 1915, Columbian Park, 
                            Lafayette
                        . —Mrs. Harry D. Fugate, 604 E. Boone St., 
                            Frankfort
                        , Ind.
                    Ancy. of Hannah Ward, b. Apr. 1795, Mass.; m. 1822, Jonathan Leffingwell. They came to 
                            Fayette
                         Co., Ind., ca. 1830. Want ancy. of Temperance Avery, b. ca. 1770, mother of
                        Jonathan Leffingwell. Also want ancy. of Sarah Lawrence, mother of Rev. Minor Thomas, Fayette
                        Co., Ind., Baptist minister, 1820–1830. —Miss Elizabeth Lynch, 2867 Sunset
                        Place, 
                            Los Angeles
                         5, Calif.
                    Want ancestors, parents, & relatives of Elsie Hancock, b. 5–14–1829
                        (lived before marriage around Monon, White Co., Ind.); d. 8–8–1890, 
                            Wabash
                         Co., Ind. She m. David L. Tait (son of Stewart S. & Sarah Tait) &
                        had: Eliza, Harriet, Sarah (m. McConn), Stewart Tait. Elsie Hancock's bros. &
                        sis.: Selby, John, George, Frank, Eliza (m. Powell), Maria (m. 1st, Comstock, 2nd,
                        Cooper).—Mrs. Doris Tait White Floyd, 1025 
                            Goshen
                         Ave., 
                            Elkhart
                        , Ind.
                    Want 
                            Indiana county
                         in which George Frederick Ford was born 3–26–1869. Want
                        parents & any relatives to whom I could write. He was a brickmason in 
                            Chicago
                         by 1894; so may have been born in a nearby Ind. county.—James J. Ford,
                        6210 Jackman Rd., 
                            Toledo
                         12, 
                            Ohio
                        .
                    Want data on & positive location of Daniel McGlothlin (McLaughlin, etc.) said to have
                        died 8–3–1879, 
                            Warrick
                         Co., Ind., Pigeon Twp. Should be in 1880 Mortality Schedules but is not. Did he die
                        before 1879? Want location of Daniel Johnson & his mother Ann
                        ("Nancy"), supposed to have been in Perry Co., Ind., Anderson Twp.,
                        1880–1890.—Mrs. Ralph Meadows, P.O. Box 86, 
                            Newburgh
                        , Ind.
                    Want location (for census search) of Daniel Lawrence (have searched 1850 
                            Delaware
                         Co., Ind. census); of John Meroney (have searched 1850 
                            Delaware
                         Co.; 1860 
                            Boone
                         Co., Sugar Creek Twp.; 1850–1860 Clinton Co., Perry Twp.). Also want
                        William Lewis (is not in 1860 
                            Boone
                         Co., Sugar Creek Twp.). Does anyone know of people of these names living in
                        locations nearby to the above places?—Franklin M. Wright, Dept. of Hist.,
                        Southwestern at 
                     Memphis, Memphis
                   12, Tenn.
                    Parents of Jane Montgomery, b. 1738, Va.; d. 1815, bur. Millersburg, Ky.; m. 1757, James
                        Huddleston. Their dau., Jane Huddleston, b. 1766, 
                            Lancaster
                         Co., Pa.; m. Andrew Johnston (want parents), b. 3–20–1768,
                        Va.; d. 1827, bur. Millersburg, Ky. Their son, John Johnston, b.
                        6–24–1801, Harrison Co., Ky.; m. 11–3–1821,
                        Cynthiana, Ky., Nancy Stuart (want parents & grandparents), b.
                        5–24–1802, Harrison Co., Ky. — Mrs. Fairy Harding Miner, 8 W.
                        Boone St., 
                            Frankfort
                        , Ind.
                    
                    Want (1) ancestors of James Sherwood & John Naylor who platted 
                            Greensboro
                         (Blooming Grove), Ind., 1816. (2) Parents of Nancy Cain, b.
                        8–12–1783, N.C.; m. 1807, Richard Beeson; to 
                            Ohio
                         1808; to 
                            Randolph
                         Co., Ind., 1817; to Allen Co., Ind., 1824. (3) Data on William Launder, m.
                        1–15–1835, Muskingum Co., O., Margaret McLoy; to 
                            Wabash
                         Co., Ind., 1852. (4) Data on William Wiggins, m. 6–3–1813,
                        Batavia, O., Peggy McFarland; to 
                            Franklin
                         Co., Ind., ca. 1814. (5) Data on Phebe Winchell, b.
                        9–23–1792; m. 1814, N.Y., Samuel Jenks; to 
                            Franklin
                         Co., Ind., 1814. —Mr. Cecil Beeson, P.O. Box 1, 
                            Hartford
                         City, Ind.
                    Want documentary proof that Jeremiah Payne (1769–1861), a pioneer of Clark & 
                            Washington
                         Cos., Ind., was son of Samuel & Mary (Stillwell) Payne who left Nelson Co.,
                        Ky., in 1804; or proof that Jeremiah Payne was brother of Elias Payne, killed 1812, Scott Co.,
                        Ind., in Pigeon Roost Massacre. Have proof that Elias was son of Samuel Payne. —Mrs.
                        Sumner Hayward, 224 Richards Rd., Ridgewood, N.J.
                    Want Rev. sold. ancestor (with proofs for DAR) for any of the following: (1) William Dorrell, b.
                        1775, Md. or Del.; d. 6–30–1853, 
                            Ohio
                         Co., Ind.; (prob. son of Joseph Dorrell of Clermont Co., O.); m. June 1800 (not in
                        Clermont Co., poss. 
                            Hamilton
                         Co., O.?) Mary Light, b. 1–19–1785, prob. 
                            Lancaster
                         Co., Pa. (part which later became 
                            Lebanon
                         Co. or even Dauphin Co.); dau. of Jacob & Catharine Light (Jacob in
                        "Rev. Sold. Bur. in 
                            Ohio
                        " but no proofs acceptable to DAR). (2) Their son Jacob Dorrell, b.
                        7–5–1801, 
                            New Richmond
                        , Clermont Co., O.; d. 2–1–1881, Johnson Co., Ind.; m.
                        12–10–1822, 
                            Dearborn
                         Co., Ind., Mary ("Polly") Alexander, b.
                        6–4–1804, prob. Pa.; dau. of John & Elizabeth (Jones) Alexander.
                        Should be a Rev. sold. father for John Alexander, b. 3–24–1780. Pa.; d.
                        4–5–1855, Johnson Co., Ind., Pleasant Twp., and for Elizabeth Jones, b.
                        12–3–1780, Pa.; d. 12–13–1872, Johnson Co., Ind.;
                        dau. of Jubal & Jane (Sinter? Suiter?) Jones. —Mrs. Carl J. Winkler, Sr.,
                        R.R. 2, Thorntown, Ind.
                    Parents of Joseph Vann, b. ca. 1809, Ky. (Henderson Co.?) and wife Elizabeth Rhodes (?), b. ca.
                        1815, Ky. They were in 1850 Cens., 
                            Warrick
                         Co., Ind., 
                            Ohio
                         Twp., but not in 1880. Joseph Vann had bros.: William, John, & David.
                        Elizabeth had bros.: Solomon, George, Matt, & Bradford.—Miss Byrdee Needham,
                        Loup City, Nebr.
                    Parents of Felix R. Donnelly, d. 
                            Monticello
                        , White Co., Ind., after 1880; parents both b. Md. In what Co. in 
                            Ohio
                         did Felix mar. Rebecca Moreland? They were still in 
                            Ohio
                         in 1852. By 1860 in 
                            Jasper
                         Co., Ind. Who were Rebecca Moreland's parents? Rebecca b. 
                            Ohio
                        , her father in Md., her mother in Va.—Mrs. Claude Brown, Jr., 184 Tyler
                        St., 
                            Twin Falls
                        , 
                            Idaho
                        .
                    John and Sarah (Thatcher) Talkington of Indiana Co., Pa., had 8 sons and 2 daus. Sons came to
                        Butler Co., 
                            Ohio
                        , bet. 1800 and 1820, and later to 
                            Decatur
                         Co., Ind. Want to know whom girls married and names and addresses of any
                        descendants.—Edgar Talkington, West-port, Ind.
                
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Readings in Indiana History. Compiled by Gayle Thorn-brough and Dorothy Riker.
                    Volume XXXVI, Indiana Historical Collections. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Bureau, 1956. Pp. xii, 625. Index. Cloth, $4.50;
                    paperbound, $2.00.)
            The edition of Readings in Indiana History published by Indiana University in 1914
                    under the guidance of a committee of the History Section of the Indiana State Teachers Association
                    has long been out of print. The stated purpose of the compilers of the volume under review is to
                    replace the 1914 edition with a work that includes much of what was considered good in the old Readings, to aim at no particular level of reader, and to fill in gaps in Indiana
                    history as far as available material permits. According to the editors, "the compilation of
                    such a work is difficult because there is not in print a good one-volume history of Indiana which
                    can be read in conjunction with the Readings" (p. v).
            A reviewer is tempted to make a comparison between the two editions.
            The earlier volume contained materials which the committee felt were best adapted to "pupils
                    of the grammar grades and the high school." This material was mostly primary source
                    material which advanced students have found useful as well. The work included extremely helpful maps
                    and illustrations. In addition, its organization was enhanced by brief but sharp historical
                    introductions to each period or topic. Its coverage did not extend beyond 1876 and, being primarily
                    concerned with the period before the Civil War, it proved to be a good companion to Logan
                    Esarey's History of Indiana From the Earliest Explorations to 1850 which
                    appeared in 1915.
            The editors of the recent edition of the Readings have eliminated maps and
                    illustrations and thinned the historical introductions. They have used some of the same sources,
                    added considerably more material, and broadened the definition of "readings" by a
                    freer inclusion of secondary articles which serve to close selected gaps. The
                    paucity of material related to the period from 1876 to the present is unfortunate.  Twenty-eight chapters are devoted to the period through 1876. The four
                    chapters which follow would seem to belong to a second volume.
            Some readers will welcome the excellent material that has been added, especially that dealing with
                    the development of industry. However, other readers will regret the elimination of good material on
                    the Indians of Indiana. This problem is minimized by the fact that both editions will be found in
                    most libraries in the state, making available a broader selection of readings than hitherto existed
                    in print.
            It is readily admitted that the selection of material for a one-volume "readings"
                    is difficult in the absence of a correlative history. The sources selected for both editions,
                    however relate primarily to the period before 1865. It seems to this reviewer that Esarey's
                    above-mentioned history remains a valuable companion on a higher level of learning. The more
                    scholarly style of the new Readings tends to eliminate it as a
                    "primer." Further, if a one-volume history of Indiana, from its beginnings to the
                    present, should appear in the near future, the present edition will not be an adequate companion
                    without considerable revision to balance the historical coverage.
            Aside from the above observations, the 1956 edition of the Readings is a valuable
                    contribution to the field of Hoosier history and should stimulate further research in that area.
            John Sherman Long 
                  
                            Wabash
                         College
            
         
         
            
               The American Lyceum: Town Meeting of the Mind. By Carl Bode. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Oxford
                     University Press, 1956. Pp. xii, 275. Frontispiece, bibliographical note, and index.
                    $5.00.)
            This gap-filling monograph is like its subject in being an incitement to learning, fitted and aimed
                    for a wide audience. Written from the vantage point of 
                        Washington
                     sources, it maintains a national perspective, and by regional organization suggests
                    local variations. Its outstanding chapters, however, deal topically with lyceum economics and
                    connections with libraries and literature. There are sharp sketches of a score of "typical
                    leaders."
            Bode elaborates the accepted view that lyceums shifted emphasis from the mutual education of young
                    men in practical  science to random lectures on general culture
                    for public entertainment. Self-improvement and social uplift remained constants. We can still say
                    that Josiah Holbrook founded the lyceum movement in 1826, successfully promoted it for a decade, and
                    contributed valuable pressure for common school reform. We can still say that, except perhaps for
                    the major cities, the lyceum remained throughout the ante-bellum period the lengthened shadow of
                    Holbrook's 
                        New England
                    , always strongest in eastern 
                        Massachusetts
                    . Even in southern cities the immigrant Yankee played an important part. But the popular
                    notion that lyceums consisted of lectures only, and the general historian's habit of
                    identifying them with Holbrook only, are no longer tenable.
            Bode's background sketches could have been enriched by drawing on Dirk Struik's Yankee Science, C. A. Bennett's Manual Labor Education,
                    and other studies of "freedom's ferment." People were yearning to be as
                    free as the truth could make them, and as rich as American resources could make them. Stirred by
                    land hunger, the expanding needs of industrialism, and the evangelical movement, Americans felt a
                    need for "useful" education which existing institutions could or would not meet.
                    Consequently a number of makeshift "systems" appeared: monitorial and manual labor
                    education, mechanics' and teachers' institutes, mercantile libraries, young
                    men's associations, and lyceums. When academic and governmental research and instruction
                    developed, toward 1840, with better libraries, laboratories, buildings, funds, and personnel, these
                    supplementary stop-gaps became unnecessary. As educational reform the lyceum was an ephemeral movement. As adult education, whose main ingredient is initial stimulation, it was
                    an institution which answered a perennial need, and it has been succeeded by other
                    efforts, especially in fields not yet taught in the schools. Bode does not easily distinguish the
                    crusade from the institution.
            Beginnings are indefinite. Did the lyceum idea really cross the Atlantic in a magazine, or did it
                    develop a generation after its British counterpart, as an indigenous reflection of particular stages
                    of Protestantism and industrialism? Bode suggests both. The printed word can buttress a convert, but
                    doesn't it take a missionary person to make one? What of the personal
                    contacts with the British movement, through emigrant mechanics like Timothy Claxton, and such
                    travelers as Benjamin  Silliman (Holbrook's teacher),
                    John Griscom, William Wood, William Maclure, and possibly the Owens?
            The author's topical and sectional organization minimizes the developments within his period
                    (1826–1861), although at points (pp. 45, 185, 239, 250) he bows to the chronological
                    approach. He admits (p. 40) that 1845 is not a "solid" dividing point. A real
                    break did occur in 1837, when Holbrook joined a communitarian "lyceum village"
                    experiment at 
                  Berea, Ohio
               , and lost influence in the national movement. The lyceum had been
                    safe for the pillars of society to support: it banned religious and political sectarianism and
                    proposed to make the young man more valuable to his boss. But Holbrook's move labeled him
                    an impractical "ultraist" and the moderates followed their other interests. At the
                    same time other causes split into radical and moderate wings.
            The American lyceum seems to have correlated positively with cities and their large, mobile middle
                    class; with manu-facturing; with access to main routes; and with literacy. Negative correlations
                    appear with the frontier, slavery, Irish and German immigrants, and religious groups either
                    supporting church schools or indifferent to a trained ministry. These correlations seem to depend on
                    impressionistic use of gross statistics which conceal, for example, wilderness areas within states.
                    In the Old Northwest and the upper Northeast, did local religious, political, and economic factors
                    condition the lyceum milieu more than the frontier? The Southport (Kenosha, Wis.) lyceum, dismissed
                    as a debating society, and Maclure's 
                        New Harmony
                     Workingmen's Institute were frontier efforts. Indiana, ruled out for its
                    Hoosier crudity, was not so much sparsely settled in the thirties as late-settled in the north, and
                    inhabited by people unmoved by the lyceum's appeal for rationalist uplift. A further
                    correlation with Whigs, Congregationalists (and related groups) and their college towns might be
                    fruitful. Tables, graphs or maps must be constructed—but not necessarily published, since
                    they are presumed to bore the "popular" audience—to support
                    quantitative conclusions.
            More research is needed, on the high level of Bode and James Kelso, whose unpublished thesis,
                    "The Lyceum and the Mechanics' Institutes" (
                        Harvard
                    , 1953), fills in where Bode is weak. A life of Josiah Holbrook would illuminate the
                    first decade. David Mead's study for 
                        Ohio
                    , 1850–1870, stands  almost alone; Indiana
                    and other states need similar treatment. Since ministers and professors were most frequently
                    leaders, the roles of church and college need to be assessed. The free lance, accepted because of
                    the talent shortage, deserves attention, along with literary, historical, agricultural, and village
                    improvement societies. The definition of a lyceum, accompanying the delightful frontispiece,
                    includes debates, drama, "and the like," but the author excludes or neglects these
                    aspects. Finally, if the lyceum worked itself out of one job with the success of school reform, if
                    it aided essayists and augmented libraries, did it realize any of its other pious resolutions? The
                    propaganda nature of the handy sources makes firm conclusions difficult. How many scientists, like
                    Maria Mitchell, received some of their basic training in a lyceum? What effect did the use of visual
                    aids (e.g., Silliman's eighty square feet of paintings to illustrate a 
                        Lowell
                     lecture) have on the arts? The Associated Western Literary Society, incorporated in
                    1855, deserves more attention as the first successful booking agency.
            But an author is entitled to his own emphases. For Carl Bode's substantial contribution to
                    American studies, I would double-star his well-told story for your library.
            T. D. Seymour Bassett Earlham College
            
         
         
            
               Lincoln's Supreme Court. By David M. Silver. Volume 38, 
                        Illinois
                    
                    Studies in the Social Sciences. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1956. Pp. ix, 272. Frontispiece, appendix, bibliography, and index. Cloth,
                    $4.00; paper-bound, $3.00.)
            During his presidency Abraham Lincoln appointed five Supreme Court justices. These five, Noah H.
                    Swayne, Samuel F. Miller, David Davis, Stephen J. Field, and Salmon P. Chase, constituted one-half
                    of the Court's membership in 1865, above average in comparison with the administrations of
                    other chief executives. In this book Professor Silver ably describes the political circumstances
                    that influenced Lincoln in making his choices. The reorganization of the circuit system by the act
                    of Congress of July 15, 1862, caused the President to consider the geographical factor, and thus
                    three appointees (Swayne, Miller, and Davis) were midwesterners, while a fourth, Chief Justice
                    Chase, also came from that  section but was chosen for different
                    reasons. Lincoln did not search for men with judicial experience, and, except for Field, the new
                    members had not served on an important bench. Davis' background as an 
                        Illinois
                     circuit judge had nothing to do with his being selected. Nor was previous office
                    holding deemed essential, for only Chase had any significant qualifications in this respect. The
                    primary motive, Professor Silver concludes, was to find men with "sound views toward the
                    great political issues of the Civil War" (p. 57).
            In the opinion of many Republicans, the justices who had been appointed by Lincoln's
                    predecessors did not have sound views. Actions of the President early in the war posed serious
                    constitutional questions that might have been decided by Chief Justice Roger B. Taney and his
                    brethren in such a way as to handicap the Union effort. Lincoln's declaration of a blockade
                    of Confederate ports, challenged in the Prize Cases, was approved by the narrowest of margins (five
                    to four), and this only after nearly two years' delay in hearing and deciding those cases.
                    The three justices appointed by Lincoln before March, 1863, were in the majority, a fact which
                    explains Attorney General Edward Bates's hesitancy to risk an adverse judgment prior to
                    that time. The suspension of the privilege of habeas corpus by the executive without legislative
                    authority was attacked by Taney in Ex parte Merryman (1861). Subsequent extension
                    of the policy of arbitrary arrest and resort to martial law might well have been struck down. Other
                    measures, the Emancipation Proclamation, the income tax, conscription, and issuance of legal tender
                    notes, were imperiled by a Court thought to be unfriendly to the administration. Radicals, such as
                    John P. Hale, would have drastically remodeled that judicial body, but only the mild reform of
                    adding a tenth justice, Field, was enacted by Congress. The author labels this as
                    "packing" the Court, which might have been the objective, although he does not
                    present hard evidence to prove it.
            As it turned out, most of these questions were either determined favorably to the government or, more
                    often, evaded by the judiciary during the progress of the war. It was not until 1866 that the
                    Supreme Court in Ex parte Milligan ruled against trial of civilians by military
                    commissions in areas where the regular courts were open. Professor Silver says that this
                    "absolved" Taney. Here and at other points, however, this volume does not clearly
                    distinguish between  arbitrary arrest (suspension of the
                    privilege of habeas corpus) and military trial. The former was approved by Justice Davis in the
                    majority opinion, and the latter was disapproved. Of course the Habeas Corpus Law of March 3, 1863,
                    authorizing Lincoln's steps relative to arbitrary arrest, possibly removed some of
                    Taney's objections in the Merryman case, since Congress had now acted. Nevertheless,
                    something more than the Milligan decision was needed to "absolve" Taney.
            
               Lincoln's Supreme Court is an excellent study of the relationship of Civil
                    War politics and the Supreme Court. Valuable sources, particularly the Lincoln Papers, are utilized
                    to great advantage. The general reader, as well as the historian, will find it interesting and
                    reliable. The constitutional historian will not find an exhaustive analysis of the legal aspects of
                    many problems, but the author did not intend to write that sort of book.
            Maurice G. Baxter Indiana University
            
         
         
            
               Lincoln's Fifth Wheel: The Political History of the 
                            United States
                         Sanitary Commission. By William Quentin Maxwell. (
                        New York
                    : Longmans, Green and Company, 1956. Pp. xii, 372. Biographical notes, list of sources,
                    bibliography, and index. $5.00.)
            
               Lincoln's Fifth Wheel is still another in the avalanche of books on the
                    Civil War period now rolling off the press. These books have a ready market; for many this is their
                    main reason to be, and one immediately raises the question as to the justification for this volume.
                    The answer is that the book rests on a heretofore unused reservoir of material, and it covers a
                    well-known but badly neglected feature of the war.
            The author has plowed through the great mass of manuscripts now available on the period and found
                    every bit of material that applies to his subject. He takes great satisfaction in this, not that it
                    has netted much except the assurance that further pertinent evidence does not exist.
            The writer, perhaps unwittingly, has added his bit to the current process of rejuvenating the 
                        New England
                     tradition. He has helped line up the anti-slavery crusaders and their coadjutors for a
                    second century's vogue. His great reliance  on the
                    Olmstead manuscripts commits him. Contemporary opinion on the South and on slavery rested largely on
                    Olmstead, and his persuasions are not absent from Maxwell's book. It is only fair to say
                    that Maxwell has not sufficient material from other sources to enable him to exercise the
                    historian's right of sitting in judgment.
            In style the book is in the tradition of those who consider Parkman to be the greatest American
                    historian. It is exceptionally well written for one forged from a mass of research data rather than
                    from long experience and love of the field.
            For informative content the book is very much worth while. Through it the lover of detail can go to a
                    great battlefield and see the terrible aftermath of battle. He can also get a good idea of how
                    everyday details were handled in the army: sanitation, mess, medication, etc. Those interested in
                    the clash with politics, the impact of personalities, and the battle royal between Sanitary
                    Commission and Christian Commission will also be well rewarded.
            There are areas where one would like more information from the materials used even at the expense of
                    going beyond the scope of the book. For instance, more on the struggle to control the policies of
                    the administration might have been added, and also more on the clash of East-West sectionalism.
                    Because of the nature of the materials used, the history of the Commission as written by Maxwell
                    must of necessity be Eastern, and the author does not challenge Eastern priority. More about Frank
                    Blair would have been pertinent. Henry J. Raymond seems to act out of pattern. What is behind it? 
                        New England
                     proponents complain of the selfishness of the Pennsylvanians, and say that there is a
                    large 
                        Philadelphia
                     contingent in the affairs of the Commission. One would like to know more of the
                    political implications of this charge.
            A. W. Crandall DePauw University
            
         
         
            
               La Follette and the Rise of the Progressives in 
                            Wisconsin
                        . By Robert S. Maxwell. (
                        Madison
                    : The State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , 1956. Pp. xii, 271. Frontispiece, illustrations, notes to the text, bibliography, and
                    index. $4.50.)
            Although a relatively large number of books have been written about the 
                        Wisconsin
                     Idea, 
                        Wisconsin
                    
                    
                        Progressivism
                    ,  and Robert M. La Follette, Professor
                    Maxwell's book is a welcome addition. Its acceptance is not based upon new information but
                    upon the meticulous research and the objectivity of its presentation. The book, a revised doctoral
                    dissertation, deals with the development and results of the progressive movement in the Badger State
                    during the period 1900–1915.
            
               
                        Wisconsin
                     Progressivism was a volatile, many-sided, intra-party movement which grew out of the
                    political unrest and the economic adversities of the last decades of the nineteenth century. The
                    Progressives, generally speaking, were composed of disgruntled farmers, maladjusted industrial
                    workers, and a sprinkling of middle-class intellectuals. In 1900 
                        Wisconsin
                     was experiencing population shifts and urbanization. Two-thirds of her population, the
                    author states, were either foreign born or the children of foreign born parents.
            Like many other reformers, La Follette fought the conservative bosses in the state machine. Once in
                    power, he created the La Follette machine with La Follette as 
                        Wisconsin
                    's most powerful political boss. For several years "Fighting
                    Bob" dominated the Progressive movement in 
                        Wisconsin
                    . The split between the liberals came in 1912 when La Follette made his great blunder in
                    a speech at 
                        Philadelphia
                    . Indeed, Woodrow Wilson won a plurality in 
                        Wisconsin
                     in 1912 due, as the author shows, to the split between Roosevelt and La Follette.
            Governor La Follette began the practice of delivering his messages to the legislature in person. At
                    first not very successful in his program of reforms, he was re-elected twice and succeeded in
                    getting his program through the legislature. As revealed by Maxwell, the Progressive program
                    included greatly increased taxes upon and more regulation of the transportation companies, a more
                    equitable tax structure based on various types of property and income, changes in the policies of
                    insurance companies in the state, a veritable revolution in dairying, and civil service for state
                    employees. Such a program of centralization required the creation of many commissions. Extensive use
                    was made of the University of 
                        Wisconsin
                     faculty, especially of the staff in agriculture, economics, and sociology.
            The author points out the defects of the Badger State type of Progressivism. The initiative,
                    referendum, and recall  were not included, nor was woman
                    suffrage. There were evil by-products of La Follette's reform program, including wasteful
                    bureaucracy, excessive costs, and the University in the center of state politics.
            The author has been an objective observer and has written with a scholarly detachment which is
                    refreshing. This book is a significant addition to the large amount of literature already published
                    on the Progressive movement.
            George C. Osborn University of 
                            Florida
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               Charles Evans Hughes and American Democratic Statesmanship. By Dexter Perkins. (
                        Boston
                    : Little, Brown and Company, 1956. Pp. xxiv, 200. Bibliography and index.
                    $3.50.)
            A dozen volumes have thus far appeared in "The Library of American Biography,"
                    edited by Professor Oscar Handlin of 
                        Harvard
                    , and the present book, Dexter Perkins' Charles Evans Hughes and
                        American Democratic Statesmanship, is one of the latest in the series. The purpose of these
                    short readable volumes is to catch the interest of nonprofessional readers, and also to boil down
                    for busy students a number of more technical and lengthy biographies currently available.
                    "The Library of American Biography" has dealt with such figures as Ulysses S.
                    Grant, Elihu Root, Benjamin Franklin, Samuel F. B. Morse, Daniel Webster, William Lloyd Garrison,
                    and Woodrow Wilson. In accord with the "idea" approach to history, now so popular,
                    each biography distils out of its subject's life a connection with a basic idea in 
                        American
                     society, such as the American military tradition (Grant), the conservative tradition
                    (Root), national conservatism (Webster), or American democratic statesmanship (Hughes).
            Because of the skill of the authors and editor of this series, it is difficult to find any point of
                    criticism in the execution of the series' avowed purpose. In the case of Charles Evans Hughes and American Democratic Statesmanship, the book traces the obvious
                    phases of Hughes' public career: Hughes and 
                        New York
                     politics (1905–1910), associate justice of the Supreme Court
                    (1910–1916), the presidential campaign of 1916, the League fight (1916–1921),
                    secretary of state (1921–1925), Hughes as chief justice (1930–1944), with
                    special attention to the effort by President Franklin D. 
                    Roosevelt in 1937 to "pack" the Supreme Court. There is a brief epilogue weighing
                    Hughes' contribution to American democratic statesmanship. Each volume in the series
                    contains a short note on the sources for further reading. Such is the crystalline organization of
                    Perkins' book. The writing is smooth and tight. The estimate of the subject is judicious
                    and convincing. Perkins is notably successful in pointing out some of Hughes' flaws:
                    tendencies at difficult times to tortuous and overly legal decisions; and a foolhardy reluctance to
                    engage in political fence-mending, an obtuseness to political necessity that allowed unnecessary
                    frictions with President Theodore Roosevelt during Hughes' governorship of 
                        New York
                    , and which, in 1916, cost the austere New Yorker the presidency.
            The scrupulous fairness of Perkins' biography—its willingness to see both sides
                    of its subject—is surely one of the most successful aspects of the book, and may well
                    make it a welcome corrective to the two-volume Pulitzer prizewinning biography of Hughes published
                    in 1951 by Merlo J. Pusey, which has been criticized as too favorable to its subject. In another
                    respect, however, the new book by Perkins may prove disappointing to some readers. The volumes by
                    Pusey are hard to beat when it comes to giving a "feel" for their subject. Pusey
                    knew Hughes, for Hughes assisted Pusey in his work. Pusey records in his long and superbly written
                    biography a mass of detail, of both a personal and public nature, which a small biography simply
                    cannot relate. Perkins' book lacks the breezy accounts of cabinet meetings in the Harding
                    era, the details of 
                        New York
                     state politics of fifty years ago, and many other interesting matters included by
                    Pusey. Especially does one wish for descriptions of Hughes the man. In Perkins' book Hughes
                    for practical purposes is dead upon leaving the Supreme Court in 1944, whereas Pusey's
                    pages on Hughes in retirement (1944–1949) are among the most moving and memorable pages
                    this reviewer has read.
            This is not to criticize a brilliantly executed little book. Within its necessary confines, Dexter
                    Perkins' Charles Evans Hughes and American Democratic Statesmanship is a
                    first-rate piece, and if it lacks the richness of full-length biography, it should persuade its
                    readers to seek out the books of detail.
            Robert H. Ferrell Indiana University
            
         
         
         
            
               Franklin D. Roosevelt: The Triumph. By Frank Freidel. (
                        Boston
                    : Little, Brown and Company, 1956. Pp. 433. Illustrations, bibliographical note, notes,
                    and index. $6.00.)
            A really definitive biography of Roosevelt may have to await the uncovering of source material still
                    in hiding, but Professor Frank Freidel of 
                        Harvard
                     in his monumental undertaking has left little to be said thus far. The latest volume,
                        The Triumph, covers Roosevelt's gubernatorial career and his struggle
                    for the presidential nomination and election. Herein is reflected his genius in the management of
                    men. Like Al Smith, his predecessor as governor, his policies ran afoul of a hostile legislature.
                    But where Smith triumphed by knock-down, drag-out methods, Roosevelt reached his goal by finesse.
                    Both were effective in appealing to the people over the heads of the politicians. With the
                    presidential nomination in mind, Roosevelt had to move cautiously, since there was a militant
                    opposition to his nomination.
            The most interesting phase of the present volume to the reviewer, who was very close to the drama, is
                    Roosevelt's fight for the nomination and the dramatic break in his long friendship with Al
                    Smith. The opposition to his nomination was determined to prevent it at any cost to the Democratic
                    party. Anyone close to the drama cannot but marvel at the author's accuracy, even in minute
                    details, in telling the story.
            Roosevelt had been a valiant champion of his old chief. Against his own wishes, he had accepted the
                    gubernatorial nomination in 1928 upon Al Smith's urging. The tragic break in the relations
                    between the two men began when, without justification, Smith doubted Roosevelt's loyalty
                    when the latter carried 
                        New York
                     for governor and Smith lost it as the presidential nominee. Smith was strong in
                    character and constructive statesmanship but his fatal weakness was his extreme vanity. His chagrin,
                    however, was moderated by the belief that he would direct Roosevelt's policies in 
                        Albany
                    , for he had no doubt that his old lieutenant would act unquestioningly on his
                    recommendations. He even planned to take quarters in 
                        Albany
                    . Expecting to dominate the new regime through her, he strongly urged Roosevelt to
                    retain as advisor Mrs. Belle Moskowitz, an idolator of Smith's and a woman of undoubted
                    brilliance. Mrs. Moskowitz actually began writing Roosevelt's inaugural address and first
                    message to the  legislature. But when Roosevelt did not retain
                    her and wrote his own inaugural address and message, another blow was struck at Smith's
                    vanity.
            The break then began openly. Annoyed by the popularity of his old friend, and planning a test of
                    their popular appeal, Smith made a fight against a constitutional amendment to be submitted to the
                    people to which Roosevelt was committed and, when the amendment carried, Smith's resentment
                    flamed. The final blow came when Roosevelt failed to consult the "Happy Warrior"
                    before entering the race for the presidential nomination.
            John J. Rascob, the Republican chairman of the Democratic National Committee, by virtue of
                    Smith's election, was an ultraconservative and his bitter prejudice against Roosevelt may
                    be ascribed in part to his opposition to Roosevelt's economic views, but in large part to
                    his devotion to Smith. Dr. Freidel takes us behind the scenes when the organization determined to
                    prevent Roosevelt's nomination by hook or crook. A first plan was to nominate Owen D.
                    Young, a corporation executive, and when he refused to play, it pinned its hopes on Newton D. Baker
                    until he refused to make an open bid for the nomination. The committee then fell back on the
                    traditional plan of encouraging a flock of "favorite son" candidacies to create a
                    deadlock and make it difficult for Roosevelt to muster the necessary two-thirds vote. When this
                    promise dimmed, the committee brought pressure on Al Smith to announce his candidacy. There was
                    cruelty in this move, for the men who pressured Smith, with few exceptions, knew he could not be
                    nominated, while the victim of their strategy thought that he could. It was believed that he might
                    collect enough support to create the deadlock needed, and that with two 
                        New York
                     candidates the convention would nominate neither.
            The biographer minutely describes the pitfalls prepared by the conspirators for Roosevelt. They began
                    by demanding from him a wringing wet declaration against prohibition. If he responded it would
                    deprive him of delegates from the dry states; if he refused it might deprive him of support in the
                    wet states of the East. Convinced that it was common knowledge that he favored the repeal of the
                    Eighteenth Amendment, Roosevelt avoided the trap.
            The other trap was laid not by the Rascob people but by the reform element. This trap was in the form
                    of a demand  that Roosevelt remove Mayor James Walker, an
                    elective officer, because of disclosures of corruption in Tammany circles. The head of this element
                    was Samuel Seabury who, ironically enough, had been recommended by Roosevelt to act as inquisitor in
                    the investigation. The 
                        New York
                     press responded with hysterical enthusiasm and Seabury, pictured as a Cato, began to
                    scent the presidential nomination for himself. Since Walker was immensely popular, his removal would
                    have aligned the 
                        New York
                     organization against Roosevelt; yet failure to remove him would have lost Roosevelt the
                    support of the reform element. The biographer has missed one scene in the drama witnessed by this
                    reviewer who was with Roosevelt in the executive mansion in 
                        Albany
                     when a carload of the testimony taken by Seabury was delivered, accompanied by a short
                    letter from the investigator. Roosevelt had closed his doors to the press, and the reviewer was
                    alone with him when he read Seabury's letter with an expression of distaste. "He
                    merely drops it into my lap to embarrass me and he makes no recommendation of his own to serve his
                    own political ends," Roosevelt said. This embarrassing problem was solved when
                    Roosevelt's extraordinarily clever manager, James A. Farley, warned Walker of the
                    inevitable and prevailed upon him to tender his resignation.
            Never have a National Committee and its leaders so openly attempted to prevent a presidential
                    nomination. Professor Freidel makes no reference to a significant snubbing of Roosevelt in the
                    planning of the traditional Jackson Day banquet in 
                        Washington
                    , always attended by party leaders of the nation, when candidates for the nomination
                    were invariably invited to speak. To eliminate Roosevelt from the banquet board, no avowed
                    candidates were to be invited and the speakers were confined to the three living former nominees of
                    the party—John W. Davis, James M. Cox, and Al Smith. Smith had not then announced his
                    candidacy, but both he and Cox were candidates under cover and both were favored by the
                    conspirators.
            However, at the convention the Smith candidacy, which Rascob and his associates had forced, turned
                    out to be a boomerang. When he visited all the candidates this reviewer found everyone astonished
                    because no meeting of the anti-Roosevelt aspirants had been called to work out strategy, and bitter
                    because Smith was "stealing the show," and because the impression was being
                    encouraged that the nomination would have to go either to Roosevelt or Smith.
            
            The deadlock did not develop because of the refusal of Jack Garner, a candidate, to create a
                    deadlock. He had never taken his candidacy too seriously, and he wanted no repetition of the
                    notorious deadlock of 1924 that wrecked the party. He so informed Sam Rayburn, his floor manager;
                    the secret leaked to Farley, and in the resulting conference Garner's delegates went to
                    Roosevelt, and Garner was selected the vice presidential nominee.
            Professor Freidel's account of the campaign is sufficiently detailed. One item, however,
                    puzzles the reviewer. The biographer makes the point that while Roosevelt favored a vigorous attack
                    on Hoover's subordinates, he was dead set against an attack directly on their chief, and he
                    has found a letter from Garner to Roosevelt promising "to punch the Administration in the
                    nose, especially Hoover" (p. 324). While Garner was a powerful debater he abhorred the
                    stump and it was with the greatest difficulty that he was persuaded to make one speech to the nation
                    via the radio. When the party leaders urged him to make a slashing attack and found him reluctant
                    they were astonished. Had Roosevelt vetoed the plan to "punch the Administration in the
                    nose, especially Hoover?" Garner was at the Biltmore Hotel in 
                        New York
                     the day he was to make his radio speech in the evening, and this reviewer was asked by
                    Rayburn to see him and urge a militant attack. Why not Rayburn? "Because," Rayburn
                    explained, "the old man is sore at me for urging him to make a speaking campaign."
                    I found Garner in a mellow thoughtful mood and he promised to make a vigorous attack, and then
                    added: "I wonder if the people will feel sorry for Hoover." That night the attack
                    was vigorous, but with that he retired to his 
                        Texas
                     home and maintained silence throughout the campaign. Was this his protest against
                    Roosevelt's idea of making no direct attack on Hoover? It is an interesting footnote to
                    history.
            The very few things the biographer omits do not detract significantly from the fascinating story
                    Freidel has told, based on the mountains of manuscript he consulted at Hyde Park and his
                    conversations with participants in the scenes portrayed. Whatever the future may uncover, it is not
                    likely that future biographers will be able to throw much new light on the years covered in The Triumph.
            
            Claude G. Bowers 
                  
                            New York
                         City
            
         
         
         
            
               Stephen T. Badin, Priest in the Wilderness. By J. Herman Schauinger. (Milwaukee:
                    Bruce Publishing Company, 1956. Pp. xi, 317. Frontispiece, illustrations, maps, appendices,
                    bibliography, and index. $7.50.)
            Of all the French clergymen who fled to the 
                        United States
                     from the French Revolution, Father Stephen Theodore Badin, the first man ordained
                    priest in the 
                        United States
                    , was perhaps the most interesting. Bishop (later Cardinal) Jean Cheveru of 
                        Boston
                    , Bishop Benedict Joseph Flaget of Bards-town, and Archbishop Marechal of 
                        Baltimore
                     have historical significance chiefly because of their episcopal activities. Stephen
                    Theodore Badin's contribution was personal. He was already a cleric when he came to this
                    country and had received almost all his training in 
                        France
                     among ecclesiastics of rigorist traditions. To his classical training he soon added a
                    good command of the English language before being sent by Bishop John Carroll of 
                        Baltimore
                     to work among the transplanted 
                        Maryland
                     Catholics in 
                        Kentucky
                    . Other Catholic missionaries came to 
                        Kentucky
                     and departed after a brief service, but Father Badin remained for two decades the
                    foundation stone and the pillar of strength of Catholicism in the trans-Allegheny missions.
            When this twenty-five year old priest reached 
                        Scott County
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    , in 1793 and began his missionary journeys on foot and on horseback, he did not fit the
                    picture of the heroic pioneer. He was a stern man of small stature whose broad mouth and sharp eyes
                    were not given to smiles. Yet he soon acquired the respect of his fellow pioneers by his
                    tirelessness, his courage, and the strictness of his life and teachings. Schauinger has called these
                    first years in the 
                        Kentucky
                     missions "the lonely years," but Badin was always a lonely figure,
                    chiefly because of his unique personality and his rigorism. He was a severe critic of frontier
                    amusements, partly because of the roughness of these gatherings and partly because of his reform
                    ascetical tendencies; yet his understanding of the problems of the frontier was profound and his
                    sympathy equally deep. The members of his missions—largely families of English origin
                    with a long tradition as a Catholic minority—readily accepted his plans for Catholic
                    education and social life. In his strictness he was critical  of
                    the more moderate religious traditions, especially as he encountered them in the English Dominican
                    Fathers.
            The great crisis in Badin's life came with the appointment of Bishop Flaget as the first
                    Bishop of 
                        Bardstown
                     in 1808. Until that time Badin, as Vicar General, had been the chief pastor of 
                        Kentucky
                    . He welcomed the establishment of regular episcopal jurisdiction in the West but soon
                    disagreed with the Bishop about what power and property he would retain after Flaget's
                    arrival. At the time, the American practice of episcopal control of all property had not yet been
                    established and there was some justice in Badin's claim to ownership of some of the
                    properties. Nevertheless, Flaget had the better claim and eventually Badin had to yield. Badin then
                    left the 
                        Kentucky
                     missions and returned to 
                        France
                     for a decade. But his heart was in 
                        Kentucky
                    , and in Europe he became an active collector for the American missions and an agent for
                    Bishop Flaget and other western missionaries.
            His return to the American missions in 1828 and his re-establishment of the old Saint Joseph Mission,
                    north of the present city of 
                        South Bend
                    , is a remarkable postlude to his earlier mission career. Although then over sixty years
                    of age he showed remarkable physical vigor, riding horseback from 
                        Michigan
                     to 
                        Kentucky
                     and from 
                        Fort Wayne
                     to 
                        Chicago
                     to serve scattered Catholic families and remnants of Indian tribes. He bought the site
                    of the present University of Notre Dame and organized the first orphanage in the state of Indiana,
                    in 1834, under the direction of two religious women from 
                        Kentucky
                    , Sister Lucina Whitaker and Sister Magadalen Jackson. He soon gave up strenuous
                    missionary work, serving however in occasional priestly activities in 
                  Kentucky, Ohio
               , Indiana, and 
                        Illinois
                    , until declining health forced his retirement. When he died in 1853 he was revered as
                    the most important missionary priest of the Ohio Valley, as well as an
                    exemplary churchman. Handicapped by the loss of Father Badin's own papers, Herman
                    Schauinger has used the letters which this active missionary wrote to his superiors and friends in
                    order to trace the amazing career of this lonely figure to whom midwestern Catholicism owes so much.
            Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C. University of Notre Dame
            
         
         
         
            
               The Carolina Chronicle of Dr. Francis LeJau, 1706–1717. Edited by
                    Frank J. Klingberg. Volume LIII, University of 
                        California
                    
                    Publications in History. (Berkeley: University of 
                        California
                     Press, 1956. Pp. vii, 220. Illustrations and index. Paperbound, $3.50.)
            Conditions and problems in colonial 
                        South Carolina
                     are strikingly delineated in the interesting correspondence of Dr. Francis Le Jau, who
                    was a missionary for the Society for the Propagation of the Gospel in Foreign Parts from 1706 to
                    1717. In Le Jau's reports to his superiors and to his friends in 
                        England
                     considerable insight can be gained on the difficulties of colonial life in general and
                    upon the particular problems attendant upon a conscientious and intelligent clergyman.
            Le Jau often plaintively cited the chronic neglect of his parishioners who rarely provided him with
                    even the necessities of life and almost never the material equipment needed to carry on his
                    religious work. A man who brings his family to 
                        South Carolina
                    , Le Jau remarked, must expect to live on Indian corn, water, milk occasionally, and
                    meat once a week. Furthermore, his meager funds were ever rendered more inadequate by the runaway
                    inflation in the colony. Le Jau also had reason to bewail the frequent and devastating attacks of
                    fever from which he and his flock periodically suffered, and he depicted with simple but graphic
                    skill the real menace of the Indian wars and the discouragement and frustrations of isolation.
            In carrying out the objectives of the Society for the Propagation of the Gospel to shepherd the
                    Anglican fold and add converts from all three races of people in Carolina, Le Jau showed himself to
                    be an intelligent and indefatigable worker, although he encountered tremendous difficulties and
                    obstacles. Among the white settlers he found some who valiantly resisted his best efforts to work
                    for their spiritual improvement either because they were irreligious or because they were of
                    Calvinist or Anabaptist faith and would have none of his arguments, his tracts, or his persuasion.
                    Le Jau also noted that although he had instructed and baptized a number of Negroes, he found
                    considerable resistance from some slave-owners who feared that any instruction of the slaves would
                    be a prelude to their desire for emancipation. Le Jau, however, was firm in his belief that
                    Christianity  and slave-holding could exist satisfactorily side
                    by side. He did comment, though, that the continual influx of new slaves from the West Indies made
                    both his work and that of the slave-owners more difficult.
            Le Jau may have lacked insight into the eventual consequences of instructing the Negroes, but
                    certainly his whole life suggests that his failing was not a want of courage. Perhaps he did not
                    think through to its ultimate conclusions some of the implications of his teaching on the value of
                    the individual slave in the sight of God, but he had an admirable ability to see the immediate need
                    of the Negroes for moral and spiritual assistance. It should also be noted that Le Jau spoke out
                    boldly against the barbarous punishments which he saw inflicted upon the slaves, even though that
                    could not have been popular with his parishioners. Le Jau's letters furthermore indicated
                    remarkable interest in and understanding of both the Negro and the Indian. He felt, for example,
                    that Indian uprisings were in large part a result of the corrupt practices of the white traders, a
                    view he often reiterated. Le Jau dodged no issues when he saw an injustice. He was a man of great
                    moderation and balance.
            The observations of this keen and fair-minded man who showed such unbounded interest in everything
                    from inflation to Indian languages provide a valuable source for the study of colonial 
                        South Carolina
                    . The footnotes and index of the volume are adequate and helpful, but perhaps the
                    introduction might have been a bit more complete in helping to set the scene for the correspondence.
            Mary Steele Owen 
                  
                            Franklin
                         College
            
         
         
            
               David Crockett: The Man and the Legend. By James Atkins Shackford. Edited by
                    John B. Shackford. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1956. Pp. xiv, 338. Frontispiece, foreword, appendices, notes, bibliography, and
                    index. $6.00.)
            The twentieth century has inherited quite a variety of David Crocketts, as Walter Blair has recently
                    pointed out. At one extreme is the sentimentalized frontiersman (to whom this reviewer was
                    introduced in Youth's Companion stories some fifty years ago) who, in spite of all the
                    strongman  heroics that can be included, remains in his most
                    recent apotheosis just a figure of juvenile idealism. At the other is the ring-tailed roarer of the 
                        Tennessee
                     settlements, a genuinely adult folktype, who became a master of electioneering
                    chicanery, was a vigorous brawler, and was sublimated to a demigod of American humor, who could grin
                    a coon out of a gumtree, thaw out a friz-up winter morning with bear oil, or swallow a bolt of
                    axletressity to explunctificate his passions. The second Davy has been brought to modern stature in
                    late years largely by such scholarly shaping as that of Constance Rourke. In between there have been
                    numerous variations playing from either extreme.
            The one Crockett who has always been uncertain is the historical one. Now comes a careful study by
                    Dr. James A. Shackford, lately of the English department of 
                        North Carolina
                     State College, with the assistance of his brother, Dr. John B. Shackford, professor of
                    English at Cornell College, to meet this need. The factual over-structure of Crockett's
                    life has long been well known, of course, ever since the so-called Autobiography of 1834 and other
                    contemporary accounts. This new study covers, as usual, Crockett's origins of 
                        North Carolina
                     and 
                        Virginia
                     frontier stock in eastern 
                        Tennessee
                    , his youthful roles in the Creek War and the War of 1812, his several marriages, his
                    following the new-land border to western 
                        Tennessee
                    , his proficiency as a hunter, and his popularity as a rough local humorist. There is a
                    rich account of his public services (touched with growing propensities toward gargantuan
                    exhibitionism) first as a local justice and commissioner, then as a state legislator, and finally as
                    a congressman; his fight to make the federal land laws serve the common settler; his vigorous
                    quarrel with Andrew Jackson; and finally his departure for 
                        Texas
                     and his death in the siege of the 
                        Alamo
                     in 1836. Professor Shackford's great service is in giving to all the related
                    fact and fiction accumulated during the past century and a half a discriminating and documented
                    sorting. Both the historical personage and the cherished myth have profited.
            Crockett's most important accomplishment as a public servant resulted from his long fight to
                    reform the federal land laws as they operated in 
                        Tennessee
                    . As so often happened across America, the opening of new lands had been largely rigged
                    to benefit the pockets of wealthy investors. In 
                        Tennessee
                     during the 1820's and 1830's it was largely a  problem of the so-called "vacant lands," less
                    desirable, unsettled parcels, especially in the western counties. These Crockett wanted released to 
                        Tennessee
                     where they could be sold to the poor at low rates, with the proceeds going to the
                    state's education fund. Crockett's long struggle ended in the failure of his bill,
                    his defeat in the 1835 election (with the whole-hearted animosity of President Jackson thrown in for
                    good measure), and his final disgusted departure not only from Congress but from the Union to seek a
                    new and better democracy in 
                        Texas
                    . Nevertheless, as Professor Shackford points out, Crockett's reforms
                    ultimately prevailed and it was his son John Wesley who pushed the measures in Congress in 1839 and
                    1841 that gave the lands at last to the state of 
                        Tennessee
                     to sell for 12½ cents an acre with preemption purchase rights. To all such
                    major episodes in Crockett's career, Dr. Shackford gives a painstaking historical reality.
                    The 
                        Texas
                     and 
                        Alamo
                     finale in 1836 is especially well accomplished, this reviewer feels, with
                    Crockett's quixotic idealism and his bumptuous muscularity coming together into a pattern
                    of fact that is quite within the bounds of an understandable personality—coonskin cap,
                    rifle, and all.
            For historians of American regional literature, Shackford carefully untangles the bibliographical
                    snarls attending the authorship of the various "memoirs" that have long been
                    attributed to (but frequently could not have come from) the semi-literate pen of Davy. For
                    folklorists, he gives a discerning analysis of the "six primary factors" that he
                    has found working to create the legendary Crockett: "the imaginative temper of the
                    unsettled West; the imaginative temper of the settled East; the qualities of the man himself with
                    reference to the tempers of the time; the political parties, and their employment of a national
                    press to establish that symbol clearly in the minds and thoughts of a whole nation;
                    Crockett's dramatic death at the 
                        Alamo
                    , which raised him to the level of a national martyr; and the pursuit by latter-day
                    writers of `Davy of the typescript'" (p. 241).
            Dr. Shackford is perhaps a bit too sensitive toward these last mentioned writers. True, in the recent
                    scurrying about for an American pantheon, scholars have tended to erect folk heroes in the image of
                    their own wish-thinking. But so it has always been whether in gleeman's songs or a college
                    professor's  manuscript. All are forces shaping the
                    popular concept. Dr. Shackford's contribution to the process through his careful fact
                    finding will not exorcise the folk-created Davy Crockett and replace him with a mere historical
                    reality. Instead, let us hope, it will provide the substance to help stabilize him as a worthy
                    symbol in which future generations will find continuing value.
            Four appendices discussing literary problems and the Crockett portraits, twenty-three pages of notes,
                    an eight-page bibliography, and a good index round out this valuable book.
            Robert Price Otterbein College
            
         
         
            
               Carl Becker: On History and the Climate of Opinion. By Charlotte W. Smith. (
                        Ithaca
                    : Cornell University Press, 1956. Pp. xi, 225. Bibliography and index.
                    $3.75.)
            Let it be said at once that this is a book which had to be written, that it is written extremely
                    well, and that it deserves high priority on any list of required readings in 
                        American
                     historiography. I for one am deeply grateful to the author, and I have no doubt that my
                    gratitude is shared by a host of others in and out of the profession.
            Like many another scholarly work, this volume began as a doctoral dissertation (University of 
                        Chicago
                    ). It was intended originally to be an intellectual biography of Carl Becker for the
                    primary purpose of explaining his historical relativism. But when the author discovered that she had
                    at her disposal all of Becker's research notes in addition to his correspondence and
                    manuscripts, she kept on enlarging the scope of her investigation until it assumed its final
                    proportions. While this is not the first study done on Becker, and while it is not likely to be the
                    last, it is certainly the best and the most comprehensive so far. Other studies will be made, no
                    doubt, and those who will make them will have to start where this volume leaves off.
            The life and work of Carl Lotus Becker is presented in three parts, although it is not arranged as
                    such—the man, the historian, the literary craftsman. Becker the teacher is by no means
                    neglected; he is always there, usually in the background, and from bits of information scattered  throughout the volume one gets a pretty good picture of his
                    performance in the classroom.
            The portrait of Becker the man is a warmly human estimate of a warmly human person. His life was
                    relatively uneventual and yet not without that high adventure of mind and spirit which is the most
                    exciting life of all. His character and personality are briefly, yet clearly sketched, in keeping
                    with the somewhat quaint description of him by Charles Homer Haskins: "a man of a rather
                    quiet and not forthputting disposition" (p. 18). In popular lingo, Becker was not a
                    "go-getter." He was essentially shy, modest, retiring, self-effacing, and with no
                    illusions about himself. These qualities were sometimes mistaken for remoteness, coolness, and even
                    snobbishness, but not by those who really knew him, and seldom by his better students. In fact,
                    those who knew him most intimately knew him as an "outgoing" person. He was always
                    concerned with the problems and troubles of others, and he was always generous to the less
                    fortunate. It was the kind of disposition easily associated with him by one who knows him only from
                    his writings.
            But it is primarily with Becker the historian that this volume is concerned. Unlike most other
                    historians, Becker did not wait to philosophize about history until he had to write presidential
                    addresses for learned societies. From the very beginning of his studies at 
                        Wisconsin
                     under Turner and Haskins he speculated about the concept, nature, limitations,
                    possibilities, purposes, and goals of history. And this speculative interest increased with the
                    years until it became a consuming passion. What precisely is history? How are events as they are
                    remembered related to events as they actually happened? Are there two kinds of history, the history
                    that actually took place and the history that is created in the mind of the historian? Can these two
                    be brought together? Can history be a science? If so, in what sense? What about the methodology of
                    history? Can the historian learn anything for his craft from the methodology employed by the
                    "exact" sciences, say physics or biology ? Or must the historian devise a
                    methodology which is necessarily different because it is determined by the nature of his materials?
                    Can history be objective? These and many other related questions were always uppermost in his
                    thinking, and his answers to them constitute his principal contribution to historiography.
            
            If, as someone has suggested, Becker may be called the American Ranke, it is not because of any
                    similarity between his approach to history and that of the "father of modern
                    historiography." It is rather because, like the great German historian, he exemplified a
                    tendency and helped spearhead a movement. Whereas Ranke's primary concern was with the past
                    "as it actually was," Becker's concern was primarily with the past as it
                    is remembered or reconstructed. To Ranke, the business of the historian was first and last to
                    establish the facts; to Becker, the historian's principal business was to understand what
                    was going on in his own mind as he went about establishing the facts, especially to be aware of the
                    "climate of opinion" in which he remembered or reconstructed the past. Becker
                    attempted to show that it can never be a science, at least not in any narrow sense. History cannot
                    foretell the future; all it can do is to help us meet the future. To be sure, objectivity and
                    detachment must be cultivated to the utmost, and Becker cultivated them successfully beyond most
                    other historians. Research must be carried on most vigorously and with a scrupulous regard to the
                    laws of evidence, and he was a most careful and thorough researcher. But he believed that, in the
                    final analysis, history is an art rather than a science, albeit a highly specialized art and one
                    which calls for the most rigorous discipline. At best, he considered history to be a personal
                    affirmation about the past, always a partial and tentative affirmation and always reflecting the
                    "climate of opinion" in which it is made. In a word, like Thucydides, he regarded
                    history as "philosophy taught by means of example."
            Perhaps the most valuable contribution of this study is the careful, well documented inquiry into the
                    nature of Becker's relativism. Becker was a controversial figure, and for the most part the
                    controversy revolved about his relativistic view of history. The author does not claim originality
                    for Becker in this respect, but she insists that he was "one of the first American
                    historians to apply the relativist conception to history" (p. 104). Another one was Charles
                    Beard, but Beard's relativism, it is pointed out, was considerably different from
                    Becker's in both kind and degree. Whereas Beard deliberately chose a "frame of
                    reference and wrote accordingly," usually with strong conviction and feeling,  Becker was satisfied to know that he could not get away completely from
                    his "climate of opinion," that, in other words, his judgments and values would
                    reflect his personal biases, assumptions, and his total cultural conditioning. The author sums it
                    all up, felicitously, in one sentence: "Becker's relativism is a modest philosophy
                    akin to Justice Holmes' conception of truth as `the system of my limitations'
                    " (p. 120).
            There are two chapters which at first sight may seem to some to be superfluous, chapter four,
                    "The Art of Writing," and chapter five, "The Practice of
                    Writing." But upon getting into the first of these it becomes clear at once that the author
                    has done well to include them. In fact, these two chapters deserve serious study by anyone who
                    wishes to write history. Becker was not only a scholarly historian, one who knew how to carry on the
                    most painstaking research; he was also one of this country's outstanding literary
                    historians. In fact, he is considered by many to be our most brilliant writer of history. It is safe
                    to predict that for generations to come his books will be read, if only for the beauty and charm of
                    their literary quality. In the second of the chapters referred to the author does something quite
                    unusual. She shows Becker at work by comparing word for word specimen drafts of some of his
                    manuscripts. One can almost see him struggling for the precise term, the happy phrase, the accurate
                    wording, and all that goes into a finished literary product. These two chapters could be extremely
                    helpful to all who aspire to write well, history or anything else.
            Walter E. Bauer 
                  
                            Valparaiso
                         University
            
         
         
            
               The Legend of the Founding Fathers. By Wesley Frank Craven. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        New York
                     University Press, 1956. Pp. viii, 191. Foreword and index. $4.50.)
            
               Charles McLean Andrews: A Study in 
                            American
                         Historical Writing. By A. S. Eisenstadt. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Columbia
                     University Press, 1956. Pp. xx, 273. Frontispiece, introduction, chronology, notes,
                    bibliography, and index. $5.00.)
            The first of these books is a printing of six Anson Phelps lectures on the Stokes Foundation at 
                        New York
                     University which Professor Craven delivered in 1955. It is not,  as its title might suggest, an exercise in iconoclasm. If anything,
                    Professor Craven somewhat surprisingly lends his well-cultured voice to the chorus of those
                    historians from Samuel Eliot Morison to Alan Simpson who are busily rehabilitating the reputation of
                    the 
                        Puritan
                    . The author's purpose, however, in these lectures is not so much to argue
                    either for or against the soundness of American legendary history as to describe its development.
                    This he does with a wealth of illustrative detail from an amazing variety of source materials.
                    Professor Craven traces the legend of the Founding Fathers to its roots, not only in the writings of
                    our relatively uncritical early historians, but in sermons, tracts, political pamphlets, orations,
                    the activities of patriotic and ancestor-worshiping societies, and that most American of all
                    historical phenomena—the anniversary celebrations. As a by-product of this exploration,
                    he gives his readers an excellent bibliography of little-known Americana. In spite of wandering
                    rather far afield, however, Professor Craven does not mention such legend makers as Parson Weems and
                    Nathaniel Hawthorne, who had much more to do with the shaping of America's concept of its
                    own history than did George Bancroft.
            In his first lecture, Professor Craven discusses the origins of American tradition in regard to its
                    own history during the colonial period when the principal concern was the question "Why
                    came we here?" and the inspired answer, "To seek liberty—religious and
                    political," became firmly rooted in 
                        American
                     consciousness. His second lecture deals with the contributions of this tradition to the
                    polemics of the Revolutionary period, when it served to bolster the argument that Americans were
                    seeking only to preserve what they had originally crossed the Atlantic to find. The third lecture
                    traces the growth of the varying colonial traditions (Roger Williams, for example, was originally
                    regarded very differently in 
                        Massachusetts
                     and 
                        Rhode Island
                    ) into a more or less common, national hagiography, with the Fourth of July serving as a
                    bond of union between peoples who still differed over their celebrations of Christmas and
                    Thanksgiving. The last three lectures deal for the most part with the ways in which racial groups,
                    societies, and patriotic organizations have encrusted the Legend of the Founding Fathers and how the
                    legend has been first battered and then refurbished in the 
                    twentieth century. These last chapters make easier reading than the first, but they are less
                    rewarding.
            Lectures are designed to be heard, not read, and the criteria for judging them in print cannot be
                    quite the same as for other books. Professor Craven's lectures are peppered with
                    ear-catching and thought-provoking phrases (for example, "It is a remarkable fact that the
                    American who finds himself rejected as an American quarrels not so much with the test by which he is
                    rejected as with the proposition that he cannot meet the test" p. 109), but on the whole
                    they do not emerge as readily digestible prose. There are such flat contradictions as that on page
                    176 where it is first said of James Truslow Adams that "For the old heroes, he offered new
                    ones," then five lines later that he, "Like other idol smashers… showed
                    little inclination to set up new ones." This may, of course, be a typographical error, like
                    the two which appear in footnote 90, p. 117 (Merle Curtis rather than Curti, and Dictionary of American History, where Biography is obviously intended).
                    Aside from a very few slips (Isaac Backus preached in 
                        Massachusetts
                     rather than 
                        Connecticut
                    , p. 79) Professor Craven's scholarship is impeccable, and his theme full of
                    challenging suggestions. In an area of such unlimited vistas, however, it is difficult to avoid
                    resort to doubtful generalizations and proof which sometimes denies rather than supports.
            One of the great American historians whom Craven rightly treats as a deflator of the Founding Fathers
                    was the late Charles McLean Andrews, a 
                        Connecticut Yankee
                     in King Ranke's court for more than fifty years. Andrews first dedicated
                    himself to the cause of "scientific history" through the inspiration of Herbert
                    Baxter Adams at Johns Hopkins and Frederick William Maitland in 
                        England
                    . According to Eisenstadt, he was a tireless cruader at Bryn Mawr, Johns Hopkins, and,
                    for thirty-three years at Yale, under that banner with the strange device, wie es
                        eigentlich gewesen. Together with Herbert Levi Osgood and George Louis Beer, he founded the
                    "imperial school" and put back the "colonial" into American
                    colonial history. He saved incalculable man-hours of labor for future historians by publishing his
                    three-volume Guide to the Materials for American History to 1783 in the Public
                    Record Office, the British Museum, and various other British archives. He wrote a series of
                    scholarly and  incisive books on English and American history,
                    and, during the last decade of his life, capped a brilliant career of research and synthesis by
                    publishing his summa historica, the four volume Colonial Period of
                        American History.
            
            All this, and something more, is told in considerable detail, with brilliant exposition and a
                    slightly euphemistic style (of which my preceding paragraph is a deliberate imitation) in Mr.
                    Eisenstadt's study. Although it contains biographical facts, it is not a biography of
                    Professor Andrews, and while it discusses his writings at some length it is not by any means a
                    complete analysis of them. It is, rather, an essay on the Rankean influence in 
                        American
                     historiography, particularly upon the study of American colonial history with special
                    reference to the writings of Andrews. As such, it is a worthy, even though somewhat soporific and
                    highly inflated piece of work. The author not only knows the writings of Andrews intimately, which
                    is no small accomplishment, but he writes competently of works by Maitland, Stubbs, Bancroft, Adams,
                    Beer, Channing, Fisher, Greene, Jameson, Jernegan, Osgood, Root, Tyler, Van Tyne, Beard,
                    Bridenbaugh, Dickerson, Gipson, Harper, Labaree, Morison, and Schlesinger. His best chapters are
                    probably the last two, 7 and 8, in which he discusses these various contemporaries of Andrews.
            In spite of the obvious competence of the author, this book will probably contribute little to those
                    who are already acquainted with the works of Andrews. In fact, it will probably annoy them by its
                    insistent repetitions, even of the same quotations, and its gross exaggeration both of the
                    importance and of the intensity of Andrews' fight on behalf of "scientific
                    history." Even the most dedicated "relativist" today would heartily
                    concur in Andrews' insistence upon a thorough examination of the evidence of every side of
                    the question, and few colonial historians would quarrel with the validity of his new perspective in
                    the period prior to 1783 (or even later). Eisenstadt recognizes that Andrews himself often failed to
                    keep the new perspective in focus—that he found it easier to preach a cause in his
                    preface than to practice it in his text. For this very reason, because Andrews was actually less
                    wedded to Leopold von Ranke than Eisenstadt seems to think, his great Colonial Period
                        of American History will appear upon the reading lists of American history courses for a
                    long time to come. Between the disciples of  Croce, who profess
                    to believe that no histories (except their own, perhaps) will outlast the generation which produced
                    them, and the followers of Ranke, who thought that a history of absolute and eternal value could be
                    written, a humble votary of Clio may prefer to pronounce a plague on both their houses and read them
                    all for whatever they can give him.
            Lynn W. Turner Indiana University
            
         
         
            
               American Life in Autobiography: A Descriptive Guide. By Richard G. Lillard. (
                        Stanford
                    : 
                        Stanford
                     University Press, 1956. Pp. 140. Index. $3.75.)
            Although this book contains an annotated list of over four hundred American autobiographies, Mr.
                    Lillard makes it clear at the outset that he is not working in the service of "experts in
                    research." "It is my intention," he writes in his "Note on
                    Purpose and Method," "that this descriptive guide be useful to present day readers
                    of all sorts who consult lists of books and welcome annotations. This is a selected list of general
                    interest of books that I have read and thought worth someone else's
                    time—granting wide variations in taste and reading skill." Mr. Lillard deals
                    primarily with twentieth century American autobiographies (including twentieth century editions and
                    reprints of older books); one of his prime requisites for listing a book is its availability:
                    "I have wanted to list books that are available, that library patrons can get hold
                    of." He has "ignored autobiographies, however good," that have not been
                    published in "complete, separate volumes," for he realizes that "only
                    graduate students with their eyes on degrees will look up such material." He has annotated
                    only books which he has read; he admits candidly that he has not mentioned books which he
                    "never heard of."
            Mr. Lillard groups the autobiographies under broad occupational headings such as "Actors and
                    Show People," "Doctors," "Musicians," and
                    "Society Leaders." (He shrewdly lists Polly Adler's A House
                        is Not a Home under "Businessmen, Financiers, Industrialists"). In his
                    introductory essay he sets forth criteria of judging autobiography: formula writing, details of
                    trips, racing too fast, name dropping, and  covering up are some
                    of the "ways of going wrong"; a consistent point of view, a frame of reference,
                    "sadness: admission of error and failure," "empathy from the
                    start," and "a sense of progression or change" are ways of going right.
                    He then annotates in terms of these criteria.
            "In compiling my working list," writes Mr. Lillard, "I used several
                    bibliographies of autobiography, plus my own accumulated notes, but mostly—and
                    repeatedly—I followed a system of examining the books on the shelves of
                    libraries." We may at this point question the value of such a "system"
                    and of what has resulted from it. Mr. Lillard does not pretend to bibliographical thoroughness even
                    for twentieth century American autobiography; he has given data "on editions and
                    reprintings" only as these "came to hand." Is he, then, interested only
                    in sharing with "readers of all sorts" the results of his personal readings in
                    autobiography and in aiding their judgment with a set of elementary criteria of good and bad? Is his
                    self-imposed job that of passing on the interesting things he has encountered in his readings?
            Insofar as the answer to these questions is yes the book assumes the nature of a browser's
                    corner, neat and orderly to be sure, but only of chance value. A more accurate title would be A Descriptive Guide to Some American Autobiographies I Have Read. But the book
                    will serve in a more predictable way. Mr. Lillard's earlier America in
                    Fiction (which he compiled together with Otis W. Coan) was "designed to aid students
                    of American civilization—adults using the facilities of public libraries, college
                    undergraduates, and young people in the eleventh and twelfth grades." Mr.
                    Lillard's "readers of all sorts who consult lists of books and welcome
                    annotations" is, basically, the same group. The book will aid these people: it will be
                    regarded as indispensable by the high school senior and college undergraduate with certain kinds of
                    research papers to write, by the adult whose study group hands him an assignment on American artists
                    or musicians. But it will seem indispensable to these people precisely as a tool of research. American Life in Autobiography will be to the amateur researcher what a thorough
                    bibliography is to the graduate student and expert. It is thus unfortunate that Mr. Lillard writes
                    off the work of the expert as "recondite" and mentions the research of graduate
                    students as if it involves worlds other than the one we all 
                    live in. If he is doing anything more than presenting a browser's corner he ought to
                    demonstrate belief and seek to arouse interest in the idea of research. We cannot all be graduate
                    students and experts, but we can respect their work if we are properly instructed, if we are made to
                    understand its relevance. It is regrettable that Mr. Lillard feels no responsibility to promote even
                    the beginning of such an understanding.
            But Mr. Lillard suggests that he has an interest in 
                        American
                     autobiography beyond what we have been discussing here. In his introductory essay he
                    seeks to see autobiography as a vital part of American historical life. "The better
                    American autobiographies," he writes, "are structured around a perception of
                    change on two levels, the social on one and the personal and intellectual on the other." He
                    tries, in short, to explain the nature of American autobiography as something that will let us know
                    more fully the nature of our national character. Unfortunately, he does not develop such an
                    explanation, potentially a matter of great significance. Would that each section or grouping in the
                    book had an accompanying essay in which Mr. Lillard examined the image that the representative
                    autobiographies present to us—the self-image of the public official, the religious
                    leader, the social worker, the artist. Would that we could see defined the variations on the central
                    theme of change as they exist in the autobiographies of each group. Would that we had a historical
                    survey tracing the development of the self-image of any one of these groups. For these are things we
                    need to know, things which would enable us to deal with autobiography more surely and more
                    intelligently than we do now.
            Mr. Lillard takes no more than a first step toward seeing American autobiography as a functioning
                    part of American life. He does not attempt to go further. But in taking the first step as if it
                    might, after all, be the whole journey, he leaves us with the certain knowledge of how far he did
                    not go.
            Terence Martin Indiana University
            
         
         
         
            
               I, Alone, Remember. By Lucile Carr Marshall. Volume XVIII, Number 3, Indiana
                    Historical Society Publications. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1956. Pp. 100. Illustrations. $1.00.)
            The much overused word nostalgia best describes this little volume of delightful
                    reading, whether it is viewed by one in his youth or by one who has reached the age when memories
                    are more important. It is an account of ancestors and descendants. In the words of the author,
                    "Now that I am a grandmother I know, too, what descendants really are. Ancestors, descendants—the dry, parchmentlike flavor, associated with
                    genealogical records has been removed from both words for me" (p. 245).
            Miss Marshall carries us through the generation of people, through the development of the farm home
                    and community, and through the vicissitudes of history with such clarity that we feel that we are
                    actually living the experiences that she relates. It is not a bewailing of "the good old
                    days" that are best but an appreciation of both past and present. Let her speak again:
            "Descendants are babies. Descendants are people who come into the world as individuals with
                    whom we are not yet acquainted. Immediately they set about developing into endearing folks with
                    cuddly, funny ways. When I have been looking into the eyes of my grandbabies, I have wished my
                    parents might have enjoyed them too, for they would have loved them so. From that point I have gone
                    on to bestow pity upon my ancestors. They missed so much of which they did not dream, because they
                    could not know the babies who are arriving in the pulsing present" (p. 245).
            The picture presented runs all the way from the cabin and fireplace, presided over by an ex-slave
                    woman of uncanny knowledge, through the building and the subsequent rebuilding of the newer
                    permanent homestead down to the modern leave-taking of the old place for an abode in an urban
                    center. It is typical of the Hoosier scene. We see the black-silk gowned, severe appearing ancestral
                    ladies of the household as they stare down from their frames, long after black silk and severity are
                    only memories. We can hear the clanking of the chain and the dripping of the water as the bucket is
                    cranked up from the depths of the well, and we long for it after the well has gone dry and a more
                    modern method has been installed. We suddenly realize that grandmother's  fireplace dinners are no longer part of daily living and that now
                    better cooking is served from a cooking stove. Then we are suddenly brought to the realization that
                    "stove personalities" all over the house, those stoves that we both loved and
                    feared, are also gone, and in their places only the whirring of the fan that keeps the place so
                    evenly and comfortably heated.
            A visit to the sugar camp during the February molasses run, as Miss Marshall describes it, is an
                    experience to remember. The sap had to be collected and boiled to exactly the right degree of
                    density for molasses or wax or that tasty delicacy, maple sugar candy.
            Even the domestic diplomacy that the wife and mother had to use in managing the household to which
                    she had been brought as a bride brings either a smile or a frown to the reader, depending on his own
                    experience and memories, as do the fussy uncles, the exacting aunts, and the unchangeable pictures
                    and pieces of furniture.
            This fascinating account of memories runs through wheat fields, larkspur, weddings, fine riding
                    horses, and the entire galaxy of possessions and experiences that made Hoosier life of past
                    generations complete and satisfying. Just climb into the surrey with the family as they leave the
                    old homestead and try to catch some of the emotion they experienced as they drove away, never to
                    return with the same intimate relationship of coming home. Father "handed the
                    reins" to another man, and the surrey jolted down the hill and out of the gate as one era
                    ended and another began.
            
               I, Alone, Remember is a worthwhile addition to the collection of personal memoirs
                    and to the folksy accounts of the middle period of Hoosier life. Our ancestry is not an object of
                    apology; on the contrary, it is to be proudly remembered as the foundation on which our present day
                    culture rests.
            Willis Richardson Earlham College
            
         
         
            
               The American Collector. Edited by Donald R. McNeil. (
                        Madison
                    : The State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , 1955. Pp. 61. Foreword. $2.50.)
            This little volume consists of three symposium papers and a banquet address given at the 1954 Draper
                    Centennial of the 
                        Wisconsin
                     State Historical Society in commemoration  of the
                    appointment of the first superintendent, Lyman C. Draper. The Society also published in 1954
                    Professor William B. Hesseltine's Pioneer's Mission, the Story of
                        Lyman Copeland Draper.
            
            Lyman C. Draper (1815–1891) started out as a young historian interested chiefly in the
                    pioneer West. Instinctively, it seems, he searched for the personal correspondence, diaries, other
                    accounts and manuscripts of pioneers which still remained in private hands. The numerous instances
                    of loss or destruction led him to consider the collecting or rescuing of such materials to be a
                    pioneer historian's mission. For many years he was a godsend to the Society.
            "Draper's Predecessors and Contemporaries," by Lyman H. Butterfield, is
                    mainly concerned with Lyman Draper's chief fellow workers, correspondents, and friendly
                    rivals, who were "brothers of a peculiar but devoted order … rescuing and
                    recording the facts, the lore too, of America's past," as Butterfield frankly
                    states. And he goes on to say that "most of them were New Englanders or of 
                        New England
                     stock." Whatever one's biases may be, the paper deserves considerate
                    reading. Draper's knowledge of collectors and their work may well have been more extensive.
            "The Modern Collector," by Roy P. Basler, discusses both private and institutional
                    collectors. He fears that among them there is "too little concern" for materials
                    of recent origin. Certainly; but the institutional collector either specializes or tries to maintain
                    a proper balance with due regard for budget and space, and in the latter case should be on his guard
                    against enthusiasts, partisans, or propagandists who would stuff his repository. Dr. Basler suggests
                    also that institutions concentrate on acquiring photocopies rather than on bidding up prices of
                    original manuscripts which have a special appeal to private collectors. He might agree that one
                    should consider each manuscript on its individual merits as an historical document, calculate the
                    risk of eventual loss or destruction, and if necessary seek a donor of sufficient means to bring it
                    at once into institutional custody. Dr. Basler's account of his own experiences in
                    collecting Abraham Lincoln manuscripts is a contribution which everyone should read.
            "The 
                        Wisconsin
                     Experiments," by Donald R. McNeil, is excellent, and is especially suggestive
                    in its references to the  Society's success in
                    obtaining group co-operation and funds for the business, labor, and medical history projects.
            The banquet address, "The Draper Manuscripts," by Miss Alice E. Smith, is far from
                    being merely a descriptive catalogue. It is an accurate and comprehensive, eloquent and eulogistic
                    review of Lyman C. Draper's career and achievements, as well as an impressive general
                    description of Draper's accumulations both private and institutional. Her story of the
                    utility of the collections during the last sixty years is amazing, and her disclosure of the
                    possibilities of future use is well worth the historian's attention.
            Let us have more such historical society celebrations and reviews without necessarily waiting for
                    centennials.
            Thomas P. Martin Dunn Loring, 
                            Virginia
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               Agricultural Developments in 
                            North Carolina
                        , 1783–1860. By Cornelius Oliver Cathey. Volume 38, James Sprunt Studies in History and Political Science. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1956. Pp. 229. Bibliography and index. Paperbound, $2.50.)
            Agricultural developments in 
                        North Carolina
                     during the initial half of the nineteenth century were in many respects similar to
                    those in Indiana for the same period. In both states farming was highly diversified and land
                    holdings were widely diffused. Moreover, a new peak of agricultural prosperity was reached in these
                    commonwealths during the decade of the 1850's when the overwhelming proportion of their
                    people was still engaged in farming. The similarity of agriculture in the Hoosier and the Tar Heel
                    states can easily be exaggerated; nevertheless it was considerable, especially in the first quarter
                    of the century when many North Carolinians joined with numerous others from the southern Piedmont in
                    becoming the principal element among the early pioneers of Indiana.
            Professor Cathey has emphasized evidences and manifestations of agricultural progress, but he has
                    also presented the broad outlines of an agricultural history. Following the Revolution, according to
                    Professor Cathey, the farmers of 
                        North Carolina
                     had been even more backward than farmers in other states. At first agricultural
                    progress was slow and  spotty, but it gained momentum during the
                    thirties, forties, and fifties as it did for the nation as a whole. 
                        North Carolina
                    's ante-bellum progress doubtless would have come earlier and would have been
                    more pronounced had it not been for geographical factors which retarded the development of a
                    transportation system, the lack of which in turn retarded agricultural advancement.
            During the first quarter of the nineteenth century a small number of farmers and planters led in
                    fostering agricultural improvement. Progress was encouraged through experimentations, agricultural
                    periodicals, farm almanacs, agricultural societies, and agricultural fairs. In addition, inventions
                    and technological developments furthered agrarian improvement as did the gradual increase in
                    knowledge regarding the composition and uses of soils, breeding practices and seed selection,
                    improved methods of cultivation, and the like. Moreover, agricultural progress gained momentum in
                    the generation preceding the Civil War partly because of advances in public education and
                    transportation facilities in this period.
            Though slavery became more widely diffused in 
                        North Carolina
                     between the Revolution and the Civil War, the average size of agricultural holdings
                    decreased. Furthermore, at the end of the period the greater portion of Tar Heel farmers owned no
                    slaves, while among those who did about half of them owned fewer than five apiece. Only 133 persons
                    owned more than one hundred slaves. The farm, not the plantation, dominated ante-bellum life in 
                        North Carolina
                     (pp. 48–49, 52–53). The reviewer, however, searched in vain for
                    evidence of the impact the institution of slavery might have had on the rate of agricultural
                    improvement.
            This readable study has substantial documentation and an adequate index. Similar studies are needed
                    for numerous other states, including Indiana. The University of 
                        North Carolina
                    , especially its press and its department of history and political science, is to be
                    commended for its support of this volume.
            Donald F. Carmony Indiana University
            
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
