
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 78, Issue 2, pages 93-191. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:78+issue:2+year:1982&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Charles A. Beard: The Formative Years in Indiana
            
                    John Braeman*
               
                
            Charles A. Beard's multifarious achievements and activities were more than sufficient to
                    fill several lifetimes. Besides playing an influential role in reorienting political science in the 
                        United States
                     from the description of the formal machinery of government to the analysis of
                    "how things are actually done,"* Beard was one of
                    the Progressive Era's top experts on municipal government, an apostle of the gospel of
                    efficiency, and a pioneer in the development of public administration as a field of study. He served
                    as supervisor of the 
                        New York
                     Bureau of Municipal Research's Training School for Public Service and then as
                    director of the Bureau, and he was instrumental in the Bureau's reorganization into the
                    Institute of Public Administration. He was one of the founders of the Ruskin Hall workers'
                    education movement in 
                        England
                    , the New School for Social Research, and the Workers Education Bureau of America. He
                    was for many years active in the American Association for 
                  
                     * John Braeman is professor of history at the University of 
                                Nebraska
                            .
                  
                     1 There exists no full-scale biography that attempts to cover the
                            entire range of Beard's interests and activities. The fullest available account of
                            his early years is Paul L. Schmunk, "Charles Austin Beard: A Free Spirit
                            1874–1919 (Ph.D. dissertation, University of 
                                New Mexico
                            , 1957). Bernard C. Born-ing, The Political and Social Thought of
                                Charles A. Beard (Seattle, 1962), is comprehensive, if pedestrian, on the topic.
                            More perceptive, though narrowly focused, is Richard Hofstadter, The
                                Progressive Historians: Turner, Beard, Parrington (
                                New York
                            , 1968), 167–346. Morton G. White, Social Thought in
                                America: The Revolt Against Formalism (
                                New York
                            , 1949), examines Beards role in reshaping American social thought. For his
                            contributions to historical study, see Elias Berg, The Historical Thinking of
                                Charles A. Beard (Stockholm, 19571, and Cushing Strout, The Pragmatic
                                Revolt in American History: Carl Becker and Charles Beard (
                                New Haven
                            , 1958). Thomas C. Kennedy, Charles A. Beard and American Foreign
                                Policy (
                                Gainesville
                            , 1975), traces his views and involvements in one area. Howard K. Beale, ed.,
                                Charles A. Beard: An Appraisal ([
                        Lexington, Ky.
                     ]
                            1954), is a collection of appreciative appraisals and recollections.
                  
                     2 Charles Beard to George P. Brett, September 3, 1907, Beard file,
                            Macmillan Company Records (
                                New York
                             Public Library, 
                                New York
                            ).
               
                    
                    
                  CHARLES A. BEARD DURING HIS YEARS
                            AT DEPAUW
                  
                  Courtesy Archives of DePauw University. 
                                Greencastle
                            , Indiana.
               
                     Adult Education. As the most influential member of the American
                    Historical Association's Commission on the Social Studies and the primary author of the
                    1937 report of the Educational Policies Commission of the National Education Association, The Unique Function of Education in American Democracy, Beard made a major
                    contribution to the revamping of the teaching of the social studies in the public schools. Via his
                    articles, he brought his views on the public issues of his time before a wide audience. He was a
                    lifelong champion of civil liberties and academic freedom, a leading advocate of national planning
                    during the New Deal, and a respected spokesman for isolationism—or what he preferred to
                    call "continentalism"3—in the years before Pearl
                    Habor.
            But Charles A. Beard exerted his largest influence as a historian. His An Economic
                        Interpretation of the Constitution of the 
                            United States
                        
                (1913) and Economic Origins of Jeffersonian Democracy (1915)
                    were pioneering attempts to apply an economic interpretation to American history. Whether accepted
                    or challenged, his interpretation has continued to set the parameters of historical debate on the
                    period. The Rise of American Civilization (1927), which he co-authored with his
                    wife, Mary, revolutionized the writing of history in this country by expanding its scope beyond
                    politics to include the full range of human experience. And his concept of the Civil War as
                    "The Second American Revolution"—which he set forth in that
                    work—has had a lasting influence on Civil War and Reconstruction era scholarship.
                    Beard's 1934 studies, The Open Door at Home and The Idea of
                        National Interest (both written in collaboration with G.H.E. Smith), provided the
                    intellectual foundation for recent New Left revisionist writings on American foreign policy. By his
                    championship of historical relativism he forced the profession to reexamine its methodological
                    premises, and he was the leading spirit behind the Social Science Research Council's
                    report, Theory and Practice in Historical Study (1946). Nor was his impact limited
                    to the academy: he was probably the most widely read American historian of the twentieth century.
                    Over 5.5 million copies of his books on American history were sold. His history textbooks sold
                    equally well. Beard was, Lewis Mumford acknowledged in 1945, "the most powerful single
                    figure in the teaching of American history." During the years 
                  
                     3 Charles A. Beard, A Foreign Policy for America (
                                New York
                            , 1940), 13.
               
                     between the two world wars, John Higham has reaffirmed,
                    "he came close to dominating the study of American history."4
            
            Over forty years ago, Carl L. Becker pointed out that given the way in which historians'
                    values, commitments, and biases shaped their interpretation of their data, historiography
                    "should be in some sense a phase of intellectual history, that phase of it which records
                    what men have at different times known and believed about the past, the use they have made, in the
                    service of their interests and aspirations, of their knowledge and beliefs, and the underlying
                    presuppositions which have made their knowledge seem to them relevant and their beliefs seem to them
                        true."5 More recently, John Clive has heralded the emergence of a
                    new genre in the biographical art, which he termed Cliography. What, he asked, "can one
                    expect to find in the biography of a historian that will best illuminate the relation of his life to
                    his work as well as instruct current practitioners of the art of history?" "One
                    obvious component of any answer to that question," he concluded.
            
                    comes readily to mind: formative influences. We want to know why the great historians chose to
                        write history in the first place, and what it was that led them to write the kind of history
                        they eventually produced. … Childhood and family influences, intellectual and social
                        environment, teachers and guides (living and dead), practical experience in the affairs of the
                        world—all these are shaping forces that we expect to see delineated in any worthwhile
                        biography of a major historian.6
               
                
            At an intellectual level, Beard would have found no difficulty in approving this formulation. Along
                    with Becker he played the leading role in awakening American students of the past to the extent to
                    which "any written history inevitably reflects the thought of the author in his time and
                    cultural setting." The historian's "selection and arrangement of
                    facts," he expounded in his presidential address to the American Historical Association,
                    was "an act of choice" dictated by his values and interests, "controlled
                    inexorably" by "things deemed necessary, things deemed possible, and things deemed
                    desirable." 
                  
                     4 Charles A. Beard and Mary R. Beard, The Rise of
                                American Civilization (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1927), 11, 52–121; Beale, Beard,
                            310–12; Lewis Mumford to Van Wyck Brooks, February 11, 1945, in Robert E.
                            Spiller, ed., The Van Wyck Brooks Lewis Mumford Letters: The Record of a
                                Literary Friendship, 1921–1963 (
                                New York
                            , 1970), 273; John Higham, Writing American History: Essays on
                                Modern Scholarship (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1970), 131.
                  
                     5 Carl Becker, "What Is Historiography?" American Historical Review, XLIV (October, 1938), 22.
                  
                     6 John Clive, "English ‘Cliographers’:
                            A Preliminary Inquiry," in Daniel Aaron, ed., Studies in
                            Biography (
                        Cambridge, Mass.
                     , 1978). 27, 31.
               
                     Despite his deep and abiding interest in "the
                    development of historical conceptions in the minds of historians,"7
                    Beard in his own writings failed to go beyond broad generalizations about the influence of the
                    larger intellectual climate. The nearest he came to undertaking an individual case study was when
                    after the death of former Senator Albert J. Beveridge of Indiana, Beveridge's wife and
                    publisher invited Beard to write his biography. Beard had advised Beveridge while the former
                    lawmaker was writing his monumental lives of John Marshall and Abraham Lincoln, and he was attracted
                    by the suggestion that the proposed work would offer "a splendid opportunity to trace the
                    developing ideals of historical and biographical writing in this country." But after
                    looking over the Beveridge papers he decided against the project, in large part because
                    "his early days in the middle west and the social order from which he rose cannot be
                    adequately covered from the collected papers."8
            
            That difficulty is the more formidable for the would-be biographer of Beard, for he was
                    temperamentally averse to making public the man behind the published books. "As an old
                    student of history," he replied to a query asking for biographical data, "I
                    suspect all memoirs and autobiographies which human beings write, and would apply the same suspicion
                    to any of my own reflections about myself. Old men love to embalm themselves as they would like to
                    appear to posterity, and I never regard such undertaking operations seriously in respect of others.
                    Why should I engage in anything of the kind?"9 More fundamentally, as a
                    perceptive interviewer observed, both he and his wife believed that "By our works shall ye
                    know us." Before his death, he destroyed the bulk of his personal correspondence. His wife
                    did the same. "It is true," Mary Beard explained to an aspiring biographer,
                    "that precious things can be lost if letters are not kept. Yet letters go to heirs of an
                    estate and what is done with them is apt to violate conceptions of decency entertained by the letter
                    writers and those who receive letters." Charles Beard did not simply feel himself morally
                    bound to safeguard the confidences of those who wrote 
                  
                     7 Charles A. Beard, "Written History as an Act of
                            Faith," American Historical Review, XXXIX (January, 1934),
                            220–21, 227; Charles A. Beard and Alfred Vagts, "Currents of Thought in
                            Historiography," American Historical Review, XLII (April, 1937),
                            461.
                  
                     8 Ferris Greenslet to Charles Beard, June 10, 1927; Beard to
                            Greenslet, June 13, July 18, 1927, Houghton Mifflin Company Records (Houghton Library,
                            Harvard University, 
                        Cambridge, Mass.
                     ).
                  
                     9 Charles Beard to Fred B. Millett, February 23, 1937, Fred B. Millett
                            Papers (Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library, Yale University, 
                        New Haven, Conn.
                     ).
               
                     him; he also believed that he should be free to say
                    "off the record" in private letters whatever he felt without running the danger of
                    having what he had written misread by strangers. "If one cannot write freely to personal
                    friends, once in a while at least, without fear of confidences being betrayed in print, fear of the
                    uses to which they may be put, then liberty as friendship can be sadly lost."10
            
            Yet Mary Beard was not without ambivalent feelings on the question. Unhappy with most of the writing
                    about Charles Beard in the aftermath of his death, she began to collect materials for a future
                    "true biography." "No one," she confessed, "could be
                    more anxious to have Charles Beard fully understood, if any one can be fully
                    understood, than I am." The problem was that he was such "a highly complicated
                    person" that he "cannot be classified into any mere category of man, thinker,
                    historian. He was not mentally static enough for that simplification." As she looked back,
                    trying to fathom the formative influences that shaped the mature Beard, more than simple
                    biographical convention led her to begin her own interpretive sketch by noting that
                    "independence of spirit, characteristic of Charles A. Beard, seems to have been a family
                        trait."11
            
            Protesting against a threatened budget cut for the University of 
                        North Carolina
                     at 
                        Chapel Hill
                     in 1933, Charles A. Beard explained that "my ancestors on both sides of my
                    house come from this State and that I have rightly inherited an affection for it. Therefore I
                    venture to speak, if not as a son of 
                        North Carolina
                    , then as a grandson."12 The founder of the Beard family in
                    the 
                        United States
                    , John Beard, had migrated from 
                  Devonshire, England
               , to
                            
                  Nantucket, Massachusetts
               , about 1710. A widower, he brought with him two sons,
                    John, Jr., and Richard, and Richard's wife Dorothy. A grandson, Richard, Jr., was born in
                        Nantucket in 1718. He married Eunice Macy when he was twenty-four, fathered
                    five children who survived infancy, and in his fifties moved to near Deep
                    River, in western 
                  Guilford County, North Carolina
               . A member of the 
                        Quaker
                     Monthly Meeting in Nantucket, Richard was admitted in 1772 
                  
                     10 James A. Farrell, "America's Eminent Historian:
                            An Interview with Dr. Charles A. Beard, '98," DePauw
                            Alumnus (January, 1940), 2; Mary R. Beard to Merle Curti, February 18, March 26,
                            December 6, 1950; Merle Curti Papers (State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin, Madison
                     ).
                  
                     11 Mary R. Beard to Curti, January 3, November 11, 1950; February 14,
                            1952, Curti Papers; Mary R. Beard, The Making of Charles A. Beard: An
                                Interpretation (
                                New York
                            , 1953, 9.
                  
                     12 Charles Beard to Frank P. Graham, January 16, 1933,
                            President's Papers (University of 
                                North Carolina
                             Archives, 
                        Chapel Hill, N.C.
                     ).
               
                     to the 
                        New Garden
                     Monthly Meeting. The following year, his son William, who had been born in
                        Nantucket in 1751, married Levina (or Levinah) Gifford; they had five
                    children. Their third son, William Beard, Jr., was born in 1776 or 1777 (the records differ), and in
                    1798 he married Polly (or Polley) 
                        Brown
                    . The couple was disowned by the Deep River Monthly Meeting for
                    marrying "contrary to Discipline," but they were readmitted to fellowships when
                    they submitted papers "condemning" their "misconduct."13
            
            William Beard, Jr., fathered six children. Nathan, his only son, was born April 1, 1810. Marrying
                    Caroline Martin at age twenty, Nathan, like his parents, was charged with "accomplishing
                    his marriage contrary to Discipline." When he showed himself "not being disposed
                    to make satisfaction," he was disowned by the Meeting "as a member of our
                    society." Alienated from his family because of the marriage, Nathan had to struggle to make
                    his way in the world. The couple started their household with two cups and saucers, a clay dish, and
                    three dollars. By 1850 he had acquired a farm whose value he estimated at twelve hundred dollars,
                    which made him one of the more prosperous landowners of the neighborhood. Having suffered
                    financially because of his pro-Union views during the Civil War, Nathan Beard moved after the
                    conflict to Indiana to join his son. His economic success there was limited: the 1870 census listed
                    him as owning a farm worth fifteen hundred dollars, with another four hundred in personal property.
                    At his death in 1883, he left an estate valued at $1,524.07. But he retained to the last
                    a streak of stubborn independence and iconoclasm. A self-taught student of comparative religion, he
                    amassed a library of six hundred volumes on the different religions of the world. "I ran a
                    one-man church," his grandson recalled him as declaring, "in which there can be no
                    dissent." Caroline Beard was similarly known as "very liberal" in her
                    religious views, never joining any church. "She believes that the chief duty of
                    life," a contemporary newspaper sketch related, "is to be truthful, honest and
                    just, to contribute to the 
                  
                     13 Beard genealogy, Beard Collection (DePauw University Archives, 
                                Greencastle
                            , Ind.); Ruth Lindenberger, Beard Family History and Genealogy
                                    (
                        Lawrence, Kansas
                     , 1939, 16, 19, 23–26, 78, 83,
                            85–86; Alpheus Briggs, "Short History of Beard Family, 1772 to
                            1933," (ca. 1933), Briggs Papers; 
                                New Garden
                             Monthly Meeting Minutes, 7–25–1772; 
                                New Garden
                             Monthly Meeting Records, 1, 90; Deep River Monthly Meeting
                            Records, I, 56, 159; Deep River Monthly Meeting Minutes,
                            10–1–1799, 12–2–1799,
                            2–1–1802; Deep River Monthly Meeting
                            Women's Minutes, 12–2–1799, 1–6–1800,
                            2–1–1802; all in 
                                Quaker
                             Collection (Guilford College Archives, 
                        Greensboro, N.C.
                     ).
               
                    
                    
                  A FAMILY GATHERING: LEFT
                            TO RIGHT, ELI F. RITTER, MARY RITTER BEARD,
                                MRS RITTER, AN UNIDENTIFIED MAID, MARY PAYNE BEARD, AND CHARLES A.
                                BEARD MIRIAM
                            AND WILLIAM, CHILDREN
                            OF CHARLES
                            AND MARY, ARE
                            IN
                            THE CART.
                  Courtesy Archives of DePauw University, 
                                Greencastle
                            , Indiana
               
                     wants of the needy, and to be a father to the fatherless, and a
                    protection to the suffering and afflicted."14
            
            The couple's only son was born on July 5, 1840, in 
                  Guilford
                            County, North Carolina
               . Family
                    legend ascribed to Nathan's enthusiasm for the Whig presidential nominee that year his
                    naming the boy William Henry Harrison. William grew up on the family farm and apprenticed to a
                    carpenter. He appears to have had more formal schooling than was typical for the time, and from
                    boyhood he had a reputation as a voracious and wide-ranging reader. Before reaching the age of
                    twenty-one, William had achieved a sufficient position in the community to be elected lieutenant of
                    the local militia company organized after 
                        North Carolina
                    's secession. Balking at swearing allegiance to the Confederacy, he fled north,
                    following the path trod by so many neighbors and relatives to southeastern Indiana. He arrived at
                    the village of 
                  Raysville, Wayne
                Township, 
                        Henry County
                    , in September, 1861, and got a job teaching in the local school. The following spring
                    he moved to neighboring 
                        Huntington County
                    , where he worked as a carpenter, clerk in a warehouse, and county school master.
                    Returning to 
                        Henry County
                     in May, 1863, he married twenty-year-old Mary J. Payne. Neighbors recalled how the
                    practical-minded bride-to-be had insisted that William save a thousand dollars before she would
                    marry him. Their first child, Clarence H., was born March 11, 1869; their second son and only other
                    child, born November 27, 1874, was Charles Austin Beard.15
            
            On his maternal side, as on the paternal, Charles Beard came from a family of what his daughter aptly
                    called "seekers."16 Mary Payne's father, John, had
                    been born in 
                  Stokes County, North Carolina
               , in 1805. At the age of twenty-four, he took four
                    hundred dollars he had saved and moved to Indiana. 
                  
                     14
                            Deep River Monthly Meeting Records, I, 159; Deep
                            River Monthly Meeting Minutes, 1–6–1831,
                            2–3–1831, 3–3–1831, 
                                Quaker
                             Collection; History of 
                                    Henry County
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1884), 795–96; US., Seventh Census, Population Schedules for
                                    
                        Guilford County, North Carolina
                     , 1850, p. 322; US., Ninth Census,
                            Population Schedules for 
                                Henry County
                            , Indiana, 1870, p. 283; General Entry, Claim and Allowance Docket of Estates,
                            61218, 
                                Henry County
                             Circuit Court (
                                Henry County
                             Courthouse, 
                                New Castle
                            , Ind.); Hubert Herring, "Charles A. Beard: Free Lance Among the
                            Historians," Harper's Magazine, CLXXVIII (May, 1939),
                            641; 
                                New Castle
                             (Ind.) Courier, June 12, 1891.
                  
                     15 Biographical data, unless otherwise cited, are from History of 
                                    Henry County
                                
                     , 796–97; [B.F. Bowen], Biographical Memoirs of 
                                    Henry County
                                
                      (
                                Logansport
                            , 1902). 232–33; 
                                New Castle
                            
                            Courier, April 18, May 2, 1907. For further details, see also: Herring,
                            "Beard," 641–42; Schmunk, "Beard," 8, 10.
                  
                     16 Miriam Beard Vagts to Mary E. Caldwell, December 27, 1972, 
                                Henry County
                             Historical Society (
                                New Castle
                            , Ind.); Vagts to author, September 10, [12?], 1976, in possession of
                        author.
               
                     By "industry and good management," he became
                    one of 
                        Henry County
                    's leading citizens, at one time owning 1560 acres. In addition to farming, he
                    ran a threshing operation, owned stores and houses in the county seat of 
                        New Castle
                    , made real-estate loans, and was a founder and director of the Citizens' State
                    Bank of 
                  New Castle, Henry
                            County
               's largest. Even though he had given much of his land
                    over to his children before his death, the official inventory of his estate reported assets of
                    $44,000; local estimates put his worth as high as $150,000. But he combined
                    entrepreneurial astuteness with a restless quest for religious certitude that carried him from the
                    Baptist Church to Methodism and thence to spiritualism. His wife, the former Sarah Wilson, had been
                    born in 
                        North Carolina
                     and moved with her parents to Indiana. Although raised as a 
                        Quaker
                    , she found the answer to her own religious yearnings in spiritualism, having, in the
                    words of a local chronicler, "many manifestations, some of them very comforting to
                    her." Charles remembered her as the prototypical frontier
                    woman—-"strong, active, commanding, a mistress of many arts that lifted
                    life." Although he was only seven years old when she died, he retained fresh in his mind
                    sixty years later how within "the dawning consciousness of my childhood hours she came as
                    an unforgettable apparition, bringing joys and benedictions."17
            
            In his later years, Beard rarely spoke of his mother. Mary Payne Beards horizons were limited to her
                    household activities. She apparently favored his older brother Clarence, and her ill
                    health—including a worsening deafness that Charles would inherit—probably made
                    close ties difficult.18 William Beard loomed as the dominant figure in his
                    youth. After working as a hired hand on a farm and as a carpenter, William in 1866 purchased an
                    eighty-acre farm in 
                        Wayne
                     Township north of the town of 
                        Knightstown
                     for $3,200.19 Supplementing farming with work as a
                    building contractor, he reported in 1870 ownership of 
                  
                     17
                     History of 
                                    Henry County
                                
                     , 517; [Bowen], Biographical Memoirs,
                            623–24; 
                                New Castle
                            
                            Courier, July 3, 10, 1891; General Entry, Claim and Allowance Docket of
                            Estates, 71257, 
                                Henry County
                             Circuit Court. Re his banking connections, see George
                            Hazzard, Hazzard's History of 
                                    Henry County
                                , Indiana, 1822–1906, (2 vols., 
                                New Castle
                            , 1906), 11, 1078–79; on Sarah Wilson Payne, see Charles Beard,
                            letter to editor, 
                                New York
                            
                            Times, January 23, 1938; Charles Beard, "An Unforgettable
                            Woman," (microfilm) Beard Collection.
                  
                     18 Schmunk, "Beard," 12, 27–28. Re Mary Payne Beard's domesticity, see Vagts to author, April 8,
                            [1981]; her illness, 
                                New Castle
                            
                            Courier, August 19, 1892.
                  
                     19 Deed Record Books, XI, 403, Recorder's Office (
                                Henry County
                             Courthouse). The location of the farm is shown in Higgins Belden & Co.,
                                An Illustrated Historical Atlas of Henry Co. Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1875), 16.
               
                     real estate valued at $4,000 and personal property
                    of $1,150. "A short time previous to the great financial panic [of
                    1873]," relates the local county history, "he engaged in real-estate speculations,
                    and during these anxious years, by judicious management and close calculation, he acquired a fortune
                    which is sufficient for a life of the most pleasing luxury and ease." Although he listed
                    his occupation for the 1880 census simply as "carpenter," William Beard had
                    wide-ranging interests. He continued his building-contracting business, owned a number of farms, was
                    active as a lender of money, remained deeply involved in land and town-lot speculation, and took in
                    his later years a leading role in organizing three local banks: the Citizens' State Bank of 
                        Knightstown
                    , the 
                        Henry County
                     Bank of 
                        Spiceland
                    , and the First National Bank of 
                        Lewisville
                    . At his death in 1907, he was estimated worth approximately one hundred thousand
                        dollars.20
            
            William Beard's most salient personality characteristic was a restless, driving energy,
                    which his younger son would inherit. "He was," the author of his obituary wrote,
                    "an incessant worker, both physically and mentally, and he seemed a machine that never
                    rested." While not wealthy by the standard of the emerging plutocracy in the
                    nation's metropolises, he was a man of substance and position in his smaller world.
                    "His life," his eulogist concluded, "seems to have been of the class that
                    helps to uphold the laws and give stability to our government."21
                    Himself successful, he shared the booster spirit of the day. "There never was a land like
                    the 
                        United States
                     of America," he would declaim. "There never was a land of such
                    prosperity and progress." 
                        Henry County
                     was a Republican stronghold, and William Beard—whom Charles would
                    characterize as an heir to the Federalist-Whig tradition—was a staunch backer of the
                    Grand Old Party. His father, Charles was fond of relating, was "about as solid a citizen as
                    Indiana ever produced." He taught his son the value of the dollar and its importance in
                    politics. "People ask me," Beard told a younger historian friend, "why I
                    emphasize economic questions so much. 
                  
                     20 US., Ninth Census, Population Schedules for 
                                Henry County
                            , Indiana, 1870, p. 283; US., Tenth Census, Population Schedules for 
                                Henry County
                            , Indiana, 1880, p. 204B; History of 
                                    Henry County
                                
                     , 797; Richard P. Ratcliff, Charles A. Beard,
                                1874–1948: A Native of 
                                    Henry County
                                , Indiana, With Emphasis on His Boyhood and Accomplishments Prior to
                            1917 (
                                New Castle
                            , 1966), 9, 13. Re his contracting business: 
                                Knightstown
                             (Ind.) Banner, December 30, 1881; November 10, 1882; 
                                Knightstown
                            
                            Sun, December 18, 1885. His real estate transactions are recorded in the 
                                Henry County
                             Deed Record Books. For his banking involvements, see Hazzard, Hazzard's History, 11, 1082–83, 1085–86.
                  
                     21
                            
                                New Castle
                            
                            Courier, May 2, 1907.
               
                     They should have been present in the family parlor, when my
                    father and his friends gathered to discuss public affairs."22
            
            Yet William Beard had his maverick side. An admirer of the famous agnostic Robert Ingersoll, he took
                    pride in his reputation as the local skeptic. An "inveterate reader," he built up
                    a library of over a thousand volumes of history, science, free thought, and the classics.23 He had a yen for travel and gave expression to his frustrated literary
                    aspirations by writing accounts of his trips for the local newspapers.24 In
                    1880, he moved his family to a 167-acre farm just west of the village of Spice-land to give his sons
                    the advantages of the superior educational opportunities offered by the local Friends Academy.25 Given their forceful personalities, relations between William and his younger
                    son were not without friction. "When I was young," Charles recalled, "I
                    thought I knew everything and that my father was fortunate in having instruction from me."
                    When in his teens he even ran away. His daughter remembers his telling how he "dreaded to
                    come home, thinking his father—a terrifying man—would explode … and
                    blow him to pieces." But William, weeping, embraced his son. And Charles, looking back,
                    emphasized the positive side of his father's influence. He "taught me to read hard
                    books early in my boyhood days," and "gave me money generously for books,
                    education, and travel."26
            
            The 
                        Henry County
                     of Charles Beards day was not far removed from the frontier stage. There were no
                    electric lights, 
                  
                     22 Eric F. Goldman, "The Origins of Beard's Economic Interpretation of the Constitution," Journal of the History
                                of Ideas, XIII (April, 1952), 234; Goldman, Rendezvous with Destiny: A
                                History of Modern American Reform (
                                New York
                            , 1952), 149; and Goldman, "Charles A. Beard: An Impression,"
                            in Beale, Beard, 2. Re
                            
                                Henry County
                            's strong Republicanism: Hazzard, Hazard's
                                History, II, 1034–35; on William Beard's party affiliation, see
                            Cline & McHaffe, The People's Guide: A Business, Political and
                                Religious Directory of Henry Co., Ind. (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1874), 348.
                  
                     23 James T. Shotwell, Oral History Memoir, 62 (Oral History
                            Collection, Columbia University, 
                                New York
                            ); Charles Beard to Millett, February 23, 1937, Millett Papers. Most of the
                            library was destroyed when the family home burned, but a few volumes remain in possession of
                            Charles's daughter, Miriam Beard Vagts, of Sherman, 
                                Conn.
                            
                  
                  
                     24
                            
                                New Castle
                            
                            Courier, February 22, 1884; March 23, 1888; 
                                Knightstown
                            
                            Banner, March 2, 1888.
                  
                     25 Beard letter in Souvenir Booklet of the 
                                    Spiceland
                                 Centennial (
                                Spiceland
                            , 1938), 15; reprinted in Clifton J. Phillips, ed., "Charles A.
                            Beard's Recollections of 
                                Henry County
                            , Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, LV (March,
                            1959), 18–22. The purchase of this property, which also included two lots in the
                            town of 
                                Raysville
                            , is recorded in 
                                Henry County
                             Deed Record Books, XXXVII, 500–501; its location is shown in Rerick
                            Brothers, The County of Henry Indiana; Topography, History, Art Folio ([
                                Richmond
                            , Ind., 1893]), 69–70.
                  
                     26 Charles Beard to James Putnam, July 12, 1947, Beard file, Macmillan
                            Company Records; Vagts to author, September 9, [1976]; Charles Beard to Millett, February
                            23, 1937, Millett Papers.
               
                     telephones, refrigerators, or automobiles. A round-trip to the
                    county seat of 
                        New Castle
                    , ten miles from his home, "with a work horse in the shafts was an all-day
                    journey, laborious for man and beast." His father "believed that boys should be
                    brought up on a farm, at hard work in field and forest. By the time I was fifteen I had had enough
                    exercise to last me a life time. My muscles and body were hard as steel. I could ride wildhorses
                    bare back, and split an oak log with a maul and wedge." Although the stereotypical Hoosier
                    has been regarded as provincial, narrowly patriotic, and distrustful of innovation, Charles found in
                    his youthful environment values worth preserving: "a strong sense of individual
                    responsibility," tolerance for men and women of different nationalities and religions, a
                    "spirit of neighborly helpfulness." "Thoughtfulness" and
                    "cooperation" were, he eulogized, the dominating motifs of his boyhood world.
                    "In season and out, the neighbors were always helping one another, in the harvest fields,
                    at threshing, in time of sickness and tragedy."27
            
            Although 
                        Spiceland
                     was a straight-laced, even solemn, 
                        Quaker
                     bastion, there was plenty of entertainment for young Beard: baseball, football,
                    skating, sleighing, sledding, schoolboy debates and politicians' speechmaking, torchlight
                    parades, stage plays put on by local talent, and visits to fairs and circuses all were part of life
                    in the community.28 Neighbors remembered Charles as a red-haired, freckled,
                    lively boy, with an unruly forelock hanging down almost over his eyes and long dangling arms,
                    mischevious, curious, argumentative, high-tempered, with a precocious fondness for "large
                    words." He was regarded as going around with a chip on his shoulder, always having just
                    been in a fight or about to get into another.29 Charles's relations
                    with his brother Clarence—handsome, athletic, popular with the girls, but a weak
                    character who would be afflicted in later years with alcoholism—were troubled. At times
                    he felt so put upon by Clarence's abuse and bullying that he fled to neighbors for refuge.
                    Yet he also looked up to his 
                  
                     27 Charles Beard, letters to editor, 
                                New York
                            
                            Times, January 23, February 13, 1938; Charles Beard to Millett, February
                            23, 1937, Millett Papers; Souvenir Booklet of the 
                                    Spiceland
                                 Centennial, 15.
                  
                     28 Richard P. Ratcliff, Along the Banks of Brook Bezor: A
                                History of the 
                                    Spiceland
                                 Community (n.p., [19631); Souvenir Booklet of the 
                                    Spiceland
                                 Centennial, 17.
                  
                     29 Schmunk, "Beard," 10, 27; Ratcliff, Beard, 3, 10; May Hood to Clifton J. Phillips, November 19, 1957; Loring A. Eilar
                            to Phillips, December 23, 1957, Phillips Collection (DePauw University Archives); Ed
                            Ogborne, "Whatever Became of Old Charlie? Here's the Tale," 
                                New Castle
                            
                            Courier-Times, April 7, 1954.
               
                     rather dashing older brother. Clarence taught Charles to drink
                    beer, wear fancy waistcoats, and play pool. Their escapades, though probably mild by present
                    standards, shocked the staid and prim 
                        Quaker
                     elders of 
                        Spiceland
                    . In their later years the two grew apart, but Clarence had saved Charles from the
                    priggish side of rural and small-town 
                        Quaker
                     society.30
            
            Still, the 
                        Quaker
                     heritage would have its lasting impress. Despite his own free-thinking views, William
                    Beard sent Charles to the local Friends services. He vividly recalled "sitting on the hard
                    benches, my feet far from the floor. … No music. No song. Just the silence of meditation;
                    unless, forsooth, the spirit moved some aged saint to deliver a discourse, usually brief, always
                    terse, generally ending in a quotation from the Scriptures." There he "became
                    acquainted with the majestic dreams of the Jews, the merciful teachings of Jesus, and the sonorous
                    roll of the King James version." The broader values of Quakerism—its concern for
                    humanity, its belief in the innate dignity of the individual, its rejection of dogma, its ethical
                    preoccupations, and its emphasis on the "inner light"—would animate
                    Beard throughout his life. This 
                        Quaker
                     influence similarly shaped many of his later personality traits, some large, such as
                    his humility, awareness of his personal fallibility, and passion for high thinking, some smaller,
                    such as his dislike for ostentation and "gossip" and his impatience with the
                    trivial or frivolous. His daughter recalled how he used "thee" in speaking to her,
                    "and often quoted or semi-quoted 
                        Quaker
                     expressions." "No branch of the Christian Church," Beard
                    would write with his Columbia University colleague James Harvey Robinson, "has ever shown
                    their religion more consistently or beautifully in their lives than the Friends."31
            
            In the fall of 1880 Charles Beard was enrolled in the Primary Department and his brother Clarence in
                    the Intermediate Department of the 
                        Spiceland
                     Academy. The school had been founded in the 1820s by the 
                        Quaker
                     settlers in 
                        Spiceland
                     Township as a place to educate their children in accord with the Society's
                    principles. At the time of Charles's enrollment, the academy offered a full program from
                    the primary level 
                  
                     30 Ratcliff, Beard, 10, 13; Schmunk,
                            "Beard," 17–18; Vagts to author, August 20, 1975, September 9,
                            [1976]. For a biographical sketch of Clarence, see [Bowen], Biographical
                                Memoirs, 411–12.
                  
                     31
                            Souvenir Booklet of the 
                                    Spiceland
                                 Centennial, 16–17; Peter A. Soderbergh, "Charles
                            A. Beard, the 
                                Quaker
                             Spirit, and 
                                North Carolina
                            ," 
                        
                                    North Carolina
                                 Historical Review, XLVI (Winter, 1969), 19–32; Vagts to
                            author, November 27, 1975, September [12?], 1976; James Harvey Robinson and Charles A.
                            Beard, The Development of Modern Europe: An Introduction to the Study of
                                Current History (2 vols., 
                                Boston
                            , 1907–1908), I, 153–54.
               
                     through a three-year high school. "Special
                    attention" was given "to preparing students for College." The curriculum
                    up to the high school level was devoted mainly to arithmetic, geography, composition, spelling, and
                    reading, along with a survey of American history. The program throughout placed heavy emphasis on
                    "Elocution and English Literature," while the high school provided a solid
                    grounding in Latin, algebra, geometry, and trigonometry, and included courses in English and
                    "General History," political economy and government, logic, moral science, and the
                    natural sciences. "Literary exercises" were required "of students in all
                    grades, both in class work and before the whole school." The guiding principle was
                    "that manhood is more important than scholarship, and
                    that self-respect and self-control, on the part of the student, are important factors in the
                    formation of character." The authorities were thus "very careful to make this an
                    institution in which students … will be surrounded by good, moral
                        influences."32
            
            Beard fondly recalled his teachers at 
                        Spiceland
                     Academy. There was Miss Ella Williams, who was "both gentle and
                    stern" and "who led me into the mysteries of letters." Mrs. Hannah E.
                    Davis, "omniscient and indefatigible," "loved good books,"
                    brought back from her travels the "great news of strange lands," and arranged for
                    lectures that "gave us an opportunity to hear distinguished speakers from various parts of
                    the country and from many walks of life." Thomas Newlin taught "the rudiments of
                    American history and the elements of physics, with equal proficiency in my youthful eyes."
                    Thanks to Terrell Wilson, Beard "became acquainted with Wordsworth, Ruskin, Carlyle, and
                    the great men of old." And John E. Parker's "love" for the
                    "Latin tongue" was such "that he could scarcely wait for us to learn the
                    conjugations, so eager was he for us to read Cicero and Virgil for ourselves." The formal
                    classroom work was supplemented by a wide range of extracurricular activities. The school libraries
                    boasted over two thousand volumes ranging from sermons to Darwin's Origin of
                        Species. In the Academy's literary societies students learned, in the words of the
                    1880–81 catalogue, "the rules governing parliamentary 
                  
                     32 The story of the school is recounted in Sadie Bacon Hatcher, A History of 
                                    Spiceland
                                 Academy, 1826 to 1921 (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol.
                            XI, No. 2, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1934). The information on aims, curriculum, and extracurricular activities is
                            drawn from the Catalogue … of 
                                    Spiceland
                                 Academy … for the Academic Year 1880–81 (
                                Spiceland
                            , 1881) and subsequent volumes through 1890–91; complete photocopies
                            of these catalogs are available in the Indiana State Library, 
                                Henry County
                             Historical Society Museum, and the 
                                New Castle
                            -
                                Henry County
                             Public Library.
               
                     bodies." Every Friday night Charles and his fellow
                    debating society members assembled "to solve the burning problems of the hour. Shall the
                    tariff be reduced? Is fame to be preferred to great riches? Should the Federal government regulate
                    railway rates? Local option or prohibition?"33
            
            Beard attended the 
                        Spiceland
                     Academy for ten years, up through the first year of the high school program. The
                    fragmentary surviving records show that his grades were mostly in the nineties—but
                    surprisingly, in light of his future career, he did poorest in his courses in composition,
                    government, and American history.34 Although the Academy catalog for
                    1890–91 still listed him among the "Irregularly Classified," he
                    transferred in the fall of 1890 to the public high school in 
                        Knightstown
                    . The circumstances remain murky. Several of his contemporaries reported that Charles
                    was expelled for his participation in his brother Clarence's pranks, which climaxed in a
                    broadside printed by Clarence (then a student at Indiana University) on a small hand press they
                    owned attacking the University's administration and faculty. Others ascribed his
                    difficulties to having drunk with his brother too much hard cider and then hanging the principal in
                    effigy. Still others recalled Charles leaving on his own to avoid having to testify before an
                    official church board about his brother's reputed immoral behavior.35
                    Renting a room in 
                        Knightstown
                    , Charles joined with a fellow student to put out a monthly school paper that the local
                    newspaper called "a neat, spicy journal." And he was sufficiently advanced in his
                    studies to graduate from Knightstown High School in the spring of 1891, giving as his commencement
                    oration an address, which unfortunately has not survived, entitled "The American
                        God."36
            
            Perhaps his father thought him too young to go away to college; perhaps Charles's own future
                    plans remained in a state of flux. At the same time, Clarence was at loose ends, having been
                    expelled from Indiana University for his blast against the institution's authorities. At
                    any rate, in August, 1891, William 
                  
                     33 Beard's recollections of his teachers and experiences are
                            in the Souvenir Booklet of the 
                                    Spiceland
                                 Centennial, 16.
                  
                     34 Eilar to Phillips, October 22, 1958, Phillips Collection.
                  
                     35
                            Catalogue … of 
                                    Spiceland
                                 Academy … for the Academic Year 2890–92 (
                                Knightstown
                            , 1891), 10; Hood to Phillips, November 19, 1957; Eilar to Phillips, October 22,
                            1958 Sadie B. Symons to Phillips, April 8, 1959, Phillips Collection; Schmunk,
                            "Beard," 18–19; Ratcliff, Beard, 10, 12.
                  
                     36
                            
                                New Castle
                            
                            Courier, May 8, 1891; L.E. Rogers to Phillips, December 17, 1957, Phillips
                            Collection; Fourteenth Commencement of the Knightstown High School …
                                May 25, 2892 (n.p., n.d.), copy in possession of Mr. and Mrs. R. Thomas Mayhill, 
                                Knightstown
                            , Ind.
               
                     purchased for his sons a struggling local weekly newspaper, the 
                        Knightstown
                     Sun. At the start, the Sun consisted largely of advertisements, local gossip, and
                    human-interest stories reprinted from magazines and larger city newspapers—it was a
                    "ragged little sheet," recalled a contemporary—but the new publishers
                    upgraded its coverage of national and international news.37 Clarence was active
                    in local Republican politics, and the paper took a bullish view of the present state and future
                    prospects of the country, pouring its editorial scorn upon "The Howl of the
                        Calamityite."38 Townsfolk remembered Charles as a "tall
                    red headed fellow … always very friendly … full of life and always interesting
                    to talk to." In the Sun office, he recalled, "I served my
                    apprenticeship with the pen—writing ‘heavy editorials,’ news
                    stories, and ‘locals.’" The experience was "delightful
                    enough" but largely "uneventful," the two "most
                    exciting" events being the introduction of electric street lighting and the construction of
                    the water works. Yet, while running about 
                        Knightstown
                     gathering news, he "learned a lot about human nature in the
                        process."39
            
            Despite the presence of a rival weekly, the long-established and entrenched 
                        Knightstown
                    
                    Banner, the brothers made the venture "pay." In 1893, they moved
                    into new and larger quarters and installed improved printing equipment. Within two years, however,
                    the restlessness that was so much part of his family legacy and of his own personality was pointing
                    Charles in a new direction. A 
                        Knightstown
                     Methodist preacher, convinced that he was wasting his talents in small-town journalism,
                    inspired him to go in the fall of 1895 to DePauw University in 
                        Greencastle
                    , Indiana, to study for the ministry.40
            
            Founded in 1837 under the name Indiana Asbury by the Indiana Conference of the Methodist Church,
                    DePauw in the 1890s remained permeated with evangelical piety. "The Bible," the
                    catalog prescribed, "is accepted as the unquestioned authority in all matters pertaining to
                    morals and religion." Students were required "to attend some one of the churches
                        
                  
                     37 Hazzard, Hazard's History, 11, 1090;
                            Beard letter, 
                                Knightstown
                            
                            Banner, July 23, 1948; Schmunk, "Beard,"
                            21–23. The few copies of the 
                                Knightstown
                            
                            Sun from this period that have survived are on microfilm in the Indiana
                            State Library.
                  
                     38
                            
                                New Castle
                            
                            Courier, May 6, 1892; 
                                Knightstown
                            
                            Sun, August [?], 1892.
                  
                     39 Carl A. Bundy to Phillips, January 21, 1958, Phillips Collection;
                            Charles Beard to Evelyn Waller, April 12, [1929], in possession of Evelyn Waller, 
                                Knightstown
                            , Ind.
                  
                     40 Herring, "Beard," 642; 
                                New Castle
                            
                            Courier, June 30, 1893; Schmunk, "Beard,"
                            24–25; Floyd B. Newby to Phillips, September 10, 1957; May D. Jackson to
                            Phillips, January 7, 1958, Phillips Collection.
               
                     once each Sabbath," to live in accordance with
                    "the best sentiment of Christian society," and to eschew "immoral
                    practices, such as gambling, drinking intoxicants, visiting saloons or like places." The
                    title of University was more honorific than real: the school was primarily an undergraduate
                    liberal-arts college. Yet the winds of change were felt even at DePauw. After his appointment in
                    1889, President John P.D. John had attempted to upgrade the faculty by bringing in persons who had
                    done graduate work abroad or in the new American universities, to broaden the curriculum by expanded
                    offerings in science and modern foreign languages, and to allow students wider latitude in course
                        requirements.41
            
            In accordance with the school's goal of striking a balance between "extreme
                    specialization on the one hand and extreme diffusion on the other" and imparting what the
                    catalog called "symetrical culture," students were required to take a minimum
                    number of courses from a basic core curriculum while simultaneously pursuing a "major line
                    of work along with a "minor" in "at least one other subject."42 Older than most of his fellow students and a young man in a hurry, Beard
                    managed by taking courses during the summers to complete the work for his bachelor of philosophy
                    degree after only three years. He majored in history, with a minor in political science. The rest of
                    his program consisted of English literature, rhetoric and oratory, general biology and zoology,
                    psychology, and two years of German, which he chose instead of the classical languages required for
                    the Bachelor of Arts degree. Although his official transcript has no record of his grades, Charles
                    had the reputation of the "brainiest man" on campus, was elected to Phi Beta Kappa
                    his senior year, graduated "with the highest honors of his class," and received
                    from his major professors glowing recommendations extolling his "very fine
                    ability," "zeal," "keen insight into truth," and
                    outstanding qualifications "for advanced work and original research."43
            
            
               
                  41
                        Fifty-Seventh Year-Book of DePauw University for the Year 1894–95 (
                            Greencastle
                        , 1895), 24, 11; George B. Manhart, DePauw Through the Years (2
                        vols., 
                            Greencastle
                        , 1962). I, 205–209. Clifton J. Phillips, "The Indiana Education
                        of Charles A. Beard," Indiana Magazine of History, LV (March, 1959),
                        1–15, is a valuable pioneering examination of his DePauw years.
               
                  42
                        Fifty-Seventh Year-Book, 22, 31–35; Fifty-Eighth
                            Year-Book of DePauw University for the Year 1895–96 (
                            Greencastle
                        , 1896). 22, 30–34.
               
                  43 Transcript, Beard Collection; Sixty-First Year-Book of
                            DePauw University for the Year 1898–99 (
                            Greencastle
                        , 1899), 90; DePauw Palladium, November 15, 1897; May 30, 1898;
                        recommendations by Professor Andrew Stephenson and James R. Weaver, n.d., folder 11, Beard
                        Collection.
            
            
            
               CHARLES A. BEARD
                        AND MARY RITER
                        AS DEPAUW STUDENTS
               
               Courtesy Archives of DePauw University, 
                            Greencastle
                        . Indiana.
            
            Perhaps the most important legacy of his years at DePauw was that it was there that he met his future
                    wife. Born in 1876, Mary Ritter was in her junior year at DePauw when Charles came to 
                        Greencastle
                    . Her father, Eli F. Ritter, was the son of 
                        North Carolina
                     Quakers who had migrated to Indiana. A Civil War veteran and DePauw alumnus, he was a
                    leading Methodist layman and prominent 
                        Indianapolis
                     lawyer. He was involved in local Republican politics and held the rank of colonel in
                    the Indiana National Guard. But his driving passion was the crusade against the liquor traffic, and
                    Mary grew up in an atmosphere imbued with a commitment to moral earnestness and uplift. She attended
                    the 
                        Indianapolis
                     public schools, graduating as valedictorian of her high school class.44 A pert and vivacious young lady, more socially outgoing than Charles, she was active in the
                    Kappa Alpha Theta sorority and her junior year was elected class president. The annual published
                        
                  
                     44 For fuller details, see Ann J. Lane, ed., Mary Ritter
                                Beard: A Source-book (
                                New York
                            , 1977), 11–19, and Barbara K. Turoff, Mary Beard as
                                Force in History (
                                Dayton
                            , 1979). 7–14. A biographical sketch of Eli F. Ritter is in Jacob
                            Piatt Dunn, Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                : The History, the Industries, the Institutions, and the People of a City of
                                Homes (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1910), 11, 774–76.
               
                     by the junior class describes her as "both practical
                    and good, well fitted to command."45 Campus legend ascribed the
                    beginning of their romance to Charles's rescue of her after her boat had capsized at a
                    fraternity picnic. Before long, she and Charles were regarded as paired.46
            
            In addition to this romantic attachment, the DePauw years marked a crucial phase in
                    Charles's intellectual evolution. He had his complaints about the academic program at
                    DePauw: he thought that there was not sufficient required work in English, and he found the library
                    facilities inadequate except in history and political science, areas in which a special library fee
                    was assessed upon students to build up departmental collections. There were among his instructors
                    men "who do nothing for the university but draw their salaries," plodding and
                    aloof figures who "might as well be wrapped in mummy clothes and in-tombed in the caverns
                    of the Egyptian pyramids."47 But he had the fortune to work with others
                    who were alive to the newer currents of scholarship, animated with the spirit of youth, and filled
                    with a contagious enthusiasm. These men set high standards for their students. The English history
                    course had, in addition to the textbooks, a "minimum requirement" of 1,500 pages
                    of collateral reading per term, while students in second-year German were expected to read Goethe
                    and Schiller, write a weekly "prose composition," and participate in
                    "frequent colloquial exercises." Beard extolled Professor Arthur R.
                    Priest's courses in rhetoric and oratory as "without equals in enabling students
                    to do clear, logical thinking on any question."48 He felt
                    "unending gratitude" to his German instructor, Henry B. Long-den, for giving him
                    his introduction "to that language and the world of thought which it unlocks" and
                    even more for Long-den's own example of "selfless service to the good
                    life." "I wish you would," he told an interviewer years later,
                    "mention the fact that the faculty at old DePauw did more for me than I could ever
                        tell."49
            
            
               
                  45
                        
                            Greencastle
                        
                        Daily Banner Times, December 9, 1895; 
                            Greencastle
                        
                        Democrat, December 14, 1895; DePauw University Mirage
                            '97 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1896), n.p.
               
                  46 Newby to Phillips, September 18, 1957, Phillips Collection; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, October 9, 1966; DePauw University Mirage '99 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1898), [275].
               
                  47
                  Palladium, March 28, February 28, 1898; November 15,
                        1897.
               
                  48
                        Fifty-Eighth Year-Book, 41–42; Fifty-Ninth Year-Book
                            of DePauw University for the Year 1896–97 (
                            Greencastle
                        , 1897), 40; Palladium, February 28, 1898. For Priest's
                        influence upon Beard, see Mary R. Beard to Curti, October 23, 1950; February 14, 1952, Curti
                        Papers.
               
                  49 Charles Beard to Henry B. Longden, April 14, 1931; January 10, [1937],
                        Beard Collection; Farrell, "Interview," 2.
            
            
            
               MARY RITER
               
               Courtesy Archives of DePauw University. 
                            Greencastle
                        , Indiana
            
            
            Pre-eminent among these faculty members was history professor Andrew Stephenson. A believer in the
                    motto "There is no excellence without great labor," Stephenson, a DePauw alumnus
                    who had received his Ph.D. from Johns Hopkins University, was feared—and
                    respected—by his students "for requiring an immense amount of work."
                    Beard took with him a freshman introductory survey of European history, followed by year-long
                    courses in English constitutional and political history and in American history. Reflecting the
                    dominant intellectual ethos of the time, Stephenson viewed history as an evolutionary process.
                    "Progressive recognition of social needs," he laid down in his European history
                    syllabus, "induces individual and associated activities, the aim, or at least the tendency,
                    of which is the establishment of new civilizations." He was a devotee of the Germanic
                    origins theory of Anglo-American political forms, and he listed as the "object" of
                    his English history course "to trace the origin and development of Anglo-Saxon
                    institutions, thus forming a base for a critical knowledge of our own history." A
                    Gladstonian liberal, he saw as the central theme in western man's historical development
                    "the problem of devising a civilization which shall combine two previously irreconcilable
                    conditions, viz.: First, stability of social order; Second, security to the individual of the full
                    measure of his ‘natural’ right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of
                        independence."50
            
            Stephenson was in many ways an innovator. Viewing history as "the crystallization of the
                    endeavor of man to control his environment," he dismissed "blank knowledge of
                    facts" as "a mere deposition of rubbish without cohesion." He accordingly
                    inculcated in his students the view that the historian's responsibility was to go beyond
                    telling what happened to analyze "the true moving forces" behind
                    "events." Stephenson himself in his Ph.D. dissertation, Public Lands
                        and Agrarian Laws of the Roman Republic, portrayed how class conflict between "the
                    patrician and plebian, the rich and the poor" bore "more or less upon every point
                    in Roman constitutional history."51 He similarly emphasized in his
                    introductory survey of European history the roles played by geographical, economic, social, and
                    intellectual factors in shaping political changes. His readings 
                  
                     50
                            Mirage '99, [39]; Andrew Stephenson, Syllabus of
                                Lectures in European History from the Fall of the Western Roman Empire to the Death of
                                Napoleon (
                        Middletown, Conn.
                     , 1893), 100; Fifty-Eighth Year-Book, 41.
                  
                     51 Andrew Stephenson, Syllabus of Lectures on European
                                History (
                                Terre Haute
                            , 1897), v-vi; Andrew Stephenson, Public Lands and Agrarian Laws of
                                the Roman Republic (
                                Baltimore
                            , 1891), 24, [3].
               
                     for the English history course included the epochal Short History of the English People, by John Richard Green, whose dictum that
                    "constitutional progress has been the result of social development" foreshadowed
                    what became popularly known as the New History.52 Befitting his Hopkins
                    training, Stephenson laid down as the guiding principle for his classes that "no
                    historian's statement shall be accepted as fact unless it can be substantiated by the
                    sources of authority." Thus, he demanded that his students go to the primary
                    sources—with Beard taking as his special project in the English history course the
                    translation of Bishop Stubbs's Select Charters.53
            
            Stephenson was a large, rather gruff man—-"a roaring lion often," a
                    student recalled. But he was so impressed with Beard's abilities that he played a key role
                    in encouraging Charles to go on for graduate work in history.54 Beard in turn
                    found Stephenson's courses so invaluable for conveying "knowledge of the origin,
                    growth and nature of the great political institutions of this country" that he lamented the
                    failure to make history a required subject. He echoed his teacher in eulogizing how "the
                    divine impulse of liberty" was "born in the German forests," carried by
                    "the Teuton" across the channel, preserved and expanded by the Magna Charta, the 
                        Puritan
                     Revolution, and the Glorious Revolution of 1688, given "a new birth"
                    on the North American continent, reaching its culmination in the American Revolution and the
                    Constitution, "the greatest document ever wrought from the experience of men."
                    Hailing the seminar method as "one of the best thought producers in the educational
                    world," he extolled as "the true method of study and research, accepting nothing,
                    believing nothing without investigation and verification." And, prophetically, the
                    "Historical Seminary" Charles took his last term was devoted to an investigation
                    of "the origin and adoption of 
                  
                     52 For his assigning Green, see Fifty-Eighth
                            Year-Book, 41; the quote is from John R. Green, A Short History of the
                                English People (2 vols., 
                                London
                            , 1960), I, xi. Re the significance of Green's work,
                            see G. P. Gooch, History and Historians in the Nineteenth Century, 2nd ed. (
                                London
                            , 1952), 329–34, and Burleigh Taylor Wilkins, "Frederick
                            York Powell and Charles A. Beard: A Study in Anglo-American Historiography and Social
                            Thought," American Quarterly, XI, (Spring, 1959).
                            30–31.
                  
                     53
                     Mirage '99, [40]; 
                                Greencastle
                            
                            Daily Banner Times, January 23, February 8, March 1, 1897; Charles Beard,
                            "Short Account of My Work," attached to Beard to Frederick Jackson Turner,
                            April 24, 1903, History Department Records (University of 
                                Wisconsin
                             Archives, 
                        Madison, Wise
                     .).
                  
                     54 Newby to Phillips, September 18, 1957; Raymond J. Wade to Phillips,
                            December 10, 1957, Phillips Collection; Stephenson recommendation, Beard Collection.
               
                     the Constitution of the 
                        United States
                    " through "a careful, comparative study of the sources."
                    Although no details survive, the experience appears to have been suficiently idol-shattering for him
                    to report in the editorial columns of the school newspaper that the class had been the scene of
                    "several dangerous explosions of ancient theories."55
            
            Although their fellow students regarded Stephenson as the dominant influence upon Charles Beard
                    during his years at DePauw,56 the Beards themselves gave more weight to the role
                    of Colonel James Riley Weaver. A Union Army veteran, Weaver received his S.T.B. degree from Garrett
                    Biblical Institute in 1867 and his master's from Alleghany College the following year, then
                    taught mathematics and military science at 
                        West Virginia
                     College. Thanks to the backing of his father-in-law, the politically influential
                    Indiana Methodist Bishop Matthew Simpson, he served from 1869 to 1885 as American counsul in
                            
                  Brindisi, Antwerp
               , and 
                        Vienna
                    . When he lost his position after the Democratic presidential victory, he joined the
                    DePauw faculty, serving from 1893 on as professor of political science. Weaver, Charles Beard
                    recalled five decades later, "had the bearing of the soldier, the courtesy of the diplomat,
                    and the spirit as well as the manner of the gentleman." Although he "never saw the
                    inside of a graduate school," he "certainly knew a lot about European languages,
                    politics, economics, law, literatures, and customs. … It was a joy to work under and with
                    him. … Memory of him and his ways is still precious to me." Weaver, Mary Beard
                    added, "taught him essentials which influenced definitely his interests and what might be
                    described, to no small degree, as his pers~nality."57
            
            Weaver defined the field of political science broadly to include not simply "the Science and
                    Philosophy of the State or society politically organized," but the nature
                    and workings of "organized society in general." Eschewing textbooks, he required
                    in his courses a "final thesis" demonstrating "original 
                  
                     55
                            Palladium, December 20, 1897; April 18, 1898; November 1, 1897; March 7,
                            1898; Fifty-Ninth Year-Book, 43; Palladium, February 7,
                            1898.
                  
                     56 Thomas W. Nadal to Phillips, July 29, 1957; Wilbur Helm to
                            Phillips, October 14, 1950; Josephine C. Ives to Phillips, October 8, 1957, Phillips
                            Collection.
                  
                     57 Charles Beard to Jacques Banun, January 12, 1945, Jacques Banun
                            Papers (Columbia University Library); Mary R. Beard to Russell J. Humbert, November 20,
                            1951, President's Office—Beard Correspondence, Humbert file (DePauw
                            University Archives). For biographical data on Weaver, see Merle Curti, "A Great
                            Teacher's Teacher," Social Education, XIII (October,
                            1949), 263–66. 274.
               
                     work," directed his students to the latest scholarship
                    in the Political Science Quarterly, the Annals of the American
                        Academy of Political and Social Science, and the Johns Hopkins University
                        Studies, and had his classes read the leading past and contemporary thinkers in politics,
                    sociology, economics, and anthropology. He shared the late-nineteenth-century positivist faith in
                    the possibility of discovering a science of society. "Were there no sequence in
                    society," he postulated, "legislation would be in vain; but as there is manifest
                    causation, the result is the effect of forces. Hence the necessity of discovering these forces,
                    their law of operation and method of co-operation." But he simultaneously warned that all
                    social thought, indeed all thinking, was influenced by "INDIVIDUAL BIASES:
                    "Educational Bias," "Bias of Patriotism or Anti-Patriotism,"
                    "Class Bias," "Political Biases," and "Theological or
                    Religious Bias." Thus, "all social theory and philosophy must be tested by
                    historical data properly interpreted. The Historical-Philosophic method is the only safeguard
                    against Ideology on the one hand and Empiricism on the other."58
            
            Rather than lectures, Weaver favored what he called "the laboratory method," by
                    which students were "co-laborers with the instructor in the investigation of specific
                    subjects." "The very germ of the method," he explained in his syllabi,
                    "consists in and presupposes an ability of each student to do individualized work.
                    … Too much help stultifies the intellect; it must be rather awakened to activity and
                    self-dependence." Nor did Weaver believe that all learning came from books. In line with
                    his program of assigning students "the task of investigating the sociological conditions of
                    the various cities and institutions of the state,"59 he arranged for
                    Beard to do work in "practical sociology" in the slums of 
                        Chicago
                     under the direction of the Epworth League Training School during the summer of 1896.
                    Upon his return, Charles reported that free silver had little appeal for the city's
                    laboring men and that nearly all were for McKinley and protection.60 But the
                    experience was a milestone in his own education: this first-hand exposure to the poverty and
                    degradation found in the nation's teeming metropolises 
                  
                     58
                            Fifty-Eighth Year-Book, 50; James R. Weaver, Syllabus of
                                Course II, Dep't of Political Science, on Sociology and Its Applications (
                                Terre Haute
                            , 1894), 2, 4, 10–12.
                  
                     59
                            Fifty-Eighth Year-Book, 51; Weaver, Sociology and Its
                                Applications, 1–2; James R. Weaver, Syllabus of Course III,
                                Dep't of Political Science, on Socialism and Reform (
                                Terre Haute
                            , 1896), 1–2.
                  
                     60
                            
                                Greencastle
                            
                            Daily Banner Times, June 19, July 10, 18, August 5, 13, 1896.
               
                     made a lasting impression. Living near and visiting Hull House,
                    he came into contact with the ferment of reformist, even radical, ideas that swirled around that
                    pioneer social settlement. "The Hull House," he recalled, "furnished a
                    forum for the free discussion of all the issues then surging up in American civilization but so
                    conveniently neglected in many closed circles and largely manhandled in the press."61
            
            The impact of these experiences was reinforced that fall when Beard took Colonel Weaver's
                    course on "Socialism and Reform." The course emphasized the role of the industrial
                    revolution in stimulating widespread unrest, traced the development of socialism from the utopians
                    through the First International, and explored the rising tide of protest in this country and abroad.
                    At a time when their works remained anathema in most American educational institutions, Weaver had
                    his students read Marx and Engehs.62 As an advocate of a social science based
                    upon ethics the Colonel was no admirer of "German materialism," but he
                    acknowledged the "Benefits from Socialistic Agitation" in awakening the
                    comfortable to the plight of the less fortunate. Weaver's own sympathies lay with what he
                    termed "Social Reform" as the "Golden mean between individualism and
                    socialism." In his teaching, he confided to Richard T. Ely, whose "Christian
                    sociology" he admired, "I have been putting in my best licks to
                    destroy the pernicious influence of that old 
                        Manchester
                     school." The crux of his message was that an industrial society required
                    "state interference"—such as labor and factory legislation, railroad
                    regulation, and control of monopolies—to promote "welfare of whole."
                    Accordingly, his reading assignments were heavily weighted to the American exponents of the social
                    gospel, the reformist-minded sociologists, and the new economists: Josiah Strong, 
                        Washington
                     Gladden, George D. Herron, John Bascom, Albion Small, Franklin P. Giddings, Frank
                    Lester Ward, Ely, and Simon Patten.63
            
            
               
                  61 Herring, "Beard," 642; Goldman,
                        "Origins," 235. Re the 
                            Chicago
                         and Hull House milieu, see Peter A. Soderbergh, "Charles A. Beard in 
                            Chicago
                        , 1896," Journal of the 
                                Illinois
                             State Historical Society, LXIII (Summer, 1970), 117–31; Charles
                        A. Beard and Mary R. Beard, The American Spirit: A Study of the Idea of
                            Civilization in the 
                                United States
                            
                   (
                            New York
                        , 1942), 477.
               
                  62 Mary R. Beard to Curti, November 6, 1949; October 13, 1950, Curti
                        Papers.
               
                  63 Weaver, Socialism and Reform, 35, 33, 39,
                        42–43; Weaver to Richard T. Ely, January 1, 1891, Weaver Collection (DePauw
                        University Archives). Beards daughter has a copy, inscribed "C.A. Beard 1895,"
                        of Richard T. Ely's Socialism: An Examination of Its Nature, Its Strength
                            and Its Weakness, with Suggestions for Social Reform (
                            London
                        , 1894).
            
            
            
               MEMBERS
                        OF
                        THE PHI GAMMA DELTA
                            FRATERNITY, WITH CHARLES A. BEARD SEATED
                        AT
                        THE FAR RIGHT
               
               Courtesy Archives of DePauw University. 
                            Greencastle
                        . Indiana
            
            Although a top student, Beard thought that education involved more than "merely class-room
                    grinding." "An ‘A’ on examination is no test of a
                    man's ability," he wrote contemptuously in arguing against basing election to Phi
                    Beta Kappa exclusively on grades. "Any thick-skull who is not too lazy to work can make a
                    high grade."64 And with his superabundance of energy, he played a
                    leading role in extracurricular affairs and campus student politics. He was active in the Phi Gamma
                    Delta fraternity. His fraternity brothers, Beard recalled, were an
                    "individualistic" and "cantankerous crew," all "full of
                    steam and conceit." They did not have a fraternity house, not only because of the expense
                    but because they "thought that the fellows who lived together all the time became as much
                    alike as crows." Instead, they rented a hall on the top of a bank building in town. There
                    they held parties and dances. But social life was relatively muted, partly because of the rather
                    straight-laced rules of decorum enforced by University authorities, partly because few of the
                    students had much 
                  
                     64
                            Palladium, November 22, 1897
               
                     money. The major activities at their meetings were recitations
                    and speeches by the members. Extracts from the fraternity minutes show Beard's topics
                    ranging from expounding his theory of God to "Theosophy the New Religion," from
                    "Myself to the "Organization of Society."65
            
            The dominant passion among the students and the pathway to campus prominence and leadership was
                    oratory and debate. From his first days on campus, Beard made his mark with his thorough
                    preparation, "excellent style," and "forcible manner."66 At a mock Republican convention in the spring of 1896, he stampeded the
                    delegates into nominating Indiana's favorite son Benjamin Harrison with what one local
                    newspaper called "a flood of pyrotechnics," another "the most impassioned
                    speech of the evening."67 While still a freshman, he was selected as
                    DePauw's representative to the state prohibition oratorical contest and then as Indiana
                    representative to the national competition, where he won second prize of fifty dollam.68 The following year he was unsuccessful in his bid for the most prized oratorical honor
                    at DePauw, the right to represent the school in the competitions for the annual interstate contest.
                    But he led the DePauw team to victory in the debate with its Indiana archrival, Earlham College, on
                    the question, "Resolved, That Employers should not Recognize Associations of
                    Employees." Avoiding the rhetorical flourishes and high-blown phraseology so popular among
                    college debaters of the time, he presented a tightly reasoned and thoroughly documented exposition
                    drawn largely from official reports and documents in this country and abroad showing how employer
                    recognition of unions promoted "industrial peace." "He has," the
                    Earlham hometown newspaper acknowledged, "a fine bearing, is a forcible speaker, and very
                    clear headed and possessed."69
            
            
               
                  65
                        
                            Greencastle
                        
                        Daily Banner Times, October 14, 1896; 
                            Greencastle
                        
                        Evening Democrat, October 15, 1896; Farrell, "Interview,"
                        3–4; extracts from the Phi Gamma Delta minutes, folder 1, Phillips Collection.
               
                  66 Extracts from Phi Gamma Delta minutes; Helm to Phillips, October 14,
                        1957; Wade to Phillips, December 10, 1957, Phillips Collection.
               
                  67
                        
                            Greencastle
                        
                        Daily Banner Times, May 20, 1896; 
                            Greencastle
                        
                        Democrat, May 23, 1896.
               
                  68
                        Mirage '97, n.p.; 
                            Greencastle
                        
                        Democrat, January 11, February 22, May 30, 1896; 
                            Greencastle
                        
                        Daily Banner Times, February 25, 27, April 24, May 13, 22, 26–27,
                        1896.
               
                  69
                        
                            Greencastle
                        
                        Daily Banner Times, November 14, 1896; DePauw Weekly,
                        November 17, 1896. On the 1897 debate, see DePauw Weekly, March 2, April 6,
                        13, 1897; 
                            Greencastle
                        
                        Daily Banner Times, April 6, 9–10, 12, 1897; the text of the debate
                        is printed in The Earthamite, April 17, 1897.
            
            
            "Beard," a fellow student recalled, "was quite shy socially, probably
                    didn't care much for social life." "College was serious business for
                    us," he told an interviewer from his old fraternity—and he was more serious than
                    most. "Oh God!" the student annual exclaimed of him his freshman year, "a
                    beast that wants discourse of reason."70 There were those who regarded
                    him as too brash and pushy. The student yearbook, the DePauw Mirage, was filled
                    with jibes about Beard as the school's "Principal Applyer of Nerve," as
                    looking for "some one to tell people just how great a man I really am," and as
                    wanting "to run the college."71 But his abilities won the
                    respect of most of the students. His freshman year, his classmates voted him class prophet;
                    sophomore year, class president; and his third year, class orator.72 During the
                    1896–1897 academic year, he served as associate editor of the student newspaper, the DePauw Weekly. When that publication was reorganized in the fall under the name
                        DePauw Palladium, Beard, because of his previous newspaper experience at 
                        Knightstown
                    , was selected editor-in-chief. Under his management the paper was put on a paying
                        basis.73 More importantly, he succeeded in making the journal—and
                    himself—into a mover and shaker in campus affairs. Beard, the Mirage
                    reported, half-sarcastically and half-admiringly, was expert in the "best methods to be
                    employed in handling a conservative faculty, of instigating revolts and of crystallizing and
                    directing public sentiment."74
            
            Upon taking over the helm of the Palladium, Beard set down his editorial credo:
                    "It will be the policy of the present management to ‘hew to the line and let the
                    chips fall where they will.’ … It is our purpose to tell the truth, regardless
                    of opinions or consequences." Beard did not always live up to this credo. There was much in
                    his editorials that was typical of student newspapers past and present: boosterism in behalf of
                    DePauw's football and baseball teams, exhortations in support of the school's
                    representative in debate contests, laments over the decline of class spirit, support for students
                    involved in town-and-gown scrapes with the 
                        Greencastle
                     authorities, and 
                  
                     70 Ives to Phillips, October 8, 1957, Phillips Collection; Farrell,
                            "Interview," 4; Mirage '97, n.p.
                  
                     71 Helm to Phillips, October 14, 1957, Phillips Collection; Mirage- '97, n.p.; Mirage '99, [270,
                            2881.
                  
                     72
                            DePauw Weekly. October 8. 1895: 
                                Greencastle
                            
                            Daily Banner Times. October 1, 17, 1895; October 5, 1896; Palladium, October 25, 1897.
                  
                     73
                            DePauw Weekly, October 6, 1896; 
                                Greencastle
                            
                            Daily Banner Times, October 1, 7, 15, 1897; Mirage
                                '99, [224]; Palladium, May 17, 30, 1898.
                  
                     74
                            Mirage '99, [259].
               
                     appeals for more generous support from the college's
                    alumni and the state's Methodists. His editorial columns were studded with what a
                    disgruntled reader dismissed as "glittering generalities" and such
                    "stereotyped imitations of Ram's Horn proverbs and aphorisms" as
                    "Merit and not money wins in De-Pauw," "The seeker of knowledge is never
                    satisfied," "Society is full of parasites who take and never give," and
                    "Those who succeed in life's contest never haul down their colors."75
            
            President John had resigned in the spring of 1895 because of the financial crisis facing the
                    institution. Beard gave his successor, Hillary Gobin, generally high marks for his "efforts
                    to advance the interests of the university" in the face of "difficult
                    circumstances," for his sympathetic attitude toward students, and for his "liberal
                    yet firm" stance in matters of discipline.76 Reflecting his 
                        Spiceland
                     upbringing, Beard bewailed the tendency in current fiction to "too much
                    catering to the passions of the low and sensual." And he blasted Walt Whitman for
                    "insulting every sense of decency, purity and modesty." Nor did he feel any
                    sympathy with those who were demanding further liberalization of the campus moral code.
                    "The written rules of DePauw," he editorialized, "are few and embody such
                    principles as every man who hopes to achieve anything in life can easily adopt. … This is
                    a Methodist institution, supported and endorsed by the church, and those students who come here
                    should be willing to abide by the rules and ideals upon which the university was founded. The man
                    who turns his room into a poker den, or spends his time at a saloon has no business in DePauw. We do
                    not need him. The institution was founded for men who want an education, and who want to prepare the
                    way for citizenship in this great nation."77
            
            Yet Beard was enough of a maverick to win a reputation as a troublemaker and rebel. He was vocal in
                    assailing attempts by "a few men on the faculty" to impose "strait-jacket
                    puritanical principles." He criticized professors who wasted students' time by
                    their lack of "system about their work." He was quick to take school authorities
                    to task for what he regarded as "inconsistent and impolitic" enforcement of
                    academic regulations. He loudly proclaimed that DePauw must be "a modern 
                  
                     75
                            Palladium, October 18, 1897; November 8, October 18, 25, November 1, 15,
                            1897.
                  
                     76 For the problems facing the institution at the time, see Manhart,
                                DePauw Through the Years, I, 209–15. Re
                            Beard on Gobin: Palladium, October 25, 1897; February 28, 1898.
                  
                     77
                            Palladium, November 22, 1897; February 14, 1898.
               
                     university, untainted by any narrowness of sectarianism and
                    untrammeled by religious tenets." He proclaimed that a new "critical and
                    scientific" spirit was at work that would, with "blasts of iconoclasm,"
                    inaugurate "a thought revolution which will shake the foundations of even rock-founded
                        institutions."78 In a satirical account of an imaginary class
                    meeting, the Mirage pictured Beard declaiming: 
                        The time has come, ladies and gentlemen, the time has come. The old traditions and fossilized
                            methods of the past must be smashed into smitherines and consigned to chaos. Let there now
                            be ushered in an era of unlimited, unqualified and untrammeled freedom! Away with a
                            moss-back faculty, moth-eaten orthodoxy, and give us true democracy! I move you that we
                            declare war upon all things that at present exist!79
                  
                    
            
            As befitting his family heritage, Beard's revolt against orthodoxy was most striking in the
                    religious sphere. He apparently had entered DePauw with the idea of preparing for the ministry.
                    Classmates remembered how he dressed in ministerial style when he first arrived on campus. He was
                    elected secretary of the campus Young Men's Christian Association; he was active in the
                    college's prohibition association; and he preached in local churches, with one newspaper
                    account even misidentifying him as the "Rev. Chas. A. Beard."80 At the close of his freshman year, he went as a Y.M.C.A. delegate to the Lake
                            
                  Geneva, Wisconsin
               , summer Bible school, and the following fall he was a member
                    of a Y.M.C.A. student "prayer band" that held meetings in nearby towns.81 But his religious zeal appears to have faded despite—perhaps in
                    reaction against—the strongly evangelical atmosphere at DePauw. In his Palladium editorials, he deplored the absence of Robert Ingersoll's writings in
                    the local libraries, ridiculed those who were so "strongly sectarian that they would not go
                    to heaven in the boat of any other church if they were shipwrecked on the island of
                    despair," and protested against holding the annual campus revival meeting, an event which
                    he characterized as an exercise 
                  
                     78 Newby to Phillips, September 10, 18, 1957, Phillips Collection; Palladium, December 6, 1897; January 10, February 21, 1898; October 25,
                            1897; March 7, 1898.
                  
                     79
                            Mirage '99, [171].
                  
                     80 Newby to Phillips, September 10, 1957, Phillips Collection; Mirage '97, n.p.; DePauw Weekly, November 12,
                            1895; March 24, 1896; 
                                Greencastle
                            
                            Daily Banner Times, October 9, 1895; March 18, April 18, 20, 1896; 
                                Greencastle
                            
                            Democrat, April 25, 1896.
                  
                     81
                            
                                Greencastle
                            
                            Democrat, June 6, 1896; 
                                Greencastle
                            
                            Evening Democrat, October 5, 1896; 
                                Greencastle
                            
                            Daily Banner Times, December 30, 1896; DePauw Weekly,
                            January 5, 1897.
               
                     in "mental pathology" that had "no
                    place in a modern institution of learning." "Religion that is deep and abiding,
                    that is the expression of man's inmost spiritual aspirations, religion that will be the
                    predominant note of man's daily life," he admonished, "comes as the
                    product of long and deliberate thought. It cannot come from a mental delirium of mingled awe,
                    superstition, fear. … "82
            
            In line with the Palladium's political nonpartisanship, Beard rarely
                    commented directly upon the major public issues of the day. His most extensive remarks were
                    occasioned by the crisis leading up to the Spanish-American War. "If the matter is left for
                    settlement by diplomacy," he fulminated in the aftermath of the sinking of the 
                        
                            Maine
                        
                    , "more red tape and time will be exhausted than the patriotic patience of the people
                    can bear." When war came, he trumpeted in his column the popular slogans of the day:
                    "Remember the 
                        Maine
                    !"; "We have raised our flag and it is never to come down till 
                        Cuba
                     is free"; "
                        Cuba
                     Libre!"83 He himself was sufficiently caught up by the war
                    fever that he even offered to organize a volunteer company. But, he recalled, "they
                    wouldn't take us. They had more men than they had embalmed beef." Perhaps to salve
                    his own disappointment, he began to sound in his editorials a different note. Congratulating the
                    DePauw students upon "the absence of the cheap patriotism and jingoism which have been so
                    prevalent at many other institutions," he found "beyond comprehension"
                    how "an intelligent, rational man can actually be anxious for war … a gory path
                    to glory." And he took to task students who abandoned their schooling to enlist with the
                    reminder that the "duties of peace are as sacred as those of
                        war."84
            
            Many students remembered Beard as "radical," even "socialistic,"
                    in his political views.85 Although isolated geographically, DePauw was not
                    insulated from the tumults and strains in American society in the 1890s. "Believe
                    me," Beard reminisced in the late 1930s, "we had then about all the issues that
                    perplex us now." And there is no question that he had begun shifting away from the
                    Federalist-Whig-Republican tradition of his father. When in the fall of 1896 William Jennings Bryan
                    carried his crusade to 
                        Greencastle
                    , Beard was "deeply stirred" 
                  
                     82
                            Palladium, October 18, December 6, 1897; March 14, 28, 1898.
                  
                     83
                            Ibid., March 7, April 25, 1898.
                  
                     84 Herring, "Beard," 642; Palladium, April 25, May 2, 1898.
                  
                     85 Nadal to Phillips, July 29, 1957; Orin Demotte Walker to Phillips,
                            [August 22, 1957); Newby to Phillips, September 10, 18, 1957; Mary Towne Lockwood to
                            Phillips, October 18, 1957, Phillips Collection.
               
                     by the Great Commoner's "independent opinions
                    and power."86 In his own speech at the trials to choose
                    DePauw's representative to the interstate oratorical contest, he coupled his attacks upon
                    "the evils that were wrought by rum and the rum shop" with a denunciation of
                    "the ill-used power of trust and monopoly."87 He bemoaned how
                    the "old healthiness and heart-ness [sic] of social life is dying out, and a cold, hollow
                    and empty-souled aristocracy is taking their place." In his 1898 
                        Washington
                    's Birthday Address he painted a graphic picture of the social ills demanding
                    "reform": political bossism and corruption, widespread unemployment and poverty,
                    "hell-hole tenements, filled with misery and crime." He even editorially ridiculed
                    politicians who "bow down before the constitution of the 
                        United States
                     as though it were sacred while history tells us that this crowned constitution with its
                    halo has been the bulwark of every great national sin—from slavery to
                        monopoly."88
            
            Yet too much should not be read into such remarks. Beard's thinking during these years
                    remained in a state of flux, aggravated by more than a dash of undergraduate bombast. He was hardly
                    a socialist. On the contrary, he blasted a visiting "Christian communist" and
                    "revolutionist" for stirring up "the masses by a vision of an
                    unattainable state of society." The failure of innumerable utopian experiments had
                    demonstrated, he concluded, "that communistic visions are only the nightmares of disturbed
                        dreamers."89 Even what he meant by "reform"
                    remained ill-defined and amorphous. In his 1897 debate with Earlham, he defended labor unionization;
                    in his losing effort the following year he supported an income tax based upon the ability to pay.
                    But a question remains about how far his arguments represented personal convictions rather than the
                    artifices of the skilled debater. The DePauw student newspaper's report on the income tax
                    debate noted that Beard was placed in the "difficult position of defending the
                    practicability of the income tax" when "there was evidently considerable doubt in
                    his own mind." His solution for the ills he so graphically portrayed in his 
                        Washington
                    's Birthday address never went beyond vague generalities about "a
                    resistless moral appeal, striking the minds of men with the truth of God," never 
                  
                     86 Farrell, "Interview," 4; Mary R. Beard, Making of Charles A. Beard, 15; for Bryan's speaking there, see 
                                Greencastle
                            
                            Democrat, October 24, 1896.
                  
                     87
                            DePauw Weekly, November 17, 1896.
                  
                     88
                            Palladium, December 20, 1897; April 18, May 17, 1898.
                  
                     89
                            Ibid., January 17, 1898.
               
                     transcended moralistic calls "to apply the principles
                    of Jesus to all our great social problems."90
            
            Perhaps what most clearly emerges from a reading of his youthful editorializing is the tension that
                    existed then in Beard—and would continue throughout his life—between
                    scholarship and activism, between head and heart. On the one hand, he saw himself as a hard-headed
                    realist, an apostle of a "political economy based upon actual facts and not
                    ideals"; on the other, he extolled as the duty of the "true scholar" to
                    "uplift and inspire a burden-stricken humanity. … The educational world is not
                    separated from the real world, and the student must stand in the very midst of social
                    conflicts." Happily for Beard, as he prepared to leave DePauw he found resolution of this
                    tension in the comforting faith that the advance of knowledge automatically promoted human welfare.
                    "It is," Beard wrote in his final Palladium editorial, 
                        the truth that makes men free. If the truth tears down every church and government under the
                            sun—let the truth be known. And this truth only will be known when men cease to
                            swallow the capsules of ancient doctors of divinity and politics, and when men begin to seek
                            the truth in the records of history, politicr and religion and science. Let the new school
                                triurnph!91
                  
                    
            
            When Charles Beard graduated from DePauw in 1898, his was still a mind in the making. In the future,
                    he would continue to grow and develop under the influence of new experiences, further reading, and
                    fuller reflection. His dedication to the pursuit of what he would call "the Socratic
                    elenchus"—"new facts … constantly challenging old mental
                    patterns and imagery"—remained a lifelong quest. "When I come to the
                    end," he confessed in a mood of reflection, "my mind will still be beating its
                    wings against the bars of thought's prison."92 But these first
                    twenty-four years laid the basis for the achievements that were to come. Already could be discerned
                    that skeptical, inquiring intellect with its delight in deflating pretensions and refuting the
                    conventional wisdom, that restless search for understanding man and society, which would be the
                    hallmark of the mature Beard. And knowledge would remain for the later Beard as for the
                    undergraduate editorialist a weapon in the 
                  
                     90
                            The Earlhamite, April 17, 1897; April 15, 1898; Palladium, April 11, 18, May 2, 1898.
                  
                     91
                            Palladium, January 17, 1898; October 25, November 8, 1897; May 17, 1898.
                  
                     92 Charles A. Beard, "Political Science," in Wilson
                            Gee, ed., Research in the Social Sciences: Its Fundamental Methods and
                                Objectives (
                                New York
                            , 1929), 287; Goldman, "Beard: An Impression," 7.
               
                     struggle for the good. The philosopher Irwin Edman, who took
                    Beard's course in American government at Columbia University, recalled how he conveyed to
                    his students not simply his "passionate concern for an understanding of the realities of
                    goverment," but his "ideal of government: the liberation of the energies of
                    men." "We work the whole time," his wife confided to a
                    friend,"… because we want to know and say what we think we know … to
                    help the human race to realize its highest potentialities."93
            
            Beard's dominating passion and the central theme of his career was his search for the
                    fulfillment of "the promise of American life." In the depths of the Great
                    Depression he pictured in rhapsodic terms the America of his dreams: a land "without the
                    degradation of poverty and unemployment on the one side or the degradation of luxury, rivalry, and
                    conspicuous waste on the other."94 His defense of
                    "continentals" reflected his conviction that the 
                        United States
                     was a new and distinctive civilization, without the feudal past, class bitterness, and
                    ancient hatreds of the Old World, with its own special genius and destiny.95
                    Thus, the major thrust of his later years as a historian was to delineate this country's
                    "unique features in origins, substance and development." The complex of beliefs
                    and values that Beard apotheosized as the American "idea of civilization" embraced
                    "respect for life, for human worth, for the utmost liberty compatible with the social
                    principle, for equality of rights and opportunities, for the dignity and utility of labor, for the
                    rule of universal participation in the work and benefits of society."96
                    Although many influences converged to shape this vision, a major inspiration remained the legacy of
                    his Indiana upbringing. "Life was hard," Beard wrote in the late 1930s about his
                    boyhood world, "but as I recall it all through the mist of time it seems beautiful against
                    the wars, hatred, and intolerance of this age; and the best of the old days I should like to
                    recover, for America and for the world."97
            
            
               
                  93 Irwin Edman, Philosopher's Holiday (
                            New York
                        , 1938), 131; Mary R. Beard to Rosika Schwimmer, July 25, 1936, Schwimmer-Lloyd
                        Collection (
                            New York
                         Public Library, 
                            New York
                        ).
               
                  94 Charles A. Beard, "That Promise of American Life,"
                            New Republic, LXXXI (February 6, 1935). 351; Charles A. Beard,
                        "The World As I Want It," Forum and Century, XCI (June,
                        1934). 333.
               
                  95 See, for example, Beards speech before the Progressive Education
                        Association, 
                            New York
                        
                        Times, October 22, 1939.
               
                  96 Beard and Beard, The American Spirit,
                        672–73.
               
                  97
                        Souvenir Booklet of the 
                                Spiceland
                             Centennial, 15.
            
         
         
         
            Agricultural Tenancy in the Nineteenth–Century Middle West: The Historiographical
                    Debate
            
                    Donald L. Winters*
               
                
            The history of agricultural tenancy has attracted considerable attention and provoked wide
                    disagreement among scholars. Some have seen tenancy as the unfortunate but entirely natural result
                    of the retreat of the American frontier and the disappearance of unoccupied, arable land. Others
                    have claimed that a misguided and ineptly administered federal land policy enabled evil moneyed
                    interests to impose tenancy upon helpless farmers. Still others have argued that the institution was
                    a rational and socially desirable adjustment to the conditions of a maturing agricultural economy.
                    Not only was tenancy an unfortunate or cruel condition for poor farmers, according to its critics,
                    it was also a situation from which few were able to extricate themselves. Those, on the other hand,
                    who take a kinder view of the institution have held that it often served as a rung on an
                    agricultural ladder leading to farm ownership. Some have asserted that the terms of rental
                    agreements were arbitrarily dictated by landlords, while others have insisted that they were
                    understandable and salutary responses to prevailing economic circumstances. Finally, the debate has
                    encompassed the implications of tenancy for the economy as a whole. If some scholars have seen the
                    institution as inherently inefficient and detrimental to economic growth, others have claimed that
                    renters were as productive as their landowner counterparts and that tenancy in fact enhanced growth.
            Although scholars have been concerned with tenancy throughout the 
                        United States
                    , they have focused primarily on 
                  
                     * Donald L. Winters is professor of history at Vanderbilt
                            University. He is the author of Farmers Without Farms: Agricultural Tenancy in
                                Nineteenth-Century 
                                    Iowa
                                
                      (
                        Westport, Conn.
                     , 1978). During 1979–1980
                            a version of this article was presented to the economic history seminars at the University
                            of Strathclyde and the University of beds and to the annual convention of the British
                            Agricultural History Society. The author wishes to acknowledge the assistance of Professor
                            Jacque Voegeli and of an anonymous referee in revising it for publication.
               
                     the South and Middle West. Several works dealing with
                    share-cropping in the postbellum South have appeared over the past decade.1 They
                    offer provocative and often conflicting explanations of the increase in tenancy in the years
                    following the Civil War, of the role of race in the implementation and development of the
                    sharecropping system, of the relationship between tenant and landlord, and of the economic effect of
                    farm renting. Harold D. Woodman has recently published a perceptive critique of these works2 A comparable attempt to deal with the literature on the Middle West seems in
                    order.
            Before the twentieth century, scholars took little notice of farm tenancy. Some, to be sure, called
                    attention to its existence, but none sought to understand its causes and implications. However, the
                    development around the turn of the century of the field of agricultural economics, with its emphasis
                    on the systematic study of economic questions relating to agriculture, stimulated scholarly interest
                    in the institution.3 Staff members in the agricultural colleges and experiment
                    stations and in the Department of Agriculture's Bureau of Agricultural Economics (BAE) were
                    concerned over the high incidence of tenancy, first reported by the federal census in 1880, and its
                    meaning for American agriculture. This concern led to the publication of two studies of tenancy at
                    the national level by members of the BAE and several state studies by economists in the agricultural
                        colleges.4
            
            A major objective of the agricultural economists was to understand the determinants of farm tenancy
                    and its alarming 
                  
                     1 Joseph D. Reid, Jr., "Sharecropping As An Understandable
                            Market Response: The Post-Bellum South," Journal of Economic
                            History, XXXIII (March, 1973), 106–30; Robert Higgs, Competition and Coercion: Blacks in the American Economy, 1865–1914 (
                                New York
                            , 1977); Stephen J. DeCanio, Agriculture in the Portobello South:
                                The Economics of Production and Supply (
                        Cambridge, Mass.
                     ,
                            1974); Roger L. Ransom and Richard Sutch, One Kind of Freedom: The Economic
                                Consequences of Emancipation (
                                New York
                            , 1977).
                  
                     2 Harold D. Woodman, "Sequel to Slavery: The New History
                            Views the Postbellum South," Journal of Southern History, XLIII
                            (November, 1977), 523–54.
                  
                     3 Henry C. Taylor and Anne Dewees Taylor, The Story of
                                Agricultural Economics in the 
                                    United States
                                , 1840–1932 (Ames, 1952); Donald L. Winters, Henry Cantwell Wallace as Secretary of Agriculture, 1921–1924 (
                                Urbana
                            , 1970).
                  
                     4 E. A. Goldenweiser and L. E. Truesdell, Farm Tenancy in
                                the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                Washington, D.C.
                            , 1924); L. C. Gray et al., "Farm Ownership and Tenancy," US.
                            Department of Agriculture Yearbook, 1923 (
                                Washington, D.C.
                            , 1924); William Bennett Bizzell, Farm Tannery in the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                Texas
                             Agricultural Experiment Station Research Bulletin No. 278, College Station,
                            1921); Charles Leslie Stewart, Land Tenure in the 
                                    United States
                                 with Special Reference to 
                                    Illinois
                                
                      (University of 
                                Illinois
                             Studies in the Social Sciences, Vol. V, no. 3, 
                                Urbana
                            , 1916).
               
                     rise in the Middle West, long considered the preserve of the
                    independent, landowning farmer. By 1880 the tenancy rate in this region had already reached 21
                    percent of all operators, and by 1920 it was approaching 30 percent. From analyses of published
                    census data the economists concluded that tenancy was a recent development in American agriculture.
                    They suggested that whatever renting there might have been during the earlier
                    periods—they could only guess at its extent because of the absence of census figures for
                    the time before 1880—-could be attributed to unusual local circumstances and to the
                    ineptitude of a small but unrepresentative group of operators. In light of the abundance of
                    unoccupied land until near the end of the nineteenth century and of the federal
                    government's liberal land disposal policy, the BAE economists reasoned that "there
                    was little necessity for farmers to obtain land by renting it from others. …"5 Alluding to the Homestead Act, under which the federal government gave land to
                    prospective settlers, they maintained that "the number and proportion of tenants doubtless
                    remained small so long as free land was available."6 It was only with
                    the disappearance of unoccupied, arable land and the attendant increase in land prices that tenancy
                    became a common feature of American agriculture. This was a lamentable but wholly unavoidable and
                    understandable development.
            Beginning in the depression years of the 1930s and continuing into the postwar decade, a group of
                    historians of the federal domain aggressively challenged the economists' explanation of the
                    rise of midwestern tenancy. Paul W. Gates, the dean of the public land historians, has steadfastly
                    contended over the past forty-five years that tenants appeared in large numbers in the Midwest well
                    before the country's arable land was completely taken up. He argued that an
                    "incongruous 
                  
                     5 Gray, "Farm Ownership and Tenancy," 507.
                  
                     6 Goldenweiser and Truesdell, Farm Tenancy in the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , 21.
                  
                     7 See, for example, the following works by Paul Wallace Gates:
                            "The Homestead Law in an Incongruous Land System," American
                                Historical Review, XLI (July, 1936), 652–81; "The Role of the
                            Land Speculator in Western Development," Pennsylvania Magazine of
                                History and Biography, LXVI (July, 19421, 314–33; "Land Policy
                            and Tenancy in the 
                                Prairie
                             States," Journal of Economic History, I (May, 1941),
                            60–82; "Land Policy and Tenancy in the 
                                Prairie
                             Counties of Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History,
                            XXXV (March, 1939), 1–26; "Frontier Landlords and Pioneer
                            Tenants," Journal of the 
                                    Illinois
                                 State Historical Society, XXXVIII (June, 1945), 143–206;
                            "Frontier Estate Builders and Farm Laborers," in Walker D. Wyman and
                            Clifton B. Kroeber, eds., The Frontier in Perspective (
                                Madison
                            , 1957), 143–63; The 
                                    Illinois
                                 Central Railroad and Its Colonization Work (
                        Cambridge, Mass.
                     , 1934); The 
                                    Wisconsin
                                 Pine Lands of Cornell University; A Study in Land Policy and Absentee
                                Ownership (
                                Ithaca
                            , 1943). Several of Gates's articles are reprinted in his Landlords and Tenants on the 
                                    Prairie
                                 Frontier: Studies in American Land Policy (
                                Ithaca
                            , 1973).
               
                    
                    
                  PERCENT
                            OF INDIANA FARMS OPERATED
                            BY TENANTS, 1940
                  Reproduced from G.G Quackenbush and O.G Lloyd, Farm Tenure In Indiana By
                                Type-of-Farming Areas (Purdue University Agricultural Experiment Station Bulletin
                            No 488. 
                                Lafayette
                            . 1943). 8.
                land system" was the principal cause of the early introduction and rapid growth
                    of farm renting in the nineteenth century. That system, by permitting unlimited purchase by a single
                    buyer, encouraged speculators, land companies, and large landholders to buy up massive blocks of the
                    national domain and to drive up land prices by withholding their property from sale. Even the
                    free-land principle of the Homestead Act was perverted through incompetent and dishonest
                    administration to the point that land monopolization was in fact enhanced. Huge grants to railroad
                    and canal companies allowed them to follow similar practices.
            Gates's investigation of the operations of a number of large speculators and landholders
                    convinced him that such tactics fostered tenancy in several ways. While withholding their land from
                    sale, speculators and internal improvement companies normally rented it out to pioneer farmers,
                    usually with the stiulation that the tenant pay the taxes and make specific  improvements. Secondly, once the original owners had forced up the
                    price to a level that would produce the desired profit, many farmers could not afford the land and
                    had to become or remain tenants. Finally, some large purchasers of government land retained their
                    property and formed extensive tenant-operated estates. Clearly, according to Gates,
                    "tenancy got its start in the Middle West as a result of the activities of land speculators
                    and moneylenders."8 This was not a latter-day development: "It
                    was apparent before 1880 that tenancy had already became [sic] fastened on the prairie States and
                    was rapidly growing."9 A federal policy that enabled speculators,
                    transportation companies, and large estate-holders to monopolize land, Gates charged,
                    "bears its responsibility for this early appearance and rapid growth of
                        tenancy."10
            
            Gates also offered a companion thesis to his speculator interpretation. The increase in land values
                    occasioned by land monopolization rendered farmers vulnerable to loan sharks and frontier bankers.
                    To buy land at inflated prices, farmers had to go deeply into debt and pay the exorbitant interest
                    rates demanded by lenders. Unable to meet their mortgage obligations—Gates calls them
                    "usurious demands"—from the income of the farm, especially during
                    recurrent periods of low agricultural prices, many found their "contracts cancelled and
                    their equity confiscated." The only recourse for the victims of this unfair credit system,
                    at least if they wished to remain in farming, was to accept tenancy. In this way, according to
                    Gates, the land monopolists and moneylenders combined "to depress many farm owners into the
                    tenant class."11
            
            For Gates, then, tenancy was not unavoidable, as the agricultural economists had claimed. Rather, it
                    was the bitter fruit of an unwise land policy that failed to realize its intended
                    purpose—a democratic system of landownership. Commenting on the operation of the federal
                    land system in Indiana, Gates charged that it "had not established democratic farm
                    ownership but had produced a system much at variance with American democratic ideals."12 The intrusion of land speculators between the government and actual settlers
                    had undermined the goal of creating a class of independent, landowning farmers. Had the 
                  
                     8 Gates, "The Role of the Land Speculator in Western
                            Development," 327.
                  
                     9 Gates, "Land Policy and Tenancy in the 
                                Prairie
                             States," 80.
                  
                     10 Gates, "Frontier Landlords and Pioneer Tenants,"
                            205.
                  
                     11 Gates, "The Role of the Land Speculator in Western
                            Development," 327; "Frontier Landlords and Pioneer Tenants," 205.
                  
                     12 Gates, "Land Policy in the 
                                Prairie
                             Counties of Indiana," 26.
               
                     government made it more difficult for moneyed interests and
                    easier for settlers to acquire federal land, the incidence of renting would have been insignificant
                    in the nineteenth-century Middle West.
            The Gates thesis has attracted a number of ardent and capable proponents since the 1930s. Historians
                    Ray Allen Billington, Yasuo Okada, Roy M. Robbins, and Fred A. Shannon, and agricultural economist
                    William G. Murray, among others, have echoed Gates's pronouncements on midwestern tenancy.
                    In the bibliographical essay of his book, The Farmer's Last Frontier,
                    published in 1945, Shannon commented approvingly: "more intelligent comment than is to be
                    found elsewhere on land policies since 1860 is contained in a number of scattered articles by Paul
                    Wallace Gates."13 Like Gates, he saw foreclosure tenancy as the cruel
                    fate of pioneer farmers who responded to "brief periods of prosperity" by moving
                    west and investing hard-won money in land and equipment only to become "victims of the land
                    monopolists" with the inevitable price decline that followed.14
                    Although more balanced than some in their assessment of the land speculator, Billington and Robbins,
                    also writing in the 1940s, reserved for him the lion's share of the blame for the increase
                    in midwestern tenancy. Reflecting on the failure of the land policy to check the excesses of
                    speculators, Billington remarked in his classic book on westward expansion that "half a
                    billion acres were surrendered to monopolists in an era when orators boasted the 
                        United States
                     was giving land free to its proverty-stricken masses!"15
                    Most recently, Okada, the last Gates doctoral student at Cornell University, defended his
                    mentor's interpretation in a careful study (published in 1971) of the settlement and early
                    history of 
                  Gage County, Nebraska
               . If Okada's land speculator was not as villainous or
                    as one-dimensional as Gates's, he still was "clearly responsible for the
                    introduction of tenancy into the county."16 Murray's
                    contribution to a volume commemorating 
                        Iowa
                    's centenary in 1946 took issue with his fellow economists of a generation
                    earlier, maintaining that despite the grand objectives of the federal land policy, tenancy arrived
                    soon after 
                  
                     13 Fred A. Shannon, The Farmer's Last Frontier:
                                Agriculture, 1860–1897 (
                                New York
                            , 1945), 388.
                  
                     14
                            Ibid., 146.
                  
                     15 Ray Allen Billington, Westward Expansion: A History of
                                the American Frontier (
                                New York
                            , 1949), 701; see also Roy M. Robbins, Our Landed Heritage: The
                                Public Domain, 1776–1936 (
                                Princeton
                            , 1942), 268–71.
                  
                     16 Yasuo Okada, Public Lands and Pioneer Farmers:
                                        
                           Gage County, Nebraska
                        , 1850–1900 (Tokyo,
                            1971), 100–104; quotation from page 104.
               
                     initial settlement: "Strange as it may seem, landlords
                    and tenants made their appearance in parts of the state while virgin prairie was to be had for a
                    nominal sum in other parts."" Further in agreement with Gates,
                    Murray held that the "usual sequence" accompanying agricultural depressions in the
                    nineteenth-century Middle West was the "foreclosure of mortgage by the lender and the
                    change of the previous owner into a tenant."18 It is not an
                    exaggeration to say that the Gates interpretation became the conventional wisdom on the question of
                    tenancy in the Middle West for a generation of land and agricultural historians.
            Just as Gates disagreed with earlier scholars on the causes of farm tenancy, so he has more recently
                    attracted his own challengers. As early as 1950, Thomas LeDuc urged historians to "put
                    aside the easy generalities about the diabolical forces that got the better of the honest farmer. It
                    will be more helpful, perhaps, if we attempt to connect the growth of tenantry with the fundamental
                    changes wrought in plains farming in the late nineteenth century."19
                    Theodore Saloutos, while agreeing with Gates that tenancy was an unwanted and unnecessary
                    institution, argued that "it would be misleading to make [land policy] the doormat for
                    everything that ailed agriculture."20 In his methodologically
                    innovative work on 
                  Trempealeau County, Wisconsin
                (published in 1959), Merle Curti
                    "found very few large speculators among new settlers and no evidence that there were at any
                    time in this county the big estate builders that have been found elsewhere by others."
                        Trempealeau County's tenancy rate in 1880 was only 4.3 percent,
                    and from this Curti concluded that renting must have been virtually nonexistent during the years of
                        settlement.21 Moreover, mortgage foreclosure was rare (about 2 percent of
                    all contracts from 1855 to 1880) and could not have contributed significantly to tenancy.22
            
            
               
                  17 William G. Murray, "Struggle for Land Ownership," in
                            A Century of Farming in 
                                Iowa
                            , 1846–1946 (Ames, 1946), 12.
               
                  18
                        Ibid., 13.
               
                  19 Thomas LeDuc, "The Disposal of the Public Domain on the Trans-
                            Mississippi
                         Plains: Some Opportunities for Investigation," Agricultural
                            History, XXIV (October, 1950), 203; see also "Public Policy, Private
                        Investment, and Land Use in American Agriculture, 1825–1875," Agricultural History, XXXVII (January, 1963), 3–9.
               
                  20 Theodore Saloutos, "Land Policy and Its Relation to
                        Agricultural Production and Distribution, 1862 to 1933," Journal of
                            Economic History, XXII (December, 1962), 459.
               
                  21 Merle Curti, The Making of an American Community: A Case
                            Study of Democracy in a Frontier County
                   (
                     Stanford, Calif.
                  , 1959), 143–44, 444–45.
               
                  22
                  Ibid., 161.
            
            
            Margaret Beattie Bogue and Allan G. Bogue, both of whom studied under Gates at Cornell University,
                    have likewise questioned, at least by implication, the conclusions of their teacher. In Patterns from the Sod, published in 1959, Margaret Bogue maintained that land policy,
                    whatever its role elsewhere, was not the reason for tenancy in central 
                        Illinois
                    : "Nonresident ownership established by federal and state land disposal
                    practices in the frontier period was … of scarcely enough significance during the last
                    quarter of the century to merit mention."23 More importantly, even
                    though farm renting increased in the late nineteenth century, it performed a useful function in the
                    developing agricultural economy by enabling young men with limited capital to enter farming.24 Allan Bogue wrote in the preface of his excellent book on farming in the
                    nineteenth-century Midwest, published in 1963, that tenancy was one of the "vital parts of
                    the midwestern agricultural system." Conceding that its causes were complex, he suggested
                    that "lack of capital was the basic reason for the institution of tenancy in the prairie
                    triangle during the nineteenth century. …" Tenants rented "because they
                    did not have the funds with which to purchase a farm for themselves, or in some cases the means to
                    develop their own small holdings rapidly enough to insure an income in their first years'
                    residence in a new community."25 He also played down the importance of
                    mortgage foreclosure as a cause of tenancy: "farmers did lose their land to the moneylender
                    in the years when pioneering difficulties were sternest or in depression years, particularly the
                    1870's. Such men represented a very small percentage of all farmers, but they did exist,
                    and, no doubt, some of them became tenants."26 In addition, he
                    demonstrated an effective method of using the manuscript census records to estimate tenancy rates
                    for the years before the federal government began collecting land tenure data in 1880.27
            
            The most sustained assault on the Gates thesis, however, has come in the past decade from those who
                    have been 
                  
                     23 Margaret B. Bogue, Patterns from the Sod: Land Use and
                                Tenure in the Grand Prairie, 1850–1900 (
                        Springfield, Ill.
                     , 1959), 168–69.
                  
                     24
                     Ibid., 161–62.
                  
                     25, Allan G. Bogue, From 
                                    Prairie
                                 to Corn Belt: Farming on the 
                                    Illinois
                                 and 
                                    Iowa
                                 Prairies in the Nineteenth Century (
                                Chicago
                            , 1963), 56; and "Farming in the 
                                Prairie
                             Peninsula, 1830–1890," Journal of Economic
                                History, XXIII (March, 1963), 26.
                  
                     26 Bogue, From 
                                    Prairie
                                 to Corn Belt, 57; see also his "Foreclosure Tenancy on the
                            Northern Plains," Agricultural History, XXXIX (January, 1965).
                            3–16.
                  
                     27 Bogue, From 
                                    Prairie
                                 to Corn Belt, 63–65.
               
                     called—sometimes derisively, sometimes
                    pretentiously, but always inappropriately—the "new economic
                    historians." They have flatly rejected Gates's explanations of the introduction
                    and increase of midwestern tenancy and challenged his contentions about the extent and degree of
                    rural distress in the nineteenth century.
            Robert P. Swierenga, who was a doctoral student of Allan Bogue at the University of 
                        Iowa
                    , offered the first frontal attack on Gates's interpretation in his 1968 study
                    of land speculation in nineteenth-century 
                        Iowa
                    . He found little evidence that heavy investors in federal land rented out their
                    property to farmers. In fact, they preferred to keep their holdings free of encumbering leases that
                    might impede sale. Furthermore, Swierenga refuted Gates's assumption that large speculators
                    withheld land from sale for extended periods to force up prices and enhance profits. Employing
                    economic theory and quantitative techniques, he demonstrated that their rates of return were
                    inversely proportional to the length of time between purchase and disposal of property. Speculators
                    responded accordingly by selling their land after holding it an average of less than three years.
                    Swierenga suggested that since speculators often provided land credit to farmers, they probably
                    reduced rather than increased the incidence of tenancy on the 
                        Iowa
                     frontier.28 Whatever their objective, according to some authors,
                    with the vast amount of land available, speculators would have found it impossible to gain the
                    monopolistic control necessary to influence prices.29
            
            Seddie Cogswell's doctoral dissertation on tenure and nativity in 
                        Iowa
                     agriculture, begun under Allan Bogue and published in 1975, carried further the
                    argument against Gates. Like Gates, he discovered that tenants appeared in significant numbers in
                    eastern 
                        Iowa
                     during the pioneer stage of settlement, well before federal land had vanished from the
                    state, much less from the territories farther west.30 But this had little if
                    anything to do with speculators. Using Swierenga's data on 
                  
                     28 Robert P. Swierenga, Pioneers and Profits: Land
                                Speculation on the 
                                    Iowa
                                 Frontier (Ames, 1968), 177–78, 190n, 192–205,
                            218–19, 225, 226–27n; see also Robert William Fogel and Jack L.
                            Rutner, "The Efficiency Effects of Federal Land Policy, 1850–1900; A
                            Report of Some Provisional Findings," in William O. Aydelotte, Allan G. Bogue, and
                            Robert William Fogel, eds., The Dimensions of Quantitative Research in
                            History (
                                Princeton
                            , 1972), 411–19.
                  
                     29 See, for instance, Fogel and Rutner, "The Efficiency
                            Effects of Federal Land Policy," 416.
                  
                     30 Seddie Cogswell, Jr., Tenure, Nativity and Age as
                                Factors in 
                                    Iowa
                                 Agriculture, 1850–1880 (Ames, 1975), 23.
               
                     the incidence of speculation and tenancy-rate estimates
                    generated by employing Bogue's method, Cogswell found no association between farm renting
                    and speculative activity.31 Clearly, the cause had to be found elsewhere. Rising
                    land values, which resulted from farm improvements and supply and demand factors rather than from
                    speculator manipulation, made it difficult for farmers, especially those just entering farming, to
                    purchase land. Investments in livestock and equipment necessary for profitable commercial farming on
                    the prairie compounded the problem. These increasing costs created a barrier for those wishing to
                    pursue a career in agriculture. Tenancy, Cogswell concluded, provided a "gateway through
                    that barrier, and with each decade increasing numbers of young farmers passed through
                        it."32 Farm renting, then, was not forced upon defenseless farmers,
                    nor was it a sign that they were economically distressed. Rather, it offered a way for them to
                    adjust to the changing conditions and demands of midwestern agriculture. My own book, Farmers Without Farms, published in 1978, reached somewhat similar conclusions. Also
                    focusing on nineteenth-century 
                        Iowa
                    —which has received a disproportionate share of the revisionists'
                    attention—I found, as had Gates and Cogswell, that tenancy came early to the state and
                    that it increased steadily to the end of the century.33 Evidence drawn from the
                    manuscript and published censuses, county records, and Swierenga's work indicated, however,
                    that the speculator was not the cause. There was no association between tenancy and land
                    speculation, and there was hardly any evidence connecting landlords with large-scale speculative
                    activity. Moreover, the incidence of foreclosure tenancy was negligible. My evidence suggested that
                    pioneer renters chose tenancy because they wished to evaluate an area before purchasing land, were
                    reluctant to farm virgin land in their first year or two after arriving, or were short of investment
                    capital. Furthermore, the increase in 
                        Iowa
                    's farm land values in the last half of the nineteenth century explains much of
                    the concurrent growth of tenancy. In large measure, the increment in land prices was 
                  
                     31
                            Ibid., 25–27.
                  
                     32
                            Ibid., 153.
                  
                     33 Donald L. Winters, Farmers Without Farms: Agricultural
                                Tenancy in Nineteenth-Century 
                                    Iowa
                                
                      (
                        Westport, Conn.
                     , 19781, 14. 
                                Iowa
                             is an excellent state for investigating middle western tenancy: its early
                            agricultural development was typical of that of several other prairie states, and most 
                                Iowa
                             counties have rich and exceptionally well-organized local records.
                  
                     34
                     Ibid., 15–18, 27–28.
               
                     attributable not to land monopolization but to improvements
                    that made farms more productive. But it also resulted from the tendency, especially common in
                    developing areas, for the market price of land to advance more rapidly than its productive potential
                    as owners added part of an expected rise in land value to the current price. That is to say, the
                    price was not determined solely by current returns; it also included a component to capture some of
                    the anticipated appreciation. This was an important factor in understanding the growth of tenancy in
                    nineteenth-century 
                        Iowa
                    , for it meant that land prices outstripped capitalized values based on productivity and
                    therefore that the current money return to land fell short of the prevailing mortgage interest rate.
                    Because of the higher downpayment requirements on land mortgages and the impossibility of meeting
                    mortgage interest payments from current returns to land, many operators found it made economic sense
                    to rent rather than to purchase farms. Thus, tenancy's early appearance in 
                        Iowa
                     and its growth from 1850 to 1900 were rational adjustments to the demands of a new
                    frontier and to the changing conditions of prairie agriculture, not the unfortunate results of
                    speculator and moneylender machinations. In short, the institution served a useful and necessary
                        function.35
            
            The mounting attack of the past two decades has apparently persuaded Gates to moderate his position.
                    "Surely we have gone too far in pillorying government land policies by concentrating so
                    largely on the errors, the weaknesses, the dishonest administrators, and the greedy
                    speculators," he wrote in 1964, "while neglecting the fact that a democratic
                    pattern of farm ownership was being established in such states as 
                        Illinois
                     and 
                        Iowa
                    , notwithstanding notable exceptions."36 He conceded that
                    tenancy, at least in some areas, "seems to have been largely the result of ownership
                    passing from one generation to another."37 "If Jefferson could
                    have seen the results of the public land system," he wrote in 1973, "he would have
                    been convinced that despite the compromises he had been obliged to make (sales instead of free
                    grants) with his pure agrarian preferences, the policy had worked reasonably well."38 And yet there is ambivalence in Gates's recantation. The latter
                    comment 
                  
                     35
                            Ibid., 18–26.
                  
                     36 Paul W. Gates, "The Homestead in 
                                Iowa
                            ," Agricultural History, XXXVIII (April, 1964), 74.
                  
                     37 Paul W. Gates, The History of Public Land Law
                                Development (Washington, 1968), 372.
                  
                     38 Gates, Landlords and Tenants on the 
                                    Prairie
                                 Frontier, 12.
               
                     came in his introduction to a collection of previously
                    published essays—a book devoted to describing the "malfunctioning of an intended
                    democratic system of land disposal." And in the same introduction he harkened back to an
                    old theme with a stinging indictment of federal policy and of those responsible for its
                    administration: "Much malfunctioning of the land system might have been prevented by more
                    careful drafting of legislation, by congresses more sensitive to the problems of the pioneers, by
                    administrators and judges more concerned with the intent of the land laws and less willing to
                    recognize every loophole in them, and by land seekers less ready to perjure themselves in their
                        greed."39
            
            Although most of the debate over farm renting in the Midwest has centered on causes, it has also
                    dealt with other questions. One is the agricultural ladder thesis, which posits that tenancy served
                    as a rung on an economic ladder that enabled farmers to move from laborer to tenant to encumbered
                    owner and, finally, to unencumbered owner. From surveys of practicing farmers at the township and
                    county levels, first-generation agricultural economists concluded that although the process of
                    acquiring land in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries was more varied than the ladder
                    thesis suggests, tenancy was nonetheless a stage through which many farmers passed on their way to
                    ownership. Charles L. Stewart, for instance, claimed that for 
                        Illinois
                     "advancing years tended to replace share with cash tenancy, tenancy with
                    ownership, and encumbrance with freedom from mortgage debt."40 For
                    many, according to these scholars, the rental years were a time for accumulating the financial and
                    human capital necessary for owning and operating one's own farm.41
            
            
               
                  39
                        Ibid.
               
                  40 Stewart, Land Tenure in the 
                                United States
                            
                  , 112.
               
                  41 W.J. Spillman, "The Agricultural Ladder," American Economic Review Supplement IX (March, 1919, 170–79; E.D.
                        Tetreau, "The Agricultural Ladder in the Careers of 610 
                            Ohio
                         Farmers," Journal of Land and Public Utility Economics,
                        VII (August, 1931), 237–48; William Ten Haken, "Land Tenure in 
                            Walnut Grove
                         Township, 
                     Knox County, Illinois
                  ," Journal of
                            Land and Public Utility Economics, IV (February, 1928), 13–24; ibid. (May, 1928), 189–98; Carl F. Wehrwein, "The
                        ‘Agricultural Ladder’ in a High Tenancy Region," Journal of Land and Public Utility Economics, VII (February, 1931), 67–77;
                        Carl F. Wehrwein, "The Pre-Ownership Steps on the ‘Agricultural
                        Ladder’ in a Low Tenancy Region," Journal of Land and Public
                            Utility Economics, IV (November, 1928), 417–25; George H. Von Tungeln,
                        "Some Observations on the So-Called Agricultural Ladder," Journal
                            of Farm Economics, IX (January, 1927). 94–106; George H. Von Tungeln et al.,
                            The Social Aspects of Rural Life and Farm Tenantry (
                            Iowa
                         Agricultural Experiment Station Research Bulletin No. 217, 
                            Ames
                        , 1923).
            
            
            
               Climbing the Agricultural Ladder
               A VIEW
                        OF
                        THE AGRICULTURAL LADDER
               
               Reproduced from Llewellyn Maffiarr, The Rural Community (
                            New York
                        , 1922). 165.
            
            Later historians were more skeptical. While providing little supporting evidence, they reasoned that
                    the mounting capital costs of prairie farming must have made it impossible for growing numbers of
                    farmers to move up the ladder. "Swiftly rising land values made it difficult, if not
                    impossible," Gates remarked, "for a man to climb the ladder of ownership from
                    laborer or tenant to part owner and full owner—a fact that agricultural economists and
                    some historians took long years to  learn."42 The high incidence of foreclosure tenancy, moreover, meant that the
                    institution was frequently a refuge for bankrupt farmers on the way down rather than a rung for
                    enterprising farmers on the way up. If the ladder worked for some, Gates maintained, it
                    "worked in reverse for many others who, unable to meet the mortgage interest, lost their
                    farms to the banker, the insurance company, or the local money lender."43 LaWanda Cox echoed this assessment, noting that "historical studies of the
                    economic conditions of the western farmer suggest that backsliding may have been a major factor in
                    many localities."44
            
            More recently, scholars have once again recognized validity in the agricultural ladder thesis, though
                    they have been more guarded in their assessment than were the agricultural economists. Margaret
                    Bogue's study of central 
                        Illinois
                     conceded that the "ladder to agricultural success was not scaled with
                    ease," but maintained that many tenants eventually moved up to the ownership ranks.45 In his book on prairie farming, Allan Bogue noted that for many successful
                    farmers tenancy was a "step up the tenure ladder, which carried them from their original
                    status as hired men to positions where they not only owned their farm homes but often rental
                    property as well."46 Cogswell's analysis of eastern 
                        Iowa
                     revealed that after the pioneer stage of settlement, rental became increasingly
                    associated with younger and ownership with older farmers, the pattern one would expect if the ladder
                    were operating properly. He was cautious, though, about concluding that tenancy played an important
                    role in upward mobility.47 In my study of the entire state, I uncovered renter
                    and owner age structures similar to those found by Cogswell. By tracing tenants from one manuscript
                    census in subsequent censuses and in county tax lists, I also discovered that about a fifth of them
                    eventually became owners in the counties in which they had previously rented farms; how many moved
                    on to become owners elsewhere was impossible to determine. Although the precise proportion of
                    successful tenants can never be known, my evidence confirmed that a sizable number of 
                        Iowa
                     oprators did indeed use the 
                  
                     42 Gates, Landlords and Tenants on the 
                                    Prairie
                                 Frontier, 7–8.
                  
                     43 Gates, "Frontier Landlords and Pioneer Tenants,"
                            206.
                  
                     44 LaWanda Fenlason Cox, "Tenancy in the 
                                United States
                            , 1865–1900: A Consideration of the Validity of the Agricultural
                            Ladder Hypothesis," Agricul tural History, XVIII (July, 1944),
                            100–101.
                  
                     45 Bogue, Patterns from the Sod, 102–103,
                            162–65.
                  
                     46 Bogue, From 
                                    Prairie
                                 to Corn Belt, 56.
                  
                     47 Cogswell, Tenure, Nativity and Age as Factors in 
                                    Iowa
                                 Agriculture, 30–41.
               
                     institution of tenancy to acquire the capital needed to
                    purchase and maintain farms. With rising land prices, higher downpay-ment requirements, and a
                    widening margin between the current returns to land and the mortgage interest rate, this function
                    apparently became more and more important as the nineteenth century progressed.48
            
            Another important question, the determination of tenure choice, has received relatively little
                    attention from historians of midwestern tenancy. Unlike the literature on postbellum southern
                    sharecropping, which carefully analyzes why tenants and landlords chose one form of tenure
                    arrangement over alternative forms, studies of the prairie states have given short shrift to this
                    subject. Despite a body of theoretical knowledge developed by agricultural economists to explain
                    tenure selection and to account for the division of responsibilities for farm inputs, historians
                    have usually been satisfied to observe without explanation that rental arrangements differed from
                    place to place and from time to time.49 In several of his essays, Gates briefly
                    described typical agreements and implied that they were conditions landlords imposed upon
                        tenants.50 Allan Bogue outlined a number of arrangements in frontier 
                        Illinois
                     and 
                        Iowa
                    , noting only that "share leases probably were always more common than cash
                        leases."51 Margaret Bogue gave somewhat fuller attention to the
                    variety of contracts in central 
                        Illinois
                     and speculated about possible explanations for the variation. Like Gates, she placed
                    the major emphasis upon landlord preference and interests.52
            
            My study of nineteenth-century 
                        Iowa
                     addressed this question directly. I found, just as the theories developed earlier by
                    the agricultural economists would suggest, that division of risk from uncertainty was the principal
                    factor affecting tenure 
                  
                     48 Winters, Farmers Without Farms, 79–88,
                            91.
                  
                     49 Stevens N. S. Cheung, The Theory of Share Tenancy;
                                With Special Application to Asian Agriculture and the First Phase of Taiwan Land
                            Reform (
                                Chicago
                            , 1969), 30–61; Earl O. Heady and Earl W. Kehrberg, Relationship of Crop-Share and Cash Leasing to Farming Efficiency (
                                Iowa
                             Agricultural Experiment Station Research Bulletin No. 386, 
                                Ames
                            , 1952); C.F. Holmes, Relation of Types of Tenancy to Types of
                                Farming in 
                                    Iowa
                                
                      (
                                Iowa
                             Agricultural Experiment Station Research Bulletin No. 214, 
                                Ames
                            , 1923); Joseph D. Reid, Jr., "Share-cropping and Agricultural
                            Uncertainty," Economic Development and Cultural Change, XXIV
                            (April, 1976), 549–76; Reid, "Sharecropping as an Understandable Market
                            Response," 106–30.
                  
                     50 Gates, "Frontier Estate Builders and Farm
                            Laborers," 156; "Land Policy and Tenancy in the 
                                Prairie
                             States," 74; "Frontier Landlords and Pioneer
                            Tenants," 152–88.
                  
                     51 Bogue, From 
                                    Prairie
                                 to Corn Belt, 60.
                  
                     52 Bogue, Patterns from the Sod, 99–101,
                            165–69.
               
                     choice. Under share arrangements the landlord participates in
                    the risks of capricious weather and poor market conditions, while under cash arrangements the tenant
                    bears them alone. Therefore, the greater the perceived risk, the greater the tenant preference for
                    share contracts and the greater his willingness to pay the higher rents demanded by landlords to
                    assume a portion of the risk; conversely, the smaller the perceived risk, the greater the tenant
                    preference for the cheaper cash contracts and the greater his resistance to paying the share-rent
                        premium.53 During the early stages of settlement in 
                        Iowa
                    , when farmers were uncertain about the productive potential of the new lands and
                    unfamiliar with their most profitable uses, the ratio of share to cash contracts was relatively
                    high. Over time, as operators became more familiar with their farming areas, there was a
                    corresponding decline in the risk from uncertainty accompanied by a drop in the ratio of share to
                    cash contracts. Clearly, tenants in the early stages were paying their landlords to accept some of
                    the risk from frontier uncertainty; but with the lessening of risk as settlement progressed, tenants
                    became increasingly reluctant to pay for the higher share contracts. Moreover, areas of the state
                    with a relatively high incidence of crop damage from adverse weather or poor drainage and those with
                    more of their improved acreage in wheat, a comparatively risky crop for 
                        Iowa
                     farmers, had proportionately more share renting. Tenants in these high-risk areas
                    apparently chose share arrangements in part to gain greater certainty even though it meant lower
                        income.54
            
            Although of less importance than the allocation of risk, type of farming was also a factor in tenure
                    choice in nineteenth-century 
                        Iowa
                    . For a variety of reasons, cash-grain farming is better suited to share renting than is
                    grain-livestock or dairy farming. Thus, according to conventional economic theory, tenants and
                    landlords in grain regions tend to prefer share contracts and those in livestock regions, cash
                    contracts. I found, as this postulate would suggest, that share-to-cash ratios were relatively low
                    in meat-animal and dairy areas and relatively high in specialized grain areas.55
            
            Landlords in nineteenth-century 
                        Iowa
                     offered a full range of tenure arrangements from exclusively share contracts to a wide
                    variety of share/cash combination contracts to exclusively cash contracts at rents differing largely
                    according to the division 
                  
                     53 Cheung, The Theory of Share Tenancy,
                            63–64
                  
                     54 Winters, Farmers Without Farms, 59–61.
                  
                     55
                            Ibid., 64.
               
                     of risk. In some cases, tenants selected from the alternatives
                    guided by their perceptions of whether the gain from avoiding risk was worth the increased costs. In
                    others, tenants and landlords chose arrangements that seemed appropriate for the particular type of
                    farming operation involved. Some scholars have suggested that landlord preference played a crucial
                    role in tenure choice, with absentee landlords favoring cash contracts because they provided greater
                    convenience in rent collection and local landlords favoring share contracts because they provided
                    greater opportunity to participate in the management of the farm. These factors, however, were of
                    small importance in explaining contract selection in 
                        Iowa
                    .
            The evidence from 
                        Iowa
                     supports the hypothesis that tenure choice, like the causes of agricultural tenancy,
                    can best be explained as a rational response to the conditions of prairie agriculture in the
                    nineteenth century. Rental arrangements were the product of purposeful rather than random or
                    arbitrary decisions. They expressed the objectives and interests of tenants and landlords alike and
                    reflected the adaptation of both groups to the economic circumstances of a particular place at a
                    particular time.56
            
            Finally, the earlier agricultural economists contended that tenancy—especially share
                    tenancy—failed to provide farmers with incentive to use land, labor, and capital to
                    maximum efficiency. Because of the uncertain length of their tenure on a particular farm, renters
                    tended to concentrate on short-term production systems and to employ soil-depleting practices. Their
                    aim was to maximize personal income over the expected period of occupancy (usually one year), even
                    though an alternative production system might have yielded higher social returns in the long run.
                    Moreover, since tenants were frequently short of money and, in the case of share tenants, had to
                    divide with the landlords any increase in output from capital expenditures, they invested relatively
                    less in fertilizers and labor-saving equipment than owners did. Landlords, for their part, were
                    reluctant to build and maintain the structures necessary for the most efficient utilization of their
                    land because of tenant resistance to the higher rents that such investment required. Tenant behavior
                    and landlord behavior, therefore, tended to be mutually reinforcing and, according to the
                    agricultural economists, 
                  
                     56
                            Ibid., 64–67
               
                     resulted in destructive land use and inefficient farming.57
            
            Historians who see tenancy as a sign of economic malfunction and of rural distress accept, without
                    question, the ineficiency thesis. They assume, quite naturally, that if tenancy was undesirable for
                    those upon whom it was forced, it must have been detrimental to society as a whole. Gates observed
                    that "speculator ownership and tenancy did not always result in the best use of the land.
                    … [It] forced farm practices which depleted the soil, produced erosion, and diminished
                    land values."58 He summed up a detailed investigation of the William
                    Scully estate in central 
                        Illinois
                     by concluding that "Scully's tenants and their farm practices were
                    probably no worse than those on most other rented farms."59 Even
                    scholars who hold a more benign view of tenancy often take the position, at least by implication,
                    that it fostered less productive operations than those of owners. Some of the data in
                    Cogswell's study suggest, for instance, that 
                        Iowa
                     renters were not necessarily inefficient, but he does not question the traditional
                        view.60 Interestingly, despite his strong attachment to the Gates thesis,
                    Okada had to concede that in light of his Gage County evidence on farming
                    efficiency, "the advantage of tenant farming was probably beyond dispute."61
            
            Although the Bogues have not dealt directly with the question of relative efficiency, they have taken
                    exception to the claim that tenants were more soil exploitative than owner 
                  
                     57 Rainer Schickele, "Effect of Tenure Systems on
                            Agricultural Efficiency," Journal of Farm Economics, XXIII
                            (February, 1941), 185–207; Howard W. Ottoson, "The Application of
                            Efficiency to Farm Tenure Arrangements," Journal of Farm
                            Economics, XXXVII (December, 1955), 1341–53; Michele De Be-nedictis and John
                            F. Timmons, Identification and Measurement of Inefficiences in Leasing
                            Systems (
                                Iowa
                             Agricultural Experiment Station Research Bulletin No. 490, 
                                Ames
                            , 1961); Harald R. Jensen, Earl O. Heady, and Ross V. Baumann, Costs, Returns, and Capital Requirements for Soil-Conserving Farming on Rented Farms in
                                Western 
                                    Iowa
                                
                      (
                                Iowa
                             Agricultural Experiment Station Research Bulletin No. 423, 
                                Ames
                            , 1955); William Bennett Bizzell, Farm Tenantry in the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                Texas
                             Agricultural Experiment Station Research Bulletin No. 278, College Station,
                            1921); P.K. Bardhan and T.N. Srinivasan, "Cropsharing Tenancy in Agriculture: A
                            Theoretical and Empirical Analysis," American Economic Review,
                            LXI (March, 1971), 48–64; Heady and Kehrberg, Relationship of
                                Crop-Share and Cash Leasing to Farm Efficiency; Cheung, The Theory of
                                Share Tenancy, 30–61.
                  
                     58 Gates, "The Role of the Land Speculator in Western
                            Development," 328.
                  
                     59 Gates, "Frontier Landlords and Pioneer Tenants,"
                            189.
                  
                     60 Cogswell, Tenure, Nativity and Age as Factors in 
                                    Iowa
                                 Agriculture, 132–51.
                  
                     61 Okada, Public Lands and Pioneer Farmers,
                        125.
               
                     operators were. After noting evidence of destructive
                    agricultural practices among renters, Margaret Bogue cautioned that "poor farming
                    techniques, run-down buildings, and declining soil fertility should not, however, be associated
                    exclusively with tenant-operated land. Undoubtedly many an owner-operated farm also became shoddy
                    under the pressure of paying mortgage indebtedness, or as a result of individual misfortune, or
                    simply because the owner knew he could sell his land at a profit and push on to a new frontier and a
                    newer and larger farm."62 Allan Bogue agreed, claiming that
                    "owners as well as tenants were careless of the soil in nineteenth-century 
                        Illinois
                     and 
                        Iowa
                    . There were few of either who seriously utilized soil-conservation practices before the
                        1880's."63
            
            My own research pointed, admittedly somewhat tentatively, to a similar conclusion. Tenants, to be
                    sure, often engaged in land-intensive farming systems, especially cereal cultivation, which were
                    more soil-depleting than livestock husbandry. Also suggestive of renter negligence were the frequent
                    and elaborate clauses in rental leases defining how the tenant should use and care for the land and
                    providing the landlord with sanctions to enforce them. Yet there is no evidence that renters were
                    more inclined to mine the soil or less inclined to follow land management programs than
                    owner-operators were. For instance, it was rare to find members of either group who practiced crop
                    rotation or applied commercial fertilizers. Farmland in the nineteenth-century Midwest, no matter
                    who was cultivating it, apparently suffered from exploitative practices.64 More
                    importantly, I found that 
                        Iowa
                     tenancy was not inherently inefficient. Comparisons of production records from the
                    tenant and owner sectors led to the conclusion that there was no significant difference between the
                    two groups. Although they engaged in types of farming different from those of their landowner
                    counterparts, renters, whether share or cash, were as productive as owner-operators. Thus, tenancy
                    did not undermine agricultural development and slow economic growth; in fact, by placing land at the
                    disposal of those who would put it to productive use, it probably enhanced both.65
            
            Since midwestern agricultural tenancy began attracting the attention of scholars some seventy years
                    ago, historiography on the subject has gone through three identifiable stages, 
                  
                     62 Bogue, Patterns from the Sod, 180–81.
                  
                     63 Bogue, From 
                                    Prairie
                                 to Corn Belt, 62.
                  
                     64 Winters, Farmers Without Farms, 53–55.
                  
                     65
                            Ibid., 92–105.
               
                     ranging from the argument that farm renting was an unfortunate
                    but inevitable development, to the argument that it was the product of speculator conspiracy and
                    dishonest administration and therefore avoidable, to the argument that it was economically rational
                    and therefore socially desirable. These changing views reflect in part the tendency for each
                    generation to reinterpret the past. But there is more to it than that. The assumptions and purposes
                    with which scholars approached their subject and the environment in which they wrote also
                    contributed to the differences in interpretation.
            The young agricultural economists of the early twentieth century saw their discipline as a policy
                    science. They believed that systematic and objective investigation of the economic aspects of
                    agriculture would enable governments at the national and state levels to formulate effective
                    programs for dealing with farm problems. They were particularly bothered by the increase in tenancy,
                    not only because they thought it was inefficient, but because it violated the great American ideal
                    of a class of independent, landowning farmers. Despite their strong commitment to improving
                    agricultural conditions, however, they did not feel the indignation at the plight of the farmer that
                    would consume the next generation of scholars. Thus, they were interested in the history of farm
                    renting only insofar as it could inform policy makers on how the disturbing trend in tenancy rates
                    might be reversed; they were not interested in using it to assess blame. To accomplish their
                    purpose, they carried out extensive, though fairly unsophisticated, analyses of data drawn from the
                    published censuses and interviews with practicing farmers. Their conclusion that a vanishing
                    frontier and the attendant rise in land values were the root causes of the tenancy problem suggested
                    the appropriate policy: government assistance in securing long-term credit for purchasing farms. The
                    creation of the federal land bank system in 1916 and the establishment of several agricultural
                    credit programs in the 1920s were the result.
            The historians who began reassessing land policy and tenancy in the 1930s worked in a changed
                    political, social, and economic environment. The depression that gripped the country in that decade
                    inflicted upon American agriculture, already hit by post-World War I adjustment problems, a
                    seemingly insoluble catastrophe. The new federal land historians, possessing a deep sense of social
                    justice, were appalled at the farmers' desperate situation. Allan Bogue revealed much about
                    his mentor's frame of reference when he noted that Gates was "profoundly moved by
                    the foreclosures, the dispossession of farmers, low 
                    agricultural prices, and the erosion of farm lands, which were so integral a part of the great
                    depression. … "66 Like many of the politicians of the period
                    who were searching for scapegoats for the country's current economic crisis, the land
                    historians began looking for someone to blame for the country's long history of rural
                    distress. Politicians and historians discovered the same culprit: moneyed interests. Convinced that
                    the land speculator, estate owner, and moneylender had taken advantage of the "monstrous
                    errors" of the government in the distribution of the public domain, just as big business
                    had taken advantage of the economic favoritism of the administrations of the 1920s, these historians
                    indicted moneyed interests as the principal cause of tenancy, as well as almost everything else that
                    ailed agriculture. It was the shock of the Great Depression that for the first time brought agrarian
                    problems into perspective. "Not until the depression of the 1930s," Gates
                    maintained, "did the 
                        United States
                     realize the errors it permitted to develop in … [its] land use
                        pattern."67
            
            The new land historians, influenced by the progressive strain of American political tradition, cast
                    their interpretations in an anticapitalist, proagrarian mold. They consciously adopted the rhetoric
                    and employed the images of the agrarian and land reformers of the nineteenth century. Large-scale
                    dealers in public land became "land monopolists," bankers became "loan
                    sharks," mortgage interest became "usurious demands," foreclosure became
                    "confiscation of equity," and unfortunate or inept farmers became
                    "victims of the land monopolists" or deprived members of the
                    "poverty-stricken masses." Revealingly, Gates recalled in 1973 that one of his
                    main objectives in studying federal land policy had been to discover what "methods were
                    used to establish the great holdings of timber, mining, grazing, and agricultural lands that have
                    long troubled Populists, Progressives, trust busters, an-timonopolists, conservationists, and
                    advocates of single-family farms."68 He and the generation of
                    historians over whom he had so much influence clearly identified with the long strand of political
                    reformers that stretched back from the 1930s into the nineteenth century. Their sympathy for
                    reformist causes, both of their own and of earlier times, dictated in large measure the 
                  
                     66 Aydelotte, Bogue, and Fogel, The Dimensions of
                                Quantitative Research in History, 52.
                  
                     67 Gates, Landlords and Tenants on the 
                                    Prairie
                                 Frontier, 48.
                  
                     68
                            Ibid., 1–2.
               
                     questions they asked, the approach they took, and the
                    conclusions they drew.
            Not only did these historians reject the agricultural economists' explanation of the
                    emergence of tenancy, they also found fault with their methodology. They maintained that analysis of
                    quantitative data could not reveal the essence of history. In studies relying on this type of
                    evidence, Gates insisted, "individuals disappear in the flood of statistics and history
                    becomes the mere barebones of the past, sterile and unin-terpretive."69
                    The only way to understand the past was to deal with real people, not with statistical abstractions.
                    Historians of the public domain, therefore, supported their generalizations, not with aggregate data
                    drawn from censuses and interviews, but with intensive examinations of individual large-scale land
                    and financial operations selected because they fit preconceived notions about the causes of rural
                    distress.
            Reacting to the emotional tone of much of the literature on land policy and agricultural tenancy,
                    Thomas LeDuc charged in 1959 that "most historians seem to have been so deafened by the
                    noise of agrarian politics that they have never taken a hard and disinterested look at the economic
                    realities in a swiftly changing enterprise."70 A number of historians
                    of the past two decades have attempted to correct this weakness by taking a more dispassionate
                    approach than that employed by the previous generation. They eschew value judgments about whether
                    tenancy was good or bad, democratic or undemocratic, fair or unfair. They are careful not to let
                    personal feelings influence either their procedures or conclusions. In place of emotionally charged
                    references to speculators, moneylenders, and landlords are analyses of the roles played by the
                    principal historical participants. In place of an uncamouflaged sympathy for agrarian causes is a
                    clearly stated analytical structure. In place of assessments of blame are attempts to explain. As a
                    result, recent historians have done much to eliminate the ideological bias that colored earlier
                    writing on tenancy.
            Change in the economic environment has doubtless contributed to change in the way scholars have
                    viewed agricultural tenancy. With the depression of the 1930s a dimming memory and the 
                        United States
                     enjoying unprecedented prosperity in the postwar years, recent historians have been
                        
                  
                     69 Paul W. Gates, "Research in the History of American Land
                            Tenure: A Review Article," Agricultural History, XXVIII (July,
                            1954), 123.
                  
                     70 Thomas LeDuc, "Recent Contributions to Economic History:
                            The 
                                United States
                            , 1861–1900," Journal of Economic History,
                            XIX (March, 1959). 51.
               
                     primarily interested in the country's long-term
                    economic growth and development. For them, the economy of the nineteenth century was dynamic and
                    expanding, not manipulated and malfunctioning. Farmers, to be sure, suffered periods of financial
                    distress, but so did other groups in society. Economic hardship and dislocation were not, however,
                    the results of conspiracy among powerful moneyed interests; they were the unfortunate yet
                    unavoidable price of economic development and participation in the market economy. Still,
                    notwithstanding some inevitable financial distress, per capita income in rural America was rising
                    and farmers were participating in the growing prosperity. As undesirable as agricultural tenancy may
                    have seemed to some nineteenth-century farmers and to later scholars, it was, according to the new
                    economic historians, an appropriate response to what LeDuc called the "economic realities
                    in a swiftly changing enterprise" and one of the myriad adjustments required to bring
                    improvements in the country's economic welfare.
            There is also a methodological dimension to the interpretive departures of late. Recent historians
                    have employed theories, models, and concepts from the field of economics to guide the selection of
                    data, to formulate hypotheses, to explain the meaning of evidence, and to inform their conclusions.
                    Swierenga used a rate-of-return model in his study of land speculators. Although Cogswell was not
                    explicit in his use of theory, he did employ economic concepts in his analysis of the causes of
                    tenancy and its function in prairie agriculture. I drew heavily upon agricultural economic theory in
                    my examination of the causes of tenancy, of the factors influencing tenant farming systems, of the
                    determinants of tenure choice, and of the efficiency of tenancy.
            The central role of economic theory has important implications for the findings of the new economic
                    historians. Their theories and models rest on the assumptions that tenants and landlords understood,
                    at least in a general way, the economic conditions affecting agriculture in the nineteenth century,
                    that they perceived with reasonable clarity the relationship between possible responses to those
                    conditions and their respective results, and that they chose responses calculated to maximize their
                    incomes. When interests clashed, as they often did, no group had the power to impose its will on the
                    others; market forces were the final arbiter. Tenants competed with each other in seeking farms to
                    rent, and landlords competed with each other in offering farms to rent. Supply and demand determined
                         the levels of tenancy, the amount of rent, the types of
                    tenure arrangement, and the respective obligations of tenants and landlords. Recent historians thus
                    view the decisions and actions of the historical participants as economically rational and as taking
                    place within a relatively free market system. Clearly, this is far different from the implicit model
                    of the historians of the public domain, a model in which speculators had the power to set land
                    prices, moneylenders the power to manipulate interest rates, and landlords the power to dictate
                    rental conditions, while tenants were powerless against all of them.
            In addition to the explicit use of theory, the new economic historians also rely heavily on
                    quantitative data and deal with functional groups rather than individuals. Instead of concentrating
                    on the operations of a few large speculators or landlords, as the land historians tended to do, they
                    draw their evidence from as broad a base as possible, subject of course to the constraints of time
                    and expense. They reject the idea that one may generalize from a group of hand-picked examples,
                    preferring instead to rest their conclusions on the analysis of whole populations or representative
                    samples. Swierenga dealt with speculators from a sample of counties across the state and Cogswell
                    with all tenants from a six-county area of eastern 
                        Iowa
                    . Whenever possible, I took my evidence from the entire state; whenever necessary, I
                    took it from a representative sample of counties or townships. Allan Bogue's method for
                    estimating tenancy rates from the manuscript census not only provided, as noted above, previously
                    unavailable data on the levels of farm renting before 1880, it also made it possible to identify the
                    tenant subgroup within the farming population. I was therefore able to examine the agricultural
                    systems and efficiency of tenant farmers and to determine the frequency with which they moved up the
                    agricultural ladder, questions that could not be addressed through exclusive focus on large estates.
                    Likewise, by analyzing hundreds of farm leases from a group of sample counties, rather than abstract
                    the model contracts of a few wealthy landlords, I was able to show and to explain the diversity in
                    rental arrangements. Although the new economic historians' approach is similar to that of
                    the earlier agricultural economists in type and treatment of evidence, recent refinements in
                    statistical techniques and advances in computer technology have allowed a much more sophisticated
                    analysis than was possible seventy years ago. In sum, the use of economic theory and quantitative
                    techniques has introduced greater analytical rigor and resulted in fewer impressionistic  conclusions than were found in the work of previous generations.
            The revisionism of the 1960s and 1970s has not swept all before it. There are still those who find
                    Gates's conspiratorial interpretation more satisfying than the new economic
                    historians' dispassionate explanation. They are critical of the revisionists on several
                    counts. First of all, according to the detractors, their story is incomplete. By concentrating
                    narrowly on economic questions relating to growth and development, the revisionists ignore important
                    social and political questions essential to a full understanding of agricultural tenancy. More
                    serious, just as the earlier historians' tunnel-vision focus on rural distress distorted
                    historical reality, so too does the new economic historians' blind faith in economic
                    progress. "The school," opines Reginald Horsman, "poses the danger of
                    replacing the incongruous land policy, rampant speculation, and oppressed farmers of an earlier
                    group of historians with a western Arcadia, in which speculators, moneylenders, farm-owners and
                    tenants happily press onwards into the glorious sunlit uplands of a successful market
                        economy."71 The critics also have dusted off the old charge that
                    the use of quantitative data dehumanizes history by ignoring individuals and have applied it to the
                    new economic historians. Worse yet, the unfeeling revisionists have their hearts in the wrong place.
                    According to Horsman, the "economic history of the new economic historians has a curious
                    lack of interest in individual human beings, in their strivings, their failings, their successes,
                    and their dilemmas."72 The most unsettling feature of the new history,
                    in the eyes of its critics, is that it has replaced the progressive orthodoxy of the 1930s and 1940s
                    with a conservative orthodoxy of its own. Why the revisionist interpretations are conservative is
                    not entirely clear, but presumably it is because they appear to some as apologies for capitalism. In
                    any event, the critics apparently consider this the ultimate heresy.
            The attack on the new economic historians has been wide-ranging and has addressed methodological as
                    well as substantive issues. Like the interpretations of the 1930s, these arguments have a certain
                    intuitive logic and an emotional appeal. What is more, they pose a number of bothersome questions
                        
                  
                     71 Reginald Horsman, "Changing Images of the Public Domain:
                            Historians and the Shaping of Midwest Frontiers," in This Land of
                                Ours: The Acquisition and Disposition of the Public Domain (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1978), 79.
                  
                     72
                            Ibid., 80.
               
                     with which the revisionists will have to come to terms. Social,
                    cultural, and political factors may indeed have been more important in shaping the institution of
                    tenancy than recent historians have been willing to admit. Interestingly, though, neither Cogswell
                    nor I found any association between the socioeconomic backgrounds of farmers and tenancy rates,
                    types of rental arrangements, or amount of rent. Still, this question should be on the agenda for
                    future research. Further investigation of the economic welfare of middle western farmers relative to
                    other groups will help to determine if revisionists have in fact treated too lightly the matter of
                    rural distress. More importantly, scholars must test the interpretations of the new economic
                    historians in different places and at different times. It may be that the conspiratorial view of
                    tenancy accords more closely with the facts in states other than 
                        Iowa
                     or in regions other than the Middle West. Perhaps speculators, moneylenders, and large
                    estateholders were more important as agents of tenancy in Indiana than they were in 
                        Iowa
                    . Perhaps the incidence of foreclosure tenancy was greater in the plains than it was in
                    the prairies. Perhaps southern tenancy served as an institution of labor exploitation and social
                    control rather than as a vehicle of economic mobility. Not only will such studies go a long way
                    toward resolving the interpretive differences between the public land historians and the
                    revisionists, they will also help to determine which model best approximates the nineteenth-century
                    rural economy: a manipulated one in which moneyed interests dictate economic conditions or a
                    competitive one in which market forces shape them. Those responding to Horsman's call to
                    "revise the revisers" will therefore have virgin soil to work; whether they can
                    fruitfully cultivate it remains to be seen.73
            
            
               
                  73
                  Ibid.
            
         
         
         
            The Black Family in 
                        Evansville
                     and 
                        Vanderburgh County
                    , Indiana: A 1900 Postscript
            
                    Darrel E. Bigham*
               
                
            Rejecting the traditional view that slavery and poverty produced a pattern of matriarchy and family
                    instability among Afro-Americans, a number of scholars recently have demonstrated the prevalence of
                    two-parent, male-headed families among urban and rural blacks in the post-Civil War era. They
                    suggest that "the typical black household was not ‘unorganized and
                    disorganized’ and that the urban experience, not the heritage of slavery, was the basic
                    determinant of late-nineteenth-century black life." The author's study of black
                    family life in 1880 in 
                        Evansville
                     and 
                        Vanderburgh County
                    , Indiana, published in the June, 1979, issue of the Indiana Magazine of
                        History, supported this conclusion.
            Family patterns among blacks in this Ohio River county in 1880 seem to have been
                    the product of slave culture as modified by urban life, since there were significant differences
                    between urban and rural families in 
                        Vanderburgh County
                    . Despite a common rural, agrarian heritage and a legacy of slavery, urban and rural
                    blacks differed in, among other things, the proportion of female-headed families. Although nearly 98
                    percent of rural black families were couple-headed, only about 80 percent of urban families were,
                    and most of those with single parents were female headed. Compared with rural families, urban
                    families also were more likely to include relatives and/or boarders and lodgers, slightly smaller in
                    size but more likely to share a residence with other families, less likely to have 
                  
                     * Damel E. Bigham is professor of history at Indiana State
                            University, 
                                Evansville
                            .
                  
                     1 Darrel E. Bigham, "The Black Family in 
                                Evansville
                             and 
                                Vanderburgh County
                            , Indiana, in 1880," Indiana Magazine of History,
                            LXXV (June, 1979), 117–46. Quotation from page 118. For a review of recent
                            literature on the subject see ibid., 117–18.
               
                     children, and more prone to break up due to death, divorce, or
                    desertion. Such differences were not traceable to slavery, given the similar cultural and economic
                    roots of 
                        Vanderburgh County
                     blacks, but rather to "the urban experience, characterized by occupational
                    instability, residential segregation, disease, institutional racism, and social
                    disintegration." The strength of the black family was "nonetheless apparent in
                    many ways, not only in the persistence of the two-parent, nuclear family, but also in the various
                    means by which the family adapted to the urban setting. 
                        Vanderburgh County
                     blacks displayed both basic respect for traditional ideals about the family and an
                    ability to meet the challenges of a new environment."2
            
            Since publication of that article in 1979 population schedules for the 1900 federal census have been
                    made available to researchers. These manuscript schedules provide an opportunity to see whether the
                    conclusions made about the black family of 1880 were valid twenty years later. In addition, these
                    schedules provide important information concerning married couples, including length of marriage,
                    number of children born of the marriage, number of children still living, and whether household
                    heads owned or rented their homes.3 These questions were not asked by 1880
                    census-takers.
            As indicated in Table I, in both rural and urban portions of 
                        Vanderburgh County
                     in 1900 the percentage of two-parent or couple-headed families was somewhat lower than
                    it had been twenty years earlier: 84.3 percent in the country and 71.5 percent in the city, as
                    compared with the 1880 figures of 97.6 percent and 78.1 percent, respectively. As in 1880 most of
                    the urban one-parent family heads were women. In 
                        Evansville
                     the proportion of two-parent or couple-headed families ranged from 60.8 percent in Ward
                    3 to 80.5 percent in Ward 4. Although a larger proportion of families were headed by a single parent
                    than had been the case in 1880, a substantial number had a husband and a wife present and thus were,
                    by the standards of that era, socially stable.4
            
            
               
                  2
                        Ibid., 146.
               
                  3 U.S., Twelfth Census. Population Schedules for Vanderbureh
                            County, Indiana, 1900, National Archives Microfilm Publications No. T623, Rolls
                        239: 41, passim; for a discussion of the 1900 census as a research tool, see
                        Robert G. Barrows, "The 1900 Federal Census: A Note on Availability and Potential
                        Uses," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXIV (June, 1978),
                        146–52.
               
                  4 There were fewer rural families in 1900 than in 1880 for several
                        reasons—annexation by the city of portions of Knight Township, where many blacks
                        lived; availability of work in 
                            Evansville
                        ; and the economic stresses on farmers of that era. The rise in the number of
                        one-parent rural families was due largely to the increase in the number of widowers heading
                        families.
            
            
            
               ROUSTABOUT
                        ON
                        THE EVANSVILLE WATERFRONT, ABOUT 1910
               Courtesy of Author.
            
            
            The presence of proportionally more female heads of families in 
                        Evansville
                     than in its rural environs is "not easily explained as a legacy of slavery or
                    of the shock of migration. Nor can it be described as a result of economic condition
                        alone."5 A more comprehensive examination of this phenomenon is
                    needed. The 1900 census, for instance, does reveal that, on the one hand, most black men who headed
                    families held some form of employment—less than twenty either listed no job or stated
                    that they had been out of work for the entire year prior to June, 1900—and thus one does
                    not gain a picture of a largely jobless male population which shifted the responsibility of
                    household maintenance to the women. It is also clear, on the other hand, that many black men worked
                    intermittently—451 of the 1,062 male heads of families had been out of work for part of
                    the previous year—and that blacks were concentrated in low-paying occupations. As noted
                    in Table 11, a larger proportion than in 1880—about 82 percent as compared with about 77
                    percent—were unskilled workers, and there were proportionally fewer heads of family with
                    professional, high white collar, and skilled occupations. When considered in conjunction with data
                    on home ownership in the 1900 census, the economic plight of 
                        Evansville
                     blacks is readily apparent. Only 8.4 percent of the black household heads owned or were
                    buying their homes. Over 91 percent of black families, as compared with 61 percent of white families
                    in 
                        Evansville
                    , lived in housing which they rented. It must also be noted that the economic condition
                    of female heads of family was especially poor, as many of the 308 female heads had no source of
                    income other than that provided by employed children and relatives, boarders, or lodgers.6
            
            In 1900, as in 1880, age and the probability of widowhood do not explain the fact that female heads
                    of family were more common in the city than in the country. As shown in Table III, almost as many
                    urban female heads were aged forty or less as were aged forty-one or more, a point after which
                    widowhood would seem more likely to occur. There were, in fact, only slight differences in the
                    proportions of male and female heads in each age bracket, a situation which resembled that of 1880.
            
               
                  5 Bigham, "Black Family," 123.
               
                  6 U.S., Twelfth Census, Population Schedules for 
                            Vanderburgh County
                        , 1900, passim; for a discussion of this subject see Bigham,
                        "Black Family," 123–25. The population schedules list the
                        occupation, trade, or profession of each person aged ten and above; the information supplied by
                        those enumerated does not guarantee that each individual was actually employed in the position
                        he or she cited.
            
            
            
               Table I: Heads of Black Families, 
                            Vanderburgh County
                        , 1880 and 1900
               
                   
                  Total Black Families*
                  
                  Two-Parent Black Families
                  One-Parent Black Families
                  Female-Headed Black Families
               
               
                  Section/Year
                  Number
                  Number
                  Percent
                  Number
                  Percent
                  Number
                  Percent
               
               
                  Rural
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  1880
                  210
                  205
                  97.6
                  5
                  2.4
                  4
                  1.9
               
               
                  1900
                  83
                  70
                  84.3
                  13
                  15.7
                  5
                  6.1
               
               
                  Urban
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  1880
                  574
                  448
                  78.1
                  126
                  22.0
                  123
                  21.4
               
               
                  1900
                  1370
                  980
                  71.5
                  390
                  28.5
                  308
                  22.4
               
               
                  Ward 1
                  145
                  108
                  74.5
                  37
                  25.5
                  32
                  22.1
               
               
                  Ward 2
                  204
                  131
                  64.2
                  73
                  35.8
                  60
                  29.4
               
               
                  Ward 3
                  130
                  79
                  60.8
                  51
                  39.2
                  40
                  30.8
               
               
                  Ward 4
                  174
                  140
                  80.5
                  34
                  19.5
                  20
                  11.5
               
               
                  Ward 5
                  90
                  67
                  74.4
                  23
                  25.6
                  18
                  20.0
               
               
                  Ward 6
                  79
                  63
                  79.7
                  16
                  20.3
                  12
                  15.2
               
               
                  Ward 7
                  548
                  392
                  71.5
                  156
                  28.5
                  127
                  23.2
               
            
            
               
                  * Excludes single-member households and public families.
               Sources: U.S., Tenth Census, Population Schedules for 
                            Vanderburgh County
                        , Indiana, 1880, National Archives Microfilm Publications No. T9, Rolls
                        316–17, frames 88–542, and U.S., Twelfth Census, Population Schedules for 
                            Vanderburgh County
                        , Indiana, 1900, National Archives Microfilm Publications No. T623, Rolls
                        239–41.
            
            
               Table II: Occupations of Heads of Black Families, 
                            Evansville
                        , 1880 and 1900
               
                   
                   
                  
                            Occupation
                        
               
               
                   
                  
                  Professional/ High White Collar
                  Proprietor/Low White Collar
                  Skilled
                  Unskilled/ Specified
                  Unskilled/ Unspecified
                  None
               
               
                  Year
                  Total
                  Number
                  Percent
                  Number
                  Percent
                  Number
                  Percent
                  Number
                  Percent
                  Number
                  Percent
                  Number
                  Percent
               
               
                  1880
                  574
                  12
                  2.1
                  10
                  1.7
                  43
                  7.5
                  216
                  37.6
                  224
                  39.0
                  69
                  12.0
               
               
                  1900
                  1370
                  27
                  2.0
                  29
                  2.1
                  79
                  5.8
                  595
                  43.4
                  525
                  38.3
                  115
                  8.4
               
            
            
               Sources: US., Tenth Census, Population Schedules for 
                            Vanderburgh County
                        , 1880, and U.S., Twelfth Census, Population Schedules for 
                            Vanderburgh County
                        , 1900.
            
            
            
               Table III: Ages of Heads of Black Families, by Sex and Residence, in 
                            Evansville
                         and 
                            Rural Vanderburgh County
                        , Indiana, 1880 and 1900
               
                   
                  Rural
                  Urban
               
               
                   
                  Male
                  Female
                  Male
                  Female
               
               
                  Age/ Year
                  Number of Heads
                  Percent of all Heads
                  Number of Heads
                  Percent of all Heads
                  Number of Heads
                  Percent of all Heads
                  Number of Heads
                  Percent of all Heads
               
               
                  15–20
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  
               
               
                  1880
                  3
                  1.5
                  0
                  0
                  4
                  0.9
                  1
                  0.8
               
               
                  1900
                  1
                  1.3
                  0
                  0
                  3
                  0.3
                  7
                  2.3
               
               
                  21–30
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  
               
               
                  1880
                  73
                  35.4
                  1
                  25.0
                  148
                  32.8
                  46
                  37.4
               
               
                  1900
                  13
                  16.7
                  0
                  0
                  228
                  21.5
                  66
                  21.4
               
               
                  31–40
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  
               
               
                  1880
                  51
                  24.8
                  1
                  25.0
                  153
                  33.9
                  37
                  30.1
               
               
                  1900
                  17
                  21.8
                  0
                  0
                  336
                  31.7
                  75
                  24.3
               
               
                  41–50
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  
               
               
                  1880
                  35
                  17.0
                  0
                  0
                  81
                  18.0
                  25
                  20.3
               
               
                  1900
                  16
                  20.5
                  2
                  40.0
                  266
                  25.1
                  95
                  30.7
               
               
                  51–60
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  
               
               
                  1880
                  32
                  15.5
                  1
                  25.0
                  50
                  11.1
                  5
                  4.1
               
               
                  1900
                  16
                  20.6
                  2
                  40.0
                  155
                  14.6
                  36
                  11.7
               
               
                  61 +
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  
               
               
                  1880
                  12
                  5.8
                  1
                  25.0
                  15
                  3.3
                  9
                  7.3
               
               
                  1900
                  12
                  15.4
                  1
                  20.0
                  70
                  6.6
                  28
                  9.1
               
               
                  Not given
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  
               
               
                  (1900)
                  3
                  3.8
                  0
                  0
                  4
                  0.4
                  1
                  0.3
               
               
                  Total
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  
               
               
                  1880
                  206
                  100.0
                  4
                  100.0
                  451
                  100.0
                  123
                  100.0
               
               
                  1900
                  78
                  100.0
                  5
                  100.0
                  1062
                  100.0
                  308
                  100.0
               
            
            
               Sources: US., Tenth Census, Population Schedules for 
                            Vanderburgh County
                        , 1880; US., Twelfth Census, Population Schedules for 
                            Vanderburgh County
                        , 1900.
            
            
            A more fruitful line of inquiry into the continued presence of large numbers of female heads of black
                    families in 
                        Evansville
                     remains the urban experience itself. In 
                        Evansville
                     in 1880, as noted in Table IV, both literate and illiterate southern-born blacks,
                    presumably from slave and rural backgrounds, were more likely than their northern-born counterparts
                    to head two-parent families. The gap between literate southern- and northern-born heads of
                    two-parent families widened slightly in the intervening years; that between illiterate heads,
                    northern- and southern-born, disppeared. All told, 69.1 percent of northern-born heads were in
                    two-parent families, as compared with 72.1 percent of their southern-born counterparts.
            The availability of work for women in the city and the various forms of social and physical stress
                    present in an urban setting continued to be more significant than birthplace as indicators of the
                    urban influence. As shown in Table V, of the 308 female heads of family in 
                        Evansville
                     in 1900, seventy-three were single, married but not living with spouses, or divorced,
                    probably because of desertion by husbands seeking employment elsewhere or lacking loyalty to their
                    spouses. That 234 female family heads were widows—about 75 percent of all female heads,
                    and about 4 percent more than in 1880—reinforces the view that in the nineteenth century
                    "mortality was the ‘major link between female-headship and the poverty cycle.
                    …’ The most ravaged among the poor were ‘the urban poor blacks,
                    irregularly employed, segregated, and neglected in matters of public
                        health.’"7 The death rate of 
                        Vanderburgh County
                     blacks was, as in 1880, about twice that of native whites: 23.6 per 1,000 for black men
                    and 21.5 per 1,000 for black women. The possibility that a husband might die at any moment due to
                    disease or accident remained "an omnipresent fact of family life for urban
                        blacks."8
            
            Despite such stresses, female family heads adapted to city life in a number of ways. In about
                    two-thirds of the cases of female-headed black families the household included relatives or
                    boarders, or both, who provided financial support and/or child care. Most of the working female
                    heads, moreover, were wash-women, jobs which "although menial allowed mothers the 
                  
                     7 Bigham, "Black Family," 132.
                  
                     8
                            
                                United States
                             Census Office, Bureau of the Interior, Twelfth Census of the 
                                    United States
                                , Taken in the Year 1900, volume III: Vital
                            Statistics (Washington, 1902), Ixxv, 330–31.
               
                    
                    
                  Table IV: Percentage of Black Two–Parent Families by Literacy and Birthplace of
                            the Head of the Family, 
                                Vanderburgh County
                            , 1880 and 1900
                  
                     Section/Year
                     Literate
                     Illiterate
                  
                  
                      
                     Northern-born
                     Southern-born
                     Northern-born
                     Southern-born
                  
                  
                     Urban
                      
                      
                      
                      
                  
                  
                     1880
                     70.3 (N=26)
                     77.6 (N=152)
                     62.5 (N=15)
                     70.1 (N=255)
                  
                  
                     1900
                     70.4 (N=112)
                     78.1 (N=523)
                     64.4 (N=29)
                     63.9 (N=313)
                  
                  
                     Rural
                      
                      
                      
                      
                  
                  
                     1880
                     100.0 (N=6)
                     91.7 (N=77)
                     100.0 (N=1)
                     93.8 (N=121)
                  
                  
                     1900
                     87.5 (N=7)
                     87.2 (N=34)
                     50.0 (N=2)
                     84.4 (N=27)
                  
               
                    
                  Source: US., Tenth Census, Population Schedules for 
                                Vanderburgh County
                            , 1880; US., Twelfth Census, Population Schedules for 
                                Vanderburgh County
                            , 1900. The table is based on Frank Furstenburg, Jr., Theodore Hershberg, and
                            John Modell, "The Origins of the Female-Headed Black Family: The Impact of the
                            Urban Experience," Journal of Interdisciplinary History, VI
                            (August, 1975), 221, Table 4.
               
                    
                    
                  Table V: Marital Status of Black Female Family Heads, 
                                Vanderburgh County
                            , 1880 and 1900
                  
                     
                     
                                Marital Status
                            
                  
                  
                     Section/ Year
                     Total
                     Single
                     Married
                     Divorced
                     Widowed
                     None given
                  
                  
                     Urban
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                  
                  
                     1880
                     123
                     17
                     10
                     7
                     89
                     0
                  
                  
                     1900
                     308
                     24
                     35
                     14
                     234
                     1
                  
                  
                     Rural
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                  
                  
                     1880
                     4
                     0
                     0
                     0
                     4
                     0
                  
                  
                     1900
                     5
                     1
                     2
                     0
                     2
                     0
                  
               
                    
                  Sources: U.S., Tenth Census, Population Schedules for 
                                Vanderburgh County
                            , 1880; U.S., Twelfth Census, Population Schedules for 
                                Vanderburgh County
                            , 1900.
               
                    
                  Table VI: Black Family Structure, 
                                Vanderburgh County
                            , 1880 and 1900
                  
                     Type of Family/ Year
                     Rural
                     Urban
                  
                  
                     
                     Number
                     Percent
                     Number
                     Percent
                  
                  
                     Nuclear
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     1880
                     155
                     73.8
                     293
                     51.0
                  
                  
                     1900
                     60
                     72.3
                     722
                     52.7
                  
                  
                     Extended
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     1880
                     26
                     12.4
                     94
                     16.4
                  
                  
                     1900
                     14
                     16.9
                     254
                     18.5
                  
                  
                     Augmented
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     1880
                     29
                     13.8
                     187
                     32.5
                  
                  
                     1900
                     9
                     10.8
                     394
                     28.8
                  
                  
                     Total
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     1880
                     210
                     100.0
                     574
                     100.0
                  
                  
                     1900
                     83
                     100.0
                     1370
                     100.0
                  
               
                    
                  Sources: US., Tenth Census, Population Schedules for 
                                Vanderburgh County
                            , 1880; U.S., Twelfth Census, Population Schedules for 
                                Vanderburgh County
                            , 1900.
               
                     opportunity to care for their children while also providing a
                    small family income."9
            
            Given the challenges of life in a northern, urban setting, it is not surprising that the black family
                    in 
                        Evansville
                     continued to adapt to the new environment by taking in boarders and lodgers. As
                    indicated in Table VI, rural 
                        Vanderburgh County
                     families remained preponderantly nuclear in composition. The distribution of nuclear,
                    extended, and augmented family types of organization was, in fact, almost the same as it had been
                    twenty years earlier. The same could be said of urban families, as about half were nuclear and about
                    three in ten were augmented. Nearly two of every ten were extended.10
            
            These urban-rural differences were in part the product of occupational patterns, as shown in Table
                    VII. In rural portions of the county in 1880 and 1900 the composition of the family generally did
                    not vary with the occupational status of the head of the family. The increase in the proportion of
                    professional/ proprietary heads of nuclear families between 1880 and 1900 was largely due to the
                    fact that for 1880 the author classified farmers as unskilled-unspecified, since no data were
                    available about property values or home ownership, but in the 1900 census the availability of
                    information about home ownership, when combined with occupation, allowed the designation of some
                    farmers as proprietors. In the city there were some indications in 1900, although fewer than in
                    1880, that family augmentation increased as occupational status decreased, assuming that those
                    persons listing no occupation had the lowest status. The proportion of nuclear families in each
                    occupational category in 1880 and 1900 did not change dramatically. A similar observation might be
                    made about the distribution of extended families, although there was some increase of family
                    extension among families with unskilledhnspecified laborers as heads. The major changes in
                    augmentation patterns appear to have occurred among skilled workers and those listing no job, both
                    of which witnessed increases.
            The addition of boarders and lodgers among urban blacks probably reflected the low economic level of
                    most blacks and the role of the urban family as a shelter for newcomers. The 
                  
                     9 Bigham, "Black Family," 133. For a discussion of
                            socioeconomic conditions facing blacks in that period, see Darrel E. Bigham, "Work,
                            Residence, and the Emergence of the Black Ghetto in 
                                Evansville
                            , Indiana, 1865–1900," Indiana Magazine of
                                History, LXXVI (December, 1980), 287–318. See also U.S., Twelfth Census,
                            Population Schedules for 
                                Vanderburgh County
                            , 1900.
                  
                     10 Bigham, "Black Family," 133–34.
               
                    
                    
                  Table VII: Black Family Structure by Occupation of Head of Family, 
                                Vanderburgh County
                            , 1880 and 1900
                  
                     
                     
                                Percentage of Occupational Categories
                            
                  
                  
                     Section/Type of Family/ Year
                     Professional/Proprietor/ White-Collar
                     Skilled
                     Unskilled/ Specified
                     Unskilled/ Unspecified
                     None
                  
                  
                     Urban
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     Nuclear
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     1880
                     31.3
                     63.5
                     51.7
                     54.9
                     40.5
                  
                  
                     1900
                     46.4
                     57.0
                     51.9
                     57.3
                     35.9
                  
                  
                     Extended
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     1880
                     18.8
                     18.8
                     17.4
                     12.7
                     21.7
                  
                  
                     1900
                     19.6
                     13.9
                     17.0
                     21.3
                     16.5
                  
                  
                     Augmented
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     1880
                     50.0
                     18.8
                     30.9
                     32.4
                     37.7
                  
                  
                     1900
                     33.9
                     29.1
                     31.1
                     21.3
                     47.5
                  
                  
                     Total
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     1880
                     100.0
                     100.0
                     100.0
                     100.0
                     100.0
                  
                  
                     1900
                     100.0
                     100.0
                     100.0
                     100.0
                     100.0
                  
                  
                     Number
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     1880
                     13
                     16
                     230
                     253
                     69
                  
                  
                     1900
                     56
                     79
                     595
                     525
                     115
                  
                  
                     Rural
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     Nuclear
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     1880
                     50.0
                     100.0
                     67.4
                     75.9
                     0
                  
                  
                     1900
                     66.7
                     0
                     37.5
                     88.1
                     100.0
                  
                  
                     Extended
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     1880
                     0
                     0
                     17.4
                     10.6
                     0
                  
                  
                     1900
                     19.4
                     0
                     50.0
                     8.3
                     0
                  
                  
                     Augmented
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     1880
                     50.0
                     0
                     15.2
                     13.5
                     0
                  
                  
                     1900
                     13.9
                     0
                     12.5
                     8.3
                     0
                  
                  
                     Total
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     1880
                     100.0
                     100.0
                     100.0
                     100.0
                     100.0
                  
                  
                     1900
                     100.0
                     100.0
                     100.0
                     100.0
                     100.0
                  
                  
                     Number
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     1880
                     4
                     2
                     46
                     141
                     0
                  
                  
                     1900
                     36
                     0
                     8
                     36
                     3
                  
               
                    
                  Sources: U.S., Tenth Census, Population Schedules for 
                                Vanderburgh County
                            , 1880; U.S., Twelfth Census, Population Schedules for 
                                Vanderburgh County
                            , 1900.
               
                     fact that family augmentation was a significant factor among
                    heads of family at the top occupational categories was undoubtedly the result of two factors. A
                    majority of professionals, proprietors, and white collar workers—for example, clergymen,
                    teachers, and owners of "eating houses" and saloons—were not much
                    better off financially than their unskilled counterparts, and thus augmented households provided
                    needed income. Some blacks, moreover, were able to afford to hire servants or other domestic
                    workers. Urban blacks, in addition, also opened their homes to relatives who were newcomers to 
                        Evansville
                     and who probably benefitted immeasurably from the economic and psychological support
                    which these homes provided. There also continued to be much evidence that several generations of
                    black families migrated northward in groups and settled in multi-generational households in the 
                        Crescent City
                    .11
            
            Birthplace and sex of the family head were, as compared with 1880, more significant conditions
                    affecting family composition. In 1900, as shown in Table VIII, about the same proportion of families
                    were nuclear regardless of the birthplace of family head. The chief change from 1880 appears to have
                    been the increase in the proportion of Indiana- and northern-born family heads who had augmented
                    families and the decline among those with Indiana or northern birthplaces who had extended families.
                    Notable also was the greater proportion of augmented families among these persons than among those
                    with a southern birthplace. That may underscore the relationship between family composition and
                    urban stress, as most northern-born heads were urban-born. Similarly, the higher proportion of 
                        Kentucky
                    - and other southern-born heads who had relatives in their families may illustrate the
                    fact that many extended families migrated to the North as a group and/or provided shelter for
                    relatives seeking a new start in the North.
            Table IX reveals, moreover, that in 1900 the percentage of male-headed families which were nuclear
                    was much higher than that of their female counterparts. By contrast, the proportion of female-headed
                    augmented families was nearly twice that of male-headed augmented families and substantially greater
                    than it had been in 1880. This almost certainly reflected a need for family income, as many female
                    heads were unemployed.
            
               
                  11 U.S., Twelfth Census, Population Schedules for 
                            Vanderburgh County
                        , 1900.
            
            
            
               GRANDMOTHER
                        AND GRANDCHILD, ABOUT 1910
               Courtesy Special Collections Department, Indiana State University 
                            Evansville
                        .
            
            
            
               Table VIII: Black Family Structure by Birthplace of Head of Family, 
                            Vanderburgh County
                        , 1880 and 1900
               
                  Section/ Type of family/ Year
                  Birthplace, by Percentage
               
               
                  
                  Indiana
                  Other Northern
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                  Other Southern
               
               
                  Urban
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Nuclear
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  1880
                  69.8
                  42.9
                  51.1
                  47.2
               
               
                  1900
                  52.6
                  49.1
                  52.5
                  53.5
               
               
                  Extended
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  1880
                  4.7
                  28.6
                  15.3
                  20.2
               
               
                  1900
                  13.0
                  11.3
                  19.2
                  20.5
               
               
                  Augmented
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  1880
                  25.6
                  28.6
                  23.6
                  32.6
               
               
                  1900
                  34.4
                  39.6
                  28.3
                  26.0
               
               
                  Total
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  1880
                  100.0
                  100.0
                  100.0
                  100.0
               
               
                  1900
                  100.0
                  100.0
                  100.0
                  100.0
               
               
                  Number
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  1880
                  43
                  14
                  339
                  182
               
               
                  1900
                  154
                  53
                  741
                  415
               
               
                  Rural
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Nuclear
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  1880
                  66.7
                  33.3
                  73.7
                  76.9
               
               
                  1900
                  91.7
                  0
                  64.4
                  76.9
               
               
                  Extended
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  1880
                  33.3
                  33.3
                  13.2
                  7.7
               
               
                  1900
                  8.3
                  0
                  26.7
                  3.8
               
               
                  Augmented
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  1880
                  0
                  33.3
                  13.1
                  15.4
               
               
                  1900
                  0
                  0
                  8.9
                  19.2
               
               
                  Total
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  1880
                  100.0
                  100.0
                  100.0
                  100.0
               
               
                  1900
                  100.0
                  100.0
                  100.0
                  100.0
               
               
                  Number
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  1880
                  3
                  3
                  152
                  52
               
               
                  1900
                  12
                  0
                  45
                  26
               
            
            
               Sources: U.S., Tenth Census, Population Schedules for 
                            Vanderburgh County
                        , 1880; US., Twelfth Census, Population Schedules for 
                            Vanderburgh County
                        , 1900.
            
            Another means of coping with city life was the sharing of dwellings by families, an arrangement which
                    helped to meet the costs of urban housing. In rural areas there were as many families as there were
                    dwellings, but in 
                        Evansville
                     there were 1,539 households and only 1,329 dwellings, a ratio of 1.2 households per
                    dwelling. A similar ratio had existed twenty years earlier. In census district 89, a portion of Ward
                    2 near 
                    
                  Table IX: Black Family Structure by Sex of Head of Family, 
                                Vanderburgh County
                            , 1880 and 1900
                  
                     Section/ Type of Family/ Year
                     Male
                     Female
                  
                  
                      
                     Number
                     Percent
                     Number
                     Percent
                  
                  
                     Urban
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     Nuclear
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     1880
                     234
                     51.9
                     59
                     48.0
                  
                  
                     1900
                     604
                     56.9
                     116
                     37.7
                  
                  
                     Extended
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     1880
                     70
                     15.5
                     24
                     19.5
                  
                  
                     1900
                     201
                     18.9
                     55
                     17.9
                  
                  
                     Augmented
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     1880
                     147
                     32.6
                     40
                     32.5
                  
                  
                     1900
                     257
                     24.2
                     137
                     44.5
                  
                  
                     Total
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     1880
                     451
                     100.0
                     123
                     100.0
                  
                  
                     1900
                     1062
                     100.0
                     308
                     100.0
                  
                  
                     Rural
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     Nuclear
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     1880
                     153
                     74.2
                     2
                     50.0
                  
                  
                     1900
                     57
                     73.1
                     3
                     60.0
                  
                  
                     Extended
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     1880
                     24
                     11.7
                     2
                     50.0
                  
                  
                     1900
                     14
                     17.9
                     0
                     0
                  
                  
                     Augmented
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     1880
                     29
                     14.1
                     0
                     0
                  
                  
                     1900
                     7
                     9.0
                     2
                     40.0
                  
                  
                     Total
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     1880
                     206
                     100.0
                     4
                     100.0
                  
                  
                     1900
                     78
                     100.0
                     5
                     100.0
                  
               
                    
                  Sources: U.S., Tenth Census, Population Schedules for 
                                Vanderburgh County
                            , 1880; U.S., Twelfth Census, Population Schedules for 
                                Vanderburgh County
                            , 1900.
                the old 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal which had one of the highest concentrations of blacks, the ratio was two
                    to one. The ratio for all 
                        Evansville
                     families, white and black, was 1.1 to 1. Urban black families were, by contrast,
                    smaller than their rural counterparts, a situation similar to that of 1880. The average rural family
                    had 5.0 members, as compared with 4.7 among 
                        Evansville
                     families. The average family size for the city, whites and blacks included, was
                    slightly larger: 5.1.12
            
            
               
                  12
                        Ibid. and Bigham, "Black Family," 140–45. See
                        also US. Census Office, Twelfth Census of the 
                                United States
                            , Taken in the Year 1900, volume II, part 2: Population
                        (Washington, 1902). 617. One reason for the smaller size of urban black families may have been
                        that the heads of city families were younger
            
            
            The addition of data from the 1900 federal population schedules of 
                        Vanderburgh County
                    , in short, supports the conclusions made about family life in the Ohio
                    River county in 1880. Life was harsh for most blacks—perhaps even more so than
                    before—but families adjusted to the vagaries of city life. The two-parent family remained
                    the core of black society; such adaptations as the augmented family are further evidence of the
                    continued importance of the family among 
                        Evansville
                     blacks. The existence of the black family in this rapidly industrializing community
                    reflects a strong respect for and retention of traditional ideas and the ability to meet the demands
                    of urban life.
            
               (Table III). That is reinforced by data made available for the first time in the 1900
                        census—length of marriage, number of children born of the marriage, and number of
                        children living. In rural sections about 68 percent of the couples had been married for twenty
                        years or less, as compared with slightly over 80 percent of the couples in sample sections of 
                            Evansville
                         selected because they were representative in terms of location, occupational
                        patterns, and black-white ratios (census districts 80, 86, 90, 100, 107, and 126, which provided
                        a total sample of 238 families). In the country nearly 32 percent—as compared with
                        about 20 percent in the city—had been married for more than twenty years. In
                        addition, 49 percent of rural couples had had five or more children, as compared with 40 percent
                        of urban couples. There was little difference in the percentage of children living. For example,
                        43.5 percent of rural couples and 44.1 percent of urban couples had three-quarters to all of
                        their children living. See U.S., Twelfth Census, Population Schedules for 
                            Vanderburgh County
                        , 1900.
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            A History of the Indiana Historical Society, 1830–1980. By Lana
                    Ruegamer. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1980. Pp. ix, 383. Illustrations, notes, appendixes, note
                    on sources, index. $15.00.)
            American historical societies have been an important factor in the preservation and dissemination of
                    the nation's history, but they have received little attention in studies of the historical
                    profession. To many professional historians they no doubt represent little more than book,
                    microfilm, and manuscript depositories staffed by library bookrunners. In fact, however, the
                    nation's historical societies have played a greater role than this in the study of history.
                    The Mississippi Valley Historical Association, to name just one example, was
                    founded by a group of historical society administrators, not academic historians. Lana
                    Ruegarner's history of the Indiana Historical Society provides a valuable reminder of the
                    place of historical societies in the historical profession.
            Throughout the 152 years of its history the Indiana Historical Society has been a private
                    institution, though not always, as the author notes, by choice. From its founding in 1830 until 1886
                    it had only a small library and no quarters to speak of, and meetings of its members were often
                    separated by periods of many years. Rather than simply a smaller version of the present society, it
                    might better be envisioned as comparable to many modern local historical societies. To a large
                    extent it existed only in the minds of the small group of men who founded and supported it. It had
                    neither the independent momentum of substantial physical facilities nor the assurance of
                    continuation offered by a permanent state appropriation. The Indiana Historical Society in these
                    years might best be described as an intellectual concept.
            This began to change after 1886, when three local historians—Daniel W. Howe, William H.
                    English, and particularly Jacob P. Dunn, Jr.—took an interest in developing the society
                    as a vehicle for publishing their own work in Indiana history. Under their leadership, the society
                    was transformed into a gentleman's club of a very limited number of professional men from
                    the 
                        Indianapolis
                     area. The members' financial backing gave the society much more permanence
                    than it had known up to that time, but its goals and its ability to fulfill them were still very
                    limited. Periodic appeals for a state appropriation were amost always rejected. But perhaps more
                    important than  this, as Ruegamer points out, the society still
                    lacked a professional historical administrator dedicated to making the growth of the Indiana
                    Historical Society his lifework.
            It found such an administrator in Christopher B. Coleman. In 1924 Coleman was elected secretary of
                    the society and appointed director of the Indiana Historical Commission, the state historical agency
                    which had been created in 1915. This dual position was important because it provided for
                    administrative coordination of the society's programs with those of a state agency backed
                    by a regular appropriation. At about the same time the society received a substantial bequest from
                    the estate of Delavan Smith, the publisher of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News; this was used to establish a historical library, which eventually was housed
                    in the State Library and Historical Building when that structure was completed in 1934. By joining
                    forces with the Historical Commission and continuing its longstanding association with the
                    independently published Indiana Magazine of History, the society was able to
                    expand its programs to reach a much broader segment of Indiana's population and thus became
                    a truly statewide organization. One of these programs, to which Ruegamer devotes a full chapter in
                    her book, was a major archaeological survey directed by Glenn Black and funded by Eli Lilly.
            Lilly was, in fact, important to the society both as an officer and as a financial mainstay from the
                    1930s until his death in 1977. The bequest from his estate increased the society's
                    endowment to more than $22 million by 1979 and opened up a new era in the
                    society's history, allowing it greatly to expand its earlier programs and to experiment
                    with new ideas about the work of a historical society, opportunities its previous 150 years of
                    financial stringency had never offered.
            Ruegamer's book is a well-documented and very readable account of the history of a private
                    historical society that experienced the full evolution from a gentleman's club devoted to
                    the study of pioneer history to a professional institution serving both the scholarly community and
                    the general public.
            
               
                  
                            Iowa
                         State Historical Department, Division of the State Historical Society, 
                            Iowa City
                        
                Alan M. Schroder
         
         
         
            
               The Diary of Calvin Fletcher. Volume VIII, 1863–1864:
                        Including Letters to and from Calvin Fletcher. Edited by Gayle Thornbrough and Paula
                    Corpuz. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1981. Pp. xxvii, 546. Illustrations, notes, index.
                    $10.00.)
            Despite the explosion of new social science methodologies in recent years, one of the enduring
                    questions of historical inquiry, posed by professionals and amateurs alike, remains: "What
                    was life really like back then?" The diary of Calvin Fletcher, Hoosier lawyer, banker,
                    farmer, and sometime politician, goes a long way toward answering that question for
                    nineteenth-century America, offering a rare look at day-to-day existence, the warp and woof of
                    events both great and small that made up the fabric of life. Fletcher himself remarked the richness
                    of the tapestry as he concluded one entry: "The day has been fraught with
                    joy—sadness, danger & toil—a checkered varigated
                    life—interspersed with hopes fears—health & sickness pain &
                    joy all in the same hour" (p. 483).
            In the present volume Fletcher's business career continues to wind down, and he devotes
                    increasing time to his beloved farms where, in his mid-sixties, he labors long hours alongside the
                    hired hands. His charitable work continues unabated, as does his religious fervor, and few days pass
                    when he does not plead, "May God direct me." The Civil War naturally looms large.
                    Fletcher assists in the recruitment of troops, but generally we see him as the citizen-observer,
                    worried over the safety of his sons in the field and anxiously trying to sift reality from rumor in
                    the newspaper reports on the progress of arms. In mid-1863 he attributes the lagging war effort to
                    the "imbecility & ineffeciency" (p. 164) of the Lincoln administration,
                    but during a brief interview in 
                        Washington
                     in early 1864 he notes that the President "seemed plain &
                    kind" (p. 319). With the tide having turned in favor of the Union armies, Fletcher regards
                    Lincoln's re-election in November as "a great political & moral
                    triumph" (p. 471).
            Although much of the diary is taken up with minutiae and routine, there are also tantalizing tidbits
                    that throw light on issues of broader concern to historians. The constrictive reality of a
                    woman's assigned place—even that of an upper-middle-class woman—is
                    strikingly revealed when Fletcher records that his wife "laments the want of early
                    education of the profound kind—says she has had a knowledge of her deficiencies to the
                    extent that has paralized her energies" (p. 293). On the other end of the social scale, we
                    see Fletcher continually vexed by the  "women of ill
                    fame" (p. 92) who lure soldiers to liaisons on his farms. New political historians who
                    posit a connection between ethnocultural orientation and political affiliation will find
                    confirmation in Fletcher's observation after the 1864 election that the German Protestant
                    population had "gradually come to the sustaining of the union wheras the Irish French
                    & German catholic people of foreign & native birth have grown more alien &
                    unfavorable to the integrity of the U. states" (p. 471).
            Perhaps most instructive are the passages illustrating race relations. A letter from
                    Fletcher's son in the army speaks of the contempt of Union soldiers for "the cussed nigged (p. 57). On the home front, Fletcher notes that free blacks in 
                        Indianapolis
                     "seem to have no sympathy for the new colored brother just fled from
                    Slavery" (p. 4761, and his white neighbors threaten him for placing a black man in charge
                    of one of his farms. Few readers will doubt Fletcher's great sympathy and charity for
                    blacks, but it is equally apparent that he welcomes the new source of inexpensive labor represented
                    by the contrabands in Indiana, even though he is sometimes exasperated by "these fickle
                    colered men" (p. 342).
            On April 30, 1864, Fletcher closes the day's entry with the hope that his diary may afford
                    "those who may chance to read … my dottings, some information if not
                    pleasure" (p. 385). Indeed, it affords much of both.
            
               Austin Peay State University, Clarksville, Tenn. Charles W. Calhoun
         
         
            
               Indiana Authors and Their Books, 1967–1980. Compiled by Donald E.
                    Thompson. (
                        Crawfordsville
                    , Ind.: Wabash College, 1981. Pp. xv, 475. Notes, index.)
            This is the third (though not so numbered) volume of Indiana Authors. The first was
                    compiled by the late Richard E. Banta and published in 1949; Donald E. Thompson carried on the
                    project, publishing the second volume in 1974. The criteria for author inclusion has remained the
                    same throughout the series: one must have been born in the state or lived in Indiana "for
                    at least twenty to twenty-five years."
            Authors omitted from the two earlier volumes and contemporary authors are included in this work.
                    Thanks to Banta and Thompson, we now have a virtually complete record of Indiana writers from
                    statehood (1816) through 1980. This enormous task of painstaking effort has resulted in a convenient
                    record of  biographical and bibliographical information on 6,819
                    people who qualify as Indiana authors.
            A great variety of material spanning fiction, poetry, drama, history, and science is listed. Indeed,
                    everything written by Indiana authors except pamphlets of less than twenty-four pages, textbooks,
                    laboratory manuals, periodical articles, state and federal documents, genealogies, "books
                    of problems," and unpublished manuscripts is included.
            
               Indiana Authors has been a frequently used reference work. The publication of this
                    third volume, with an author index to the entire series, further increases its usefulness. All
                    librarians and researchers are obligated greatly to Donald Thompson for his dedication and
                    perserverance in bringing this third volume to a most successful conclusion.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                Cecil K. Byrd
         
         
            
               Land of the Millrats. By Richard M. Dorson. (
                        Cambridge
                    : Harvard University Press, 1981. Pp. xii, 251. Maps, illustrations, bibliographical
                    note, index. $22.50.)
            The outgrowth of a project studying urban folklore in northwest Indiana, this fascinating book
                    expands the parameters of folklore research beyond the antiquities of marginal cultures,
                    concentrating on what Richard M. Dorson referred to as "the mainstream culture of urban
                    centers" in order to "interpret the data as a mirror on the present" (p.
                    2). At once scholarly and readable, sophisticated and well organized, filled with charming anecdotes
                    and provocative insights, Land of the Millrats documents the cultural richness and
                    pressing social problems of the Calumet Region in a manner useful to urban anthropologists as well
                    as scholars in other disciplines. Organizing his field work along five paths of inquiry, Dorson
                    hoped to discover whether this heavily industrialized conurbation, nicknamed "De
                    Region," had generated a distinctive folklore about itself; whether there existed a
                    "folklore of steel" comparable to documented traditions concerning lumberjacks,
                    cowboys, miners, and oil drillers; whether ethnic folkways interacted in the life of the Region;
                    whether urban middle-class blacks had an identifiable folklore; and whether contemporary recitals of
                    criminal acts could be classed as modern folktales. His research led Dorson to answer all these
                    queries with an unequivocal yes.
            What Dorson called "The Mystique of the Region" lay primarily in the minds of its
                    mostly blue-collar ethnic, black,  and hillbilly residents.
                    Downstaters, he discovered, tended to regard "De Region" as a polluted,
                    crime-ridden, corrupt "Hellhole of the Universe." The satirical books of 
                        Hammond
                    -born Jean Shepherd contributed to a stereotype of ugliness, of dilapidated towns
                    "overshadowed by smokestacks of steel mills belching into the sky, dinosaur diesel trucks
                    racing across freeways, glittering ashdumps and junkyards" (p. 27). Dorson found sub-images
                    within the Region: of 
                        Gary
                     as black, boarded up, and unsafe; of 
                        Hammond
                     as a drab patchwork of railway crossings and Polish neighborhoods; of 
                        East Chicago
                     as a decaying city with a large Latin population; of Whiting as noted for Slovak bars
                    and oil refineries; and of bedroom suburbs such as Munster and Merrillville populated mostly by
                    arrivistes apprehensive of nonwhites moving in among them. Dorson's informants share some
                    of these perceptions, depending on where they live. Most move within a narrow orbit or
                    "mental map" of familiar zones and danger spots determined by "economic
                    and social needs, personal preferences and fears" (p. 14). Urban legends and anecdotes
                    illuminate these landmarks and pathways.
            The most comprehensive chapter, on the "Folklore of Steel," describes the loathing
                    of mill work as well as the emoluments ("golden handcuffs") which keep workers at
                    their jobs. One rich vein of lore concerns the "Old Days" prior to unions and
                    computerized technology, when laborers allegedly "never missed a day" and had
                    pride in their work despite wretched conditions. In contrast, most contemporary narrative tales fit
                    into the categories of "Mill Thefts," "Canteen Ripoffs," and
                    "Goofing Off." One narrative motif concerns deaths and accidents—narrow
                    escapes, close calls, and grotesque fatalities involving freight cars, errant slabs, and falling
                    into "the heat" (molten steel). Each mill seemed to have its cast of
                    near-legendary characters, old-timers and greenhorns, sad sacks and blasphemers, the ugly and the
                    tidy, the saintly and the unsavory.
            In looking at ethnic groups, Dorson concentrated less on Old World retentions than on unfolding
                    ethnic lifestyles in the Region among Greek students, Serbian workers, young Puerto Ricans, and the
                    like. He set forth four recurring categories of events: presentational-public (such as festivals and
                    theatrical performances to present the ethnic bloc to outsiders); historical-civic (including
                    activities to protect group interests, give vent to hatreds of traditional enemies, and foster
                    pride); communal-social (usually church-related and celebrating special  rites and holidays); and esoteric-private (reflected in such traditions
                    as domestic folk arts, musical instrument making, jokes, proverbs, and medicinal remedies).
            The chapter on "Black Outlooks" maintains that in spite of the prevailing white
                    view of 
                        Gary
                     as a failed city, the most common black middle-class narrative genre is the
                    autobiographical "success story." Preachers, mill workers, businessmen, a
                    quiltmaker—all tell of overcoming great odds and discovering creative outlets for their
                    talents, often outside their regular vocation. Another common theme is 
                        Gary
                    's political redemption as a result of Richard G. Hatcher's election
                    as mayor. "These Garyites exhibit perhaps the strongest sense of attachment to place of any
                    of the Region's people," Dorson concluded, "for they are staying
                    put" (p. 212).
            Dorson's daring book blurs the distinctions between folklore, history, sociology, and
                    popular culture. While not ignoring tales of vanishing hitchhikers, victims of the evil eye, and
                    ghostly faces appearing at the top of "a heat," Dorson concentrated on
                    contemporary attitudes about crime, assimilation, and the hatefulness of industrial work. Some
                    historians might criticize his method of recording informant assertions without much attempt to
                    separate myth from reality. This is not an exhaustive account of race, ethnicity, work habits, or
                    crime in northwest Indiana; but Dorson's self-styled "foray" into
                    "De Region" yielded a rich harvest of information. Skeptics might ask whether all
                    this is really folklore, but Dorson's explanations are brilliantly convincing.
            
               Indiana University Northwest, 
                            Gary
                        
                James B. Lane
         
         
            
               When The Truth Is Told: A History of Black Women's Culture and Community in
                        Indiana, 1875–1950. By Darlene Clark Hine. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : National Council of Negro Women, 
                        Indianapolis
                     Section, 1981. Pp. 90. Illustrations, notes, appendixes. Paperbound, $9.00.)
            
               When The Truth Is Told is a book much too small for its very broad title. To
                    attempt to compress seventy-five years of the history of black women in Indiana into eighty-three
                    pages of narrative was from its inception an impractical effort; the result of Darlene Clark
                    Hine's attempt is, consequently, decidedly inadequate. What purports to be a history of
                    Indiana black women is, in fact, narrowly focused on 
                        Indianapolis
                     and, more particularly, on that city's club and church women. Women in other
                    parts of the state and women who, for whatever  reason, eschewed
                    club alliances or shunned church leadership roles are largely ignored. The occasional references to
                    women in other parts of the state, even the chapter devoted to Sally Stewart of 
                        Evansville
                    , do not sufficiently expand the book's focus to qualify it as a
                    "history of Black women's culture and community in Indiana." The
                    parochialism of the book is perhaps understandable since it was commissioned by the 
                        Indianapolis
                     section of the National Council of Negro Women. This fact does not, however, exempt the
                    historian from fidelity to the book's title. While When The Truth Is Told
                    is interesting to read, its narrowness misses much of the true spirit of black women's
                    culture and community—that which is better represented by housewives, mothers,
                    beauticians, domestic workers, clerks, postal workers, and other non-joiners than by the membership
                    of select, often elitist, clubs.
            Because of a paucity of source materials, Hine's topic is admittedly difficult to research.
                    Perhaps this fact explains her excessive reliance on a limited number of materials from the National
                    Council of Negro Women collections of memoirs and records. It does not, however, explain her failure
                    to include women from areas outside central Indiana in her interviews. Surprisingly, few newspaper
                    references are cited as sources and only in the chapter on Sally Stewart are there citations from non-
                        Indianapolis
                     papers. The under-utilization of black newspapers as sources is especially puzzling.
                    Neither the sources cited nor the book's content support the author's claim of
                    having travelled "the length and breadth of Indiana" to research it.
            An especially troubling aspect of the book is its failure to integrate the history of black women in
                    Indiana into the historical mainstream of the seventy-five years it covers. The post-World War I
                    migrations of blacks from the South, for example, are only briefly mentioned. The Depression, World
                    Wars I and 11, the New Deal, politics, civil rights—all are similarly glossed over. For
                    example, there is scant notice of the women who went to work in defense plants and steel mills
                    during World War II and, in their own way, ushered in a new era of non-domestic employment outside
                    the home and significantly affected the cultural and economic structure of the black community.
            
               When the Truth Is Told is information, not history. Yet it represents an initial
                    entry into a sorely neglected area of historical inquiry. It is to be hoped that Hine's
                    effort may serve as a point of departure for a more thoroughly researched work on this important
                    subject.
            
               Gary Community School Corporation, 
                            Gary
                        
                Patricia J. Harris
         
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Wisconsin
                         Medicine: Historical Perspectives. Edited by Ronald L. Numbers and Judith
                    Walzer Leavitt. (
                        Madison
                    : University of 
                        Wisconsin
                     Press, 1981. Pp. ix, 212. End map, notes, illustrations, tables, figures, selected
                    sources, index. $18.50.)
            This book is divided into eight chapters, each an independent essay on a particular facet of health
                    care in 
                        Wisconsin
                    . Taken together, these essays (written by eleven authors) provide a succinct overview
                    of 
                        Wisconsin
                    's medical history.
            The book covers a wide range of subjects, beginning with a discussion of frontier medicine that
                    recounts the trials of the doctor on horseback in the 
                        Wisconsin
                     Territory. Subsequent essays describe the practice of medicine in the period between
                    statehood and the Great Depression and tell the history of medical societies and hospitals in 
                        Wisconsin
                    . An unusual chapter, entitled "Sectarians and Scientists: Alternatives to
                    Orthodox Medicine," provides an informative treatment of the competition between the
                    regulars, or allopaths, and the homeopaths, hydropaths, eclectics, osteopaths, and practitioners of
                    Christian Science. Also of interest are chapters comparing health care in the rural and urban areas
                    of 
                        Wisconsin
                     and a discussion of medical education in the state.
            The book is generously illustrated and easily read. Each chapter is followed by an extensive
                    bibliography, and the final pages of the book are concerned with selected sources for those who
                    would like to go beyond the limits of this little volume. Although the material concerns 
                        Wisconsin
                    , there are many aspects of this history that would apply to any of the midwest-ern
                    states.
            
               
                  
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana Charles A. Bonsett, M.D.
         
         
            
               Shucks, Shocks, and Hominy Blocks: Corn as a Way of Life in Pioneer America. By
                    Nicholas P. Hardeman. (
                        Baton Rouge
                    : 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press, 1981. Pp. xii, 271. Illustrations, bibliography, index.
                    $20.00.)
            Nicholas P. Hardeman has written a lively social history of the king of American
                    agriculture—corn. Coming from a pioneer family himself, Hardeman has presented a
                    cornucopia of information about America's most important crop. He covers the whole of
                    American history from how the settlers of Jamestown were saved from starvation by Indian corn to
                    Jimmy Carter's 1980 grain embargo. If you want to find out about the evolution of the plow,
                    it's here. If you want to learn about the techniques 
                    of plowing and harvesting, this book is for you. And if you ever wondered about the making of
                    moonshine, look no further.
            Cotton has attracted more historians; wheat is a more important grain for human consumption; but, as
                    the author reveals, corn is basic in understanding America, as basic as individualism, love of the
                    land, and the work ethic.
            More than a staff of life, it was a way of life. Corn was vital to the American experience,
                    influencing art, culture, and family life. Perhaps because it was so obviously important, few books
                    have been written on the subject, and of these only Dorothy Giles's 
                  Singing Valleys: The Story of Corn, published four decades ago,
                    approaches Hardeman's work in style and substance.
            Corn was much more than a commodity to Americans, it was a celebration. The husking bee was the most
                    celebrated social event of frontier life. For slaves in the South, it was among the best of times,
                    not just because of the extra dollar they might be given, but for the community effort that this
                    experience called forth.
            Corn also left its imprint on America's dietary habits. Corn bread, corn chowder, corn mush,
                    and johnny cakes were staples of the diet just as they were gastronomical abominations to European
                    visitors. Along with salt pork and pie, this diet seldom varied. The taste for strong drink,
                    especially "corn likker," can be traced not only to the abundance of corn produced
                    in America but to the blandness of the American diet.
            Corn has had a symbolic value to America, as anyone knows who has heard the lyrics from Rodgers and
                    Hammerstein's 
                        
                            Oklahoma
                        
                    —-"the corn is as high as a elephant's eye"—or
                    seen the ears of corn included on friezes and columns in the nation's capitol. The words
                    corny, cornball, and corn pone conjure up an earlier, bucolic life.
            Students of the American Revolution might well look to changes in America's eating habits as
                    signposts pointing toward revolution. Ben 
                        Franklin
                    , in an attack on the British in 1766, wrote, "hoecake is better than a
                    Yorkshire muffin." Stephen Vincent Benet caught the significance of this change when he
                    stated in Western Star:
                    
                        And they ate the white corn-kernels, parched in the sun, And they knew it not, but
                            they'd not be English again.
                    
            
            For urban Americans, here is a book that recaptures another way of life. For those who live in the
                    country, the work  offers a chance to reflect on those enduring
                    values that grew with the corn down on the farm.
            
               Purdue University Calumet, 
                            Hammond
                        , Ind. Richard A. Van Orman
         
         
            
               Witnesses to a Vanishing America: The Nineteenth–Century Response. By
                    Lee Clark Mitchell. (
                  Princeton, N.J.
               : 
                        Princeton
                     University Press, 1981. Pp. xvii, 320. Illustrations, notes, selected bibliography,
                    index. $18.50.)
            Scholars have repeatedly focused on the nineteenth century's confidence in progress.
                    Spokesmen of the era believed not only that the young nation would conquer the wilderness but that
                    from the process of mastery would emerge a better society than mankind had ever experienced.
                    Criticisms about the destruction of the natural landscape, according to such treatments, came
                    belatedly in association with the conservation movement of this century or the general
                    disillusionment of the 1920s.
            In this perceptive study, Lee Clark Mitchell does not attack the conventional view of
                    nineteenth-century American attitudes, but he argues persuasively that many misgivings about the
                    vanished wilderness can be detected among witnesses of the time. 
                        Mitchell
                     wisely does not attempt to overstate his thesis. He admits, for example, that many of
                    the early doubters were still convinced of the ultimate benefits of conquering the wilderness or
                    felt a sense of regret without fully comprehending what the alterations meant. Overall, however, 
                        Mitchell
                    's discussion indicates that a loose progression existed in the
                    minority's criticisms. The early doubts tended to be inchoate, but misgivings were more
                    frequently and strongly expressed as the century developed.
            
               
                        Mitchell
                     draws upon a wide range of evidence in substantiating his thesis and demonstrates
                    imaginative use of sources. He reassesses, for example, numerous literary notables (among them
                    Irving, Parkman, Twain, and Melville) and treats the many artists and photographers who sought to
                    preserve a visual image of the original landscape. He also examines the amazing propensity of
                    Americans to found historical societies, collect documents and artifacts, and record their memories
                    of pioneer life.
            Perhaps the author's most innovative contribution is his skillful and intelligent tracing of
                    American society's changing  attitudes toward the
                    Indian as a reflection of whites' self doubts. In his early chapters, 
                        Mitchell
                     analyzes the nostalgic image of the Indian in various works of fiction such as
                    Cooper's Leatherstocking Tales. In a later chapter, "Toward Cultural
                    Relativism," he turns to a more specific examination of the evolution of anthropology from
                    the highly ethnocentric views of the early nineteenth century to the more enlightened perceptions of
                    scholars such as Frank Hamilton Cushing and Franz Boas. The author is unusually successful in
                    showing the relationship between concern for conservation and respect for indigenous people.
            As seems typical of many intellectual histories, this book's organization is occasionally
                    redundant and confusing. Readability improves considerably as the study progresses. Despite the
                    writing problems, this is a solidly researched, insightful, and exciting first book.
            
               Purdue University, 
                            West Lafayette
                        
                Donald L. Parman
         
         
            
               The American Frontier Revisited. By Margaret Walsh. (Atlantic Highlands, 
                        N.J.
                    : Humanities Press, 1981. Pp. 88. Notes, tables, maps, select bibliography, index.
                    Paperbound, $5.00.)
            Almost a century ago Frederick Jackson Turner delivered his paper on "The Significance of
                    the Frontier in American History" at the World's Congress of Historians in 
                        Chicago
                    . With his explanation of American history as a process of "European germs
                    developing in an American environment," Turner introduced the analytical approach to the
                    study of the American West and endeavored, as the late Ray Allen Bil-lington noted, to promote the
                    study of the "Great West" as a field of legitimate historical scholarship. He
                    certainly succeeded. Perhaps no historian has had a professional paper examined so intensely. The
                    Turner hypothesis has been modified and revised, but it largely has stood the test of time.
            
               The American Frontier Revisited is just that, a re-examination of parts of the
                    Turner hypothesis from an economic perspective and a discussion of what historians have written on
                    the subject. Margaret Walsh of the University of Birmingham, 
                        England
                    , uses a topical, analytical, and interpretive approach, stressing four themes: the
                    availability of "free land"; agricultural development; the non-agricultural stages
                    of western growth; and the demographic aspect of settlement. For  each theme she introduces Turner's views, examines criticisms by later historians, and
                    evaluates the validity of the original hypothesis. Particularly valuable is her case-study
                    examination of six farming frontiers ranging from the Genessee Valley to the
                    Far West, an examination which leads her to conclude that "frontier farming suggests
                    diversity rather than similarity in the process of settlement" (p. 42). Although this
                    conflicts with Turner's repetitive pattern, she recognizes that the hypothesis is not
                    totally invalid since it can be applied to some regions and contrasted with others.
            This objective, thoughtful study shows an awareness of controversial parts of the Turner hypothesis.
                    It also provides insights into nineteenth-century Indiana experiences and will be most useful as a
                    problem study for students and historians of the American West and the 
                        United States
                    .
            
               Purdue University, 
                            West Lafayette
                        
                Oakah L. Jones
         
         
            
               Mary Chesnut's Civil War. Edited by C. Vann Woodward.
                            (
                  New Haven, Conn.
               : Yale University Press, 1981. Pp. lviii, 886. Illustrations,
                    notes, index. $29.95.)
            "I write daily for my own distractions. These memoirs pour servir may some
                    future day afford dates, facts, and prove useful to more important people than I am. I do not wish
                    to do any harm or to hurt anyone. … It is hard, in such a hurry as things are in, to
                    separate wheat from chafl" (p. 301). Written by Mary Boykin Chesnut on March 10, 1862, as
                    the Civil War entered its second year, these words restate the purpose for which Chesnut claimed she
                    began her diary. Mary Chesnut did indeed chronicle events of the Confederacy between 1861 and 1865,
                    but she continued to work on her diary until her death in 1886. C. Vann Woodward has now issued a
                    definitive edition of this diary, using not only the 1880s version, as previous editors have done (A
                        Diary from Dixie, 1905, 1949), but also material from the 1860s version and
                    later revisions.
            Mary Chesnut, a South Carolinian and wife of James Chesnut, the first southern senator to resign
                    after Lincoln's election, reported daily on social gossip and events such as parties,
                    marriages, and funerals, as well as on political intrigues among Confederate leaders and military
                    strategy. She remained loyal to the Confederacy, although at times she criticized the actions of its
                    leaders. Her diary entry of April 27, 1862, reads: "
                        New Orleans
                     gone—and with it the Confederacy.  Are
                    we not cut in two? … The Confederacy done to death by the politicians. What wonder we are
                    lost. Those wretched creatures the Congress and the legislature could never rise to the greatness of
                    the occasion. They seem to think they were in a neighborhood squabble about precedence. The soldiers
                    have done their duty" (p. 330).
            Although she believed black slaves were inferior and often dirty and lazy, she was antislavery from
                    beginning to end. "I wonder if it be a sin to think slavery a curse to any land
                    … God forgive us, but ours is a monstrous system and wrong and
                    iniquity. Perhaps the rest of the world is as bad—this only I see. Like
                    the patriarchs of old our men live all in one house with their wives and their concubines, and the
                    mulattoes one sees in every family exactly resemble the white children—and every lady
                    tells you who is the father of all the mulatto children in everybody's household, but those
                    in her own she seems to think drop from the clouds, or pretends so to think (p. 29).
            Woodward's edition of Chesnut's diary, heavily and superbly annotated, presents the
                    most complete picture yet of this unique southern woman. This edition is enhanced even more by the
                    fine introduction and elaborate index. Without a doubt, this is one of the best memoirs of the Civil
                    War, and it will be praised by historians as well as by all those interested in the story of human
                    life.
            
               Indiana Historical Society, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                Paula Corpuz
         
         
            
               The Union, the Civil War, and John W. Tuttle: A 
                            Kentucky
                         Captain's Account. Edited by Hambleton Tapp and James C. Klotter. (
                        Frankfort
                    : 
                        Kentucky
                     Historical Society, 1980. Pp. xv, 298. Illustrations, notes, maps, appendix, index.
                    $20.00.)
            Captain John W. Tuttle, a native of 
                  Mill Springs,
                            Kentucky
               , was an intelligent and
                    perceptive young lawyer who saw extended service during the Civil War as a Union soldier in the
                    Third 
                        Kentucky
                     Infantry Regiment. From June, 1860, until early 1867, Tuttle faithfully kept a diary.
                    Numbering over 600 manuscript pages, Tuttle's account covers most of the major campaigns in
                    the western theater of war: 
                  Shiloh, Perryville, Murfreesboro,
                            Chickamauga, Chattanooga
               , and 
                        Atlanta
                    .
            The work is important not only for what it says about the war generally and about the specific
                    campaigns, but also because  Tuttle represents well the
                    attitudes of Kentuckians who supported the Union in a deeply divided state. Perhaps, too,
                    Tuttle's diary is more representative of the experience of the average fighting man than
                    would be expected of an officer's account. Whether sick, injured, bored, impetuous, or even
                    lost, Tuttle is seemingly always frank, open, and critical, both of his contemporaries and himself.
                    Because of his wit, penchant for understatement, and ability to laugh at himself, the
                    captain's style is readable and interesting. The diary clearly establishes that Tuttle
                    liked people and, whenever the war permitted, enjoyed a continual round of social activities.
            The following is a good example of the officer's writing, as Tuttle expounded upon those who
                    made the best officers: 
                        As a class, school teachers on account of close attention to details, their patient and
                            methodical performance of routine, and their experience in the enforcement of discipline,
                            made the best officers not only in our regiment but throughout both armies. The preachers
                            showed up well but were perhaps just a little too severe and tyrannical. The lawyers, good
                            easy-going, liberal minded creatures, had generally better stayed at home though a few of
                            them made splendid officers. But for all purposes and without exception, the politicians
                            were the very poorest sticks in the service (p. 45).
                    
            
            After being wounded at 
                        Chickamauga
                    , the captain's diary entry read: 
                        Sat up but very little today owing to severe pain in my leg. The Surgeon took the bandage off
                            tonight when the rather amusing discovery was made that my leg was broken in two places
                            instead of one. It appears somewhat singular that this little circumstance should have
                            escaped the observation of the many scientific gentlemen of the Medical profession who have
                            operated upon it (p. 144).
                    
            
            The editors have performed a commendable work in reducing the original diary manuscript, which was
                    about twice as long as this published version. They have also provided helpful notations,
                    particularly about Tuttle's friends, while omitting lengthy notes on battles and strategy
                    on the assumption that the reader will be familiar with the military campaigns. All in all, the view
                    of the war as seen by the 
                        Kentucky
                     captain is lively and human—a good story from an appealing personality.
            
               David Lipscomb College, 
                            Nashville
                        , Tenn. James Lee McDonough
         
         
         
            
               The Image of War, 1861–1865. Volume I, Shadows of the
                        Storm. Edited by William C. Davis, for the National Historical Society.
                            (
                  Garden City, N.Y.
               : Doubleday & Company, Inc., 1981. Pp. 464. End map,
                    illustrations, index. $29.95.)
            With Shadows of the Storm the National Historical Society introduces its six-volume
                    series The Image of War. Intended as an outlet for unpublished Civil War
                    photographs held by historical agencies and individuals, the series supplements Francis T.
                    Miller's Photographic History of the Civil War and transcends that
                    work's shortcomings. After six years of international research that uncovered 100,000
                    photographs, 4,000 were selected for publication; over half will appear in print for the first time.
                    It promises to be the most significant publication on Civil War imagery since Miller's ten
                    volumes appeared in 1911.
            Volume I contains short essays by recognized historians designed to introduce the more than 650
                    photographs that follow. Intended for a general audience, most of these essays offer nothing new to
                    the specialist. The only possible exceptions are Leslie D. Jensen's comments on southern
                    photographer J.D. Edwards and Frederic E. Ray's overview of Civil War imagists. The
                    captions are mercifully shorter than Miller's; despite some minor errors and misleading
                    statements, they are also more accurate.
            The scope of the work presents problems. Editor William C. Davis intended it to be "an
                    expression of the Civil War through the photographers' eyes. What interested them interests
                    us" (p. 11). That narrow view ill fits such a bold undertaking. The resulting approach is
                    entirely documentary; deeper analysis of these newly published historical sources would have added
                    immensely to the book's worth. Clarification of each volume's specific subject
                    matter would also be welcome. Even in Shadows of the Storm it is difficult to
                    determine what if any structure the editor intended.
            The book's advantages, however, outweigh its defects. The photographic reproductions are
                    superb, enabling specialists to view sources unmatched by the written word. Of special interest are
                    the views of 
                        Fort Sumter
                     and troops at 
                        Pensacola
                    . Considering the volume's qualities its price is not unreasonable.
            
               Purdue University, 
                            West Lafayette
                        
                Earl J. Hess
         
         
         
            
               John Steuart Curry and Grant Wood: A Portrait of Rural America. By Joseph S.
                    Czestochowski. (
                        Columbia
                    : University of 
                        Missouri
                     Press, with the Cedar Rapids Art Association, 1981. Pp. 224. Illustrations, notes,
                    bibliography, index of illustrations. $32.00.)
            Midwestern intellectuals and creative spirits during the 1920s and 1930s realized that modern
                    industry, for all the comforts it might bring, already had obscured much of the local color and
                    eroded the bedrock traditions that had guided generations. It was natural, too, for them to react to
                    the failure of Woodrow Wilson's ideal world order and to the humiliating experience of the
                    Great Depression by boring in on questions about themselves—in particular the question of
                    whether mid-western society possessed virtues which ought to be salvaged and strengthened. John
                    Steuart CUT and Grant Wood, two of the most successful artists in dealing with these issues, made
                    the point plainly in their work that the sensibilities of rural midwesterners and the values of the
                    past were important for surviving those turbulent times.
            This volume brings together some of the best works by Curry and Wood. Accoutrements of the 179
                    reproductions include short prose pieces by the artists—Curry's "What
                    Shall the Artist Paint? and Wood's "Revolt Against the
                    City"—as well as two essays by scholars, catalogue raisoneé of prints
                    in the book (which were exhibited to commemorate the seventy-fifth anniversary of the Cedar Rapids
                    Art Association), and an excerpt on Curry and Wood from the writings of Thomas Hart Benton. The book
                    thus contributes to an understanding of the social message of Curry and Wood and how they worked as
                    artists. Especially convincing is Sue Kendall's short analysis of Curry's 
                  
                            Kansas
                         Pastoral, murals painted in the capitol building in 
                        Topeka
                    . Kendall argues that Curry did not portray farm conditions as he saw them; rather, he
                    offered an optimistic projection of what rural life would be like when work-saving machines had
                    become commonplace. The point would have been stronger had the book's producers not been so
                    stingy with space for illustrating 
                  
                            Kansas
                         Pastoral.
            Regional artists tried to assure that their work could be understood by ordinary people.
                    Unfortunately, editor Czestochowski has failed to carry through that objective in his introduction.
                    The regionalists, who railed against "aesthetic obscurity … high falutin
                    symbolisms and devious and indistinct meanings," would have opened this handsomely produced
                         book with a statement that was, as they put it,
                    "arguable in the language of the street." Despite this lapse and numerous
                    reproductions of the same subject matter (for example, five illustrations by Curry showing animals
                    crowding on high ground during a flood), individuals interested in midwestern art and in midwestern
                    values as depicted by regional artists should view this book and read from it selectively.
            
               University of 
                     Missouri,
                                Kansas City
                  
                Richard D.
                McKinzie
         
         
            
               McCarthy and McCarthyism in 
                            Wisconsin
                        
               . By Michael O'Brien. (
                        Columbia
                    : University of 
                        Missouri
                     Press, 1980. Pp. ix, 269. Notes, essay on sources, index. $20.00.)
            Elitist intellectuals of the 1950s made Senator Joseph R. McCarthy into the perfect symbol of
                    democracy run amok, of the inherent illiberal instincts of Americans. There he and his
                    "ism" remained until scholars in the 1970s pointed to the shallowness of
                    McCarthy's grassroots support, the incredibly marginal nature of the man, and the unique
                    convergence of events that catapulted him to fame. By carefully placing McCarthy against the setting
                    of 
                        Wisconsin
                     politics from 1947 to 1957, Michael O'Brien makes a valuable contribution to
                    this revisionist school.
            O'Brien's discussion of McCarthy's dramatic decline and comeback in the
                    Senate immediately after his first election in 1946 is fresh and valuable. He presents excellent
                    accounts of how McCarthy put the 
                        Madison
                    
                    Capital Times on the defensive by red-baiting a year before he supposedly
                    discovered the issue of anti-communism, and he shows how the 
                        Milwaukee
                    
                    Journal carefully built its campaign against the senator. He explains why McCarthy
                    trailed the Republican ticket in 
                        Wisconsin
                     in 1952, noting that McCarthy's unusual support among Catholics, particularly
                    those of Czech and Polish ancestry, was offset in areas with strong labor unions that tended to
                    channel workers' fears—and votes—away from McCarthy. He also traces
                    how McCarthy's domestic political liabilities in 
                        Wisconsin
                     increased steadily in 1953 and 1954. In a more speculative overview of McCarthyism,
                    O'Brien describes ways in which postwar religious tensions influenced the struggles that
                    pivoted around the senator. He concludes that McCarthy's fighting temperament, more than
                    the causes for which he fought, undergirded his political support.
            
            O'Brien shuns conclusions on some of the central issues about McCarthy. He simply refers to
                    the "elusive" quality of the senator's "psychological
                    needs." He does not explain where McCarthy got his conservative ideology and, although
                    defining the problem well, he does not take a stand on the question of why McCarthy picked up the
                    communism issue. A comparative perspective on the popular appeal of other senators in the
                    1950s—notably Estes Kefauver—would have probably broadened his conclusions
                    about McCarthy.
            The problem of how a marginal person comes to define the political agenda for a period, however
                    brief, is one that still requires analysis. Any reader of Elizabeth Drew's recent and
                    perceptive analysis of Senator Jesse Helms's marginal nature and his seminal, strategic
                    contribution to contemporary political conservatism cannot help but be reminded of McCarthy. We need
                    to understand better how such people create agendas.
            Caveats aside, this is a valuable book.
            
               University of 
                     Missouri,
                                Columbia
                  
                David P. Thelen
         
         
            
               Structures of American Social History. By Walter Nugent. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1981. Pp. xiii, 206. Tables, figures, maps, notes, works
                    cited, index. $12.95.)
            In the past twenty years, historical demographers have reconstructed American population patterns
                    from the earliest colonial times. New information and concepts abound in this emerging field. Walter
                    Nugent, a generalist par excellence, here offers a sweeping interpretation of
                    American social and economic history based on these fresh findings. The author's purpose is
                    to explain to nonspecialists how demographic facts have shaped and molded American history; his
                    material, first presented as a public lecture series at Hebrew University, Jerusalem, has been
                    expanded and revised into a more general essay on the demographic basis of social structural change
                    in the 
                        United States
                     over three centuries.
            Nugent's major thesis is that American history can be divided into three distinct periods
                    based on population "plateaus," in which decadal growth rates remained stable for
                    long periods. Nugent identifies a frontier-rural era (1720–18701, when population growth
                    was 35 percent per decade, a metropolitan period (1920–2020) with growth below 14
                    percent, and a "conflict-ridden" interim period (1870–1920) when growth
                    was 24 percent. This fifty-year transition era, in which the metropolitan mode challenged and
                    eventually supplanted the  frontier–rural mode, the
                    author designates as the "Great Conjuncture," a term borrowed from the Annales scholar Fernand Braudel.
            Nugent likewise adopts as a theoretical model Braudellian concepts of periodization: events (less
                    than 12 years), conjunctures (12–50 years), and structures (more than 50 years). These
                    concepts, he believes, provide a better way to understand American history than modernization
                    theory, Marxism, the Turner thesis, or Malthusian laws, all of which he discusses at length. Whether
                    the Annales concepts are actually superior cannot be determined from
                    Nugent's book, since the various models that are described in the first chapter are not
                    converted into hypotheses and tested against the facts of American demography.
            Apart from the stimulating first chapter and the appeal to Braudel, this brief book presents a
                    narrative social and demographic history within the Turnerian, not the Braudellian, mode. The only
                    deviation is that Nugent sees the end of the frontier as a gradual, fifty–year process,
                    rather than as a dramatic change in the 1890s, as Turner did. Also in contrast to Turner, who viewed
                    the twentieth century pessimistically because of the passing of the "free land"
                    frontier, Nugent takes his cue from Malthus and offers a sanguine futuristic picture of the graying
                    of America. The twenty–first century should be "brightly bourgeois
                    again," predicts Nugent, because Americans have "put the brakes on population
                    growth" (p. 144). The author thus concludes his essay with a personal statement of faith in
                    economic self–interest and rationality. Only time will tell us if the stable population
                    trends and high income levels that Nugent envisions will indeed usher in the millennium.
            Despite Nugent's increasingly anachronistic beliefs in this age of the demise of liberalism,
                    his substantive discussion of demographic change and its social effects across the sweep of American
                    history is a welcome addition. A paperback edition would make prime supplemental reading in American
                    history courses.
            
               
                  
                            Kent
                         State University, 
                     Kent, Ohio
                  
                Robert P. Swierenga
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               Bloody Ground. By John F. Day. (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1981. Pp. xiv, 328. Illustrations. Cloth, $19.50. Paperbound,
                    $8.00.) When it was first published in 1941, John F. Day's Bloody
                        Ground attracted national attention. Day, then a young reporter for the 
                        Lexington
                    
                    Leader, provided with this book one of the earliest of what was to become a stream
                    of works on Appalachia. His description of life in the coal region of eastern 
                        Kentucky
                    —covering everything from revivals to moonshining, feuds to road
                    houses—retains all of its original vitality and interest for the 1980s reader. Gary L. Bailey, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               .
            
               Wilderness to 
                            Washington
                        : An 1811 Journey on Horseback. By Eleanor Rice Long. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Reflections Press, 1981. Pp. 167. Maps. $6.95.) This work of fiction is
                    based on an 1811 journey of Jonathan Jennings, Indiana Territory delegate to Congress, and his new
                    bride to the nation's capital. While the book's dialogue and many of the events
                    are created by the author, much of the story is set in the historical context of the pioneer period.
                    The long horseback trip east by Jonathan and Ann enables the author to introduce readers to the
                    conditions of travel and pioneer life—bears, Indians, taverns, gristmills, rivermen, and
                    the natural landscape. The last chapters include glimpses of life in the muddy village of 
                        Washington
                    . The book will be especially appropriate for younger readers. James H.
                        Madison, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               .
            
               Contemporaries: Portraits in the Progressive Era by David Graham Phillips. Edited
                    by Louis Filler. (
                  Westport, Conn.
               : Greenwood Press, 1981. Pp. xvi, 193. Notes, appendix,
                    index. $27.50.) Indiana-born novelist and journalist David Graham Phillips was one of the
                    most prolific writers of the early twentieth century. During his brief career he wrote over twenty
                    novels, as well as numerous magazine articles and short stories. In this edited volume Louis Filler
                    presents several of Phillips's articles on personalities and issues of the Progressive era;
                    the selections provide both an overview of the type of muckraking article Phillips was known for and
                    a number of interesting profiles of major figures of the period, ranging from J.P. Morgan to Hoosier
                    Albert J. Beveridge. Gary L. Bailey, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               .
         
         
         
            Richard M. Dorson, 1916–1981
            All students of Indiana's past are saddened by the death of Richard M. Dorson, distinguished
                    professor of history and folklore, Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    . A leading folklore scholar, Dorson made many contributions to understanding past and
                    present in many parts of the world, including Indiana. His book Land of the
                    Millrats, dealing with the Calumet Region, is reviewed in this issue.
         
      
      
      
      
   
