
     ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 101, Issue 4, pages 319-404. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:101+issue:4+year:2005&browseMode=source
    
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
        
        
            
            
                EDITOR'S NOTE
                Looking back should be the historical editor's stock in trade. To look back upon one's own work,
                    however-or the work of one's own journal-is to risk believing with Henry Ford that "history is more
                    or less bunk." How can we know the impact of our own words on anyone other than ourselves? Why
                    presume anyone else's interest in a topic that is to us a matter of identity?
                So it is that I approach the close of the IMH's 100th year with some
                    circumspection. This journal is more fittingly a chronicle of history than a historical subject in
                    its own right. Yet something in a round number invites reflection about the past. Ford himself was
                    no mean collector of historical artifacts, and though he readily dismissed "bunk" when its
                    implications didn't suit his needs, he rarely shied away from a chance to cast his own efforts in
                    historical light. Could not the IMH also be indulged a moment of reflection?
                Two "big ideas" suggest themselves for the occasion, and I am glad to report that both have already
                    been pursued. Readers seeking a collection of classic articles can turn to Lorna Lutes Sylvester's
                        "No Cheap Padding": Seventy-Five Years of the Indiana Magazine of History,
                    published by the Indiana Historical Society in 1980, which also includes a fine historical overview
                    of the journal to that date. Many of the best works appearing in our pages since then can be found
                    on the journal's website, http://www.indiana.edu/~imaghist/. Secondly, readers looking for an
                    overview of larger questions at play among Indiana historians over the last century are fortunate to
                    have The State of Indiana History 2000: Papers Presented at the
                        Indiana Historical Society's Grand Opening, edited by the late Robert M. Taylor, Jr., with
                    the aid of the editorial staff of the Indiana Historical Society. The eighteen contributors to that
                    volume summarize not only the key questions that make Indiana's history worth investigating, but
                    also the lines along which that investigation has proceeded in the last century or more of
                    historical  work. Their book still commends itself, five years
                    after publication, as the best starting place for the reader seeking to understand the practice of
                    Indiana history.
                Thanks to these earlier efforts, then, this issue can afford to entertain a more modest goal: to
                    reflect on the journal's ongoing evolution as it appears from our vantage point in 2005. We begin
                    with remarks on the life and work of the IMffs longest-serving editor, Donald E Carmony, who died
                    earlier this year. Carmony's associate Lorna Lutes Sylvester talks about the journal and the
                    practice of Indiana history as they evolved during her own distinguished term, which lasted from
                    1964 to 1999. James 
                        Madison
                    , himself a longtime IMH editor, contrasts the state's culture in 1905 and today through
                    a telling examination of Hoosier heroes, then and now. The issue also features historian David
                    Bodenhamer and state Supreme Court Chief Justice Randall Shepard's broad interpretive overview of
                    the state's legal history, which is drawn from their forthcoming edited volume on Indiana law, to be
                    published next year by 
                        Ohio
                     University Press.
                As this note concludes and as this 100th year ends, I want to turn from past to future. You will find
                    an envelope in this issue, inviting you to contribute to Indiana University's IMH Second-Century
                    Fund. To those of you who gave to the fund earlier this year, I thank you. Your contributions will
                    go toward enhancing those aspects of the IMH budget that come specifically from
                    IU: student training, website development, and educational efforts such as the "IMH for Teachers" lessons that will begin appearing online early next year. If you have not
                    yet had a chance to add your name to the list of those who are helping the IMH
                    expand to meet its challenges in these and other areas, I invite you to do so with a tax-deductible,
                    year-end contribution. Future Hoosier historians will be grateful for your support.
                Finally, the journal owes its own debt of gratitude to its steadiest patron, now and throughout the
                    last century of publication: the Indiana Historical Society. IHS provides the support that makes the
                        IMH a benefit of membership, and in so doing provides this journal with a
                    wonderful audience of active, skeptical, informed Hoosier readers. We look forward to keeping those
                    readers interested and involved for many years to come.
            
            
            
                In Memoriam Donald F. Carmony, 1910-2005
                In recent months, Indiana historians lost two legendary teachers and scholars. Thomas D. Clark, a
                    member of the Indiana University history faculty from 1968 to 1973 and author of the four-volume Indiana University: Midwestern Pioneer (1970-77) died on June 28, 2005, in 
                        Lexington, Kentucky
                    , at the age of 101. Over the course of seventy-five years, Clark wrote or edited three
                    dozen books on southern, western, frontier, and state history. He taught at the University of 
                        Kentucky
                     from 1931 to 1968, and was 
                        Kentucky
                    's Historian Laureate from 1990 until 2005. His influence guided the Organization of
                    American Historians to establish their headquarters in 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
                Donald E Carmony, a member of the Indiana University history faculty and editor of the Indiana
                    Magazine of History from 1955 to 1975, died on February 14, 2005, in 
                        Bloomington
                    , at the age of 95. The following testaments to Carmony's life and legacy are drawn from
                    the talks delivered at a memorial service in his honor, which was held in 
                        Bloomington
                     on April 30. James H. 
                        Madison
                     is the Thomas and Kathryn Miller professor of history at Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , and served as editor of the IMH from 1976 to 1993. John Worth is a 
                        Rushville
                     attorney and former student of Don Carmony. Stephen C. Moberly was a history major at
                    Indiana University and former student of Don Carmony. Eric Sandweiss is the editor of the IMH and the first holder of the Carmony Chair of History at IU.
                
                
                    Donald F. Carmony From a one-room schoolhouse to the halls of Indiana University, Carmony's
                        career path embodied the transformations of twentieth-century Indiana.
                    
                        IMH Collection
                
                "MR. INDIANA HISTORY"
                By James H. 
                        Madison
                    
                
                A line from Arthur 
                        Franklin
                     Mapes's "Indiana" is my starting point.
                
                    "I must learn more of my homeland For it's paradise to me"
                
                No one "learned more" of his Indiana homeland than Donald F Carmony. His knowledge of the state,
                    particularly of its pioneer history, was unsurpassed.
                Part of Carmony's learning was luck, the good fortune of studying under such inspiring scholars and
                    teachers as IU History Professors Logan  Esarey and R. C. Buley.
                    Don's gratitude and respect for them often showed up in the form of a story, a story enhanced by the
                    unique cadence and accent of his voice, the small grin on his face, the glow that such mentors
                    evoked for him.
                I liked hearing Don tell stories about Esarey and Buley because I eventually understood that he was
                    telling me that he stood in a line of historians. I came to hope that I would stand in that line
                    alongside others of my generation, and that it would move forward for historians in generations to
                    come.
                Part of Don's learning about his homeland came, too, from his growing up. His 
                        Shelby
                     County origins and his professors were essential elements in making him "Mr. Indiana
                    History."
                But not sufficient.
                For the key source, we must try to imagine his immense labor-across months, years, and decades-in the
                    primary sources of Indiana's history. Don Carmony probably read more Indiana antebellum newspapers,
                    more documents and reports from the General Assembly, more of those sources that are the life blood
                    of the scholar of early Indiana history, than any other human being. His hard work led to an
                    intimidating command of his subject.
                And yet Carmony's historical authority never turned to arrogance or mean-spiritedness. He remained a
                    scholar and a gentleman. When I assumed the position of editor of the Indiana Magazine
                        of History in 1976,1 knew far less than I should have known. Don might have pointed that
                    out. Yet the only advice he gave me about the IMH was that he thought it would be
                    a good idea to keep Lorna Lutes Sylvester as associate editor. Don not only allowed but encouraged
                    me to grow in the job, never suggesting that I needed to do it as he did it. He was gifted with the
                    unusual combination of deep knowledge and a willingness to allow others to make their own way.
                Let me return to the second line I quoted from the state poem: "For it's paradise to me."
                Don loved this state. One of the little treasures he gave me was a state highway map published in
                    1941. It reminds me of the thousands of miles of Indiana that he traveled-speaking, consulting,
                    doing research. He was a public historian long before such a label existed.
                Yet Don's love of Indiana did not mean he was happy with everything he saw here. He thought the
                    state's schools should be better. And he thought that there was more room in Indiana for American
                    ideals of justice and humanity. I was reminded of this commitment to social justice while pursuing
                    my own research several years ago, when I came across the program of the Indiana NAACP meeting in
                    French Lick in 1930. There I found the name Donald Carmony, speaking on the subject "If I Were a
                    Negro." I called him and asked if he was that Donald Carmony. Yes, he said, he was that Carmony; and
                    he was the only white person on the program. I don't need to emphasize how progressive and risky a
                    move this was in 1930 Indiana.
                
                In the spirit of Mapes's poem, Donald Carmony learned about his homeland and he loved it, as well.
                    His learning and his love encompassed pioneer Indiana and reached from his teachers to his students
                    and colleagues and to those historians still to come-historians who will know they follow in Donald
                    E Carmony's footsteps, in his line of descent.
                TEACHER By John Worth
                Donald Carmony sought to instill in his students an understanding that history, at its core, is told
                    through primary sources. Secondary sources, by contrast, contextualize primary-source material by
                    contributing an additional layer of interpretive insight. As a student of Professor Carmony, I
                    cannot resist allowing my former teacher's own words-the preface to his last book, The
                        Pioneer Era (1998)-to serve as the primary-source material for my remarks.
                Carmony notes in that essay that "I began teaching Indiana history while on the faculty of Indiana
                    Central College (today's University of 
                        Indianapolis
                    ), but the transfer to Indiana University gave me much more time for its study and
                    teaching." Without leaving behind his position at Indiana Central, Don began his graduate work with
                    a temporary residency in 
                        Bloomington
                     during the academic year of 1932-33. In 1938, when Indiana University historian Albert
                    L. Kohlmeier urged him to hasten the completion of his doctorate, Don and his family moved to 
                        Bloomington
                     again. At IU, he was influenced by a generation of noted historians of Indiana,
                    including Kohlmeier, John Barnhart, R.C. Buley, and Logan Esarey. From his experience studying with
                    them, as he later remarked, he came to consider "[t]he pioneer era [to be] my area of principal
                    interest." He received his Ph.D. in history in 1941.
                Although Don often credited colleagues, such as Esarey, Buley, Kohlmeier, and Barnhart, for placing
                    emphasis on Indiana history, his own role in the development of the discipline is perhaps most
                    significant. During his teaching career, which continued through his retirement in 1980, Don loved
                    to teach eager students about his home state. Recognizing the passion in their instructor, those
                    students in turn became enthralled with Indiana history, and with the pioneer era in particular. He
                    referred to persons of historic interest in Indiana by their last names only, like old friends:
                    William Henry Harrison became simply "Harrison," Wendell Willkie just "Willkie." Don personalized
                    history, and in the process touched the lives of thousands of college students, many of whom have
                    now become teachers themselves.
                
                As an instructor, Don was not only passionate but also factually precise; and he demanded the same
                    from his students. He required his students to do "proper research": to know the issues, to evaluate
                    the evidence carefully, and to formulate new ideas in a scholarly fashion. He taught them first to
                    locate the facts, and then to use those facts to formulate new ideas and opinions regarding their
                    historical material. I still have the paper I once submitted to him on the pioneer era Hoosier
                    Samuel Judah. Its twenty-three pages are pockmarked with Don's green ink and extensive notes. At the
                    end of the paper, Don questions, "What were your principal findings and
                    conclusions?" Don, never wanting to waste time, was to the point.
                A love of history, a passion for teaching, integrity, honor, goal-setting and achievement-these
                    traits were integral parts of Don Carmony. They made him the kind of teacher I feel privileged to
                    have encountered, the kind of teacher we all want for our kids today. From Don, I learned to learn
                    and to love learning for nothing more than its own sake. From him, I developed a desire to read and
                    an insatiable curiosity. When he shared his vast knowledge of our state's past with his students, we
                    all took giant steps in understanding history's relevance to the world today.
                I am humbled to have known this great man-as a teacher, a leader, a mentor, and a good friend. Donald
                    Carmony was always gracious, always the perfect gentleman. I truly miss him.
                EDUCATIONAL LEADER
                By Stephen C. Moberly
                I was a history major at Indiana University in the 1960s when I enrolled in Donald Carmony's Indiana
                    history classes. The classes met at 8:30 a.m., a tough time slot for a night-owl like me, but I was
                    always there. Don came from eastern 
                        Shelby
                     County, as did my mother, who grew up in nearby Rays Crossing. Because of our 
                        Shelby
                     County ties, I felt we had a special bond.
                Like me, most people who recall Don Carmony think of him in his role as a professor of history on the 
                        Bloomington
                     campus, where he taught for 25 of the 41 years he spent teaching for Indiana
                    University. Yet prior to his 
                        Bloomington
                     years, he played a major role in the university's growth, helping to develop what we
                    used to call the IU Extension Centers, and now know as the IU regional campuses. Beginning in 1939,
                    Carmony taught at the Extension Centers in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , and 
                        South Bend
                    -
                        Mishawaka
                    . University administrators, impressed with his work, named him director of the 
                        South Bend
                     center and then, in 1950, invited him to come to 
                        Bloomington
                     as associate dean for Academic Programs and Policies  in the Extension Centers. In that role, he advocated for increased academic standards and
                    enhanced programs across the state.
                Carmony's decision to resign the associate dean position after several years in 
                        Bloomington
                     caused dismay at Bryan Hall. IU President Herman B Wells summoned Carmony to his office
                    and asked him for any suggestions as to changes that might convince him to stay on. Carmony, in a
                    display of 
                        Shelby
                     County shrewdness, resolved not to "bid against himself," telling Wells, "I have none,
                    but perhaps you will have some." Wells considered the matter, then offered his dean a more
                    independent status (Don would henceforth report only to Dr. Herman T. Briscoe, the dean of
                    Faculties), as well as tenure in the history department and an increase in salary. Carmony accepted
                    the offer, continuing on as associate dean until 1959 and continuing his work of strengthening
                    academic standards and offerings at the extension centers.
                Even after he left the associate dean's post, Carmony served IU and the state in numerous
                    administrative positions. He chaired the IU Committee on Historic Preservation as well as the
                    state's sesquicentennial commission. He was instrumental in making improvements to the Indiana State
                    Museum. While he said, throughout his life, that he preferred "teaching, writing, research and
                    editing," Donald Carmony's service to the university and the state remain among the most significant
                    aspects of legacy.
                EDITOR
                By Eric Sandweiss
                Donald Carmony had been around the Hoosier block by the time he took up the editorship of the Indiana Magazine of History in 1955. This 
                        Shelbyville
                     native-who delighted in evoking for later generations (including my own children, born
                    more than eight decades after him) the life of a country boy, born in a cabin and educated in a
                    one-room schoolhouse-had also helped to modernize higher education in Indiana.
                The IMH of the 1950s was well-suited to Carmony's mix of down-to-earth know-how and
                    worldly professionalism. Its earlier editors, men such as Carmony's adviser Logan Esarey, or the
                    Frederick Jackson Turner protege John Barnhart, had already fashioned the IMH into
                    one of the best-known and respected of the many state history journals that appeared amid the rise
                    of state and local history institutions in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. Their
                    opinions were strong ones; their terms long ones. William Lynch had held the editor's post for
                    thirteen years; his successor, Barnhart, for fourteen.
                Carmony took the journal's helm with a typical mix of modesty and willfulness. In his first message
                    to his readers he turned to his predecessor, Barnhart, citing the elder scholar's inaugural editor's
                    note from 1941:  "Various questions have been asked about the
                    policies of the new editor," Carmony quoted Barnhart as saying. "The first policy will be that of
                    learning how to edit the magazine as it has been edited. Consequently there will not be any
                    important immediate changes nor any radical departures or thoughtless deviations from the past."
                I have found few more succinct evocations than this of what James 
                        Madison
                     subsequently labeled the "Indiana Way." Nor could I improve on Carmony's own words,
                    later in the editor's note, for an example of the stubborn pride that also helps define that
                    approach to the world: "Much," he wrote, "is currently being said and written about the need to
                    understand the world in which we live. The historian can do this more effectively by studying the
                    experiences of men through the centuries, and by reflecting upon what may be called the historical
                    process, than by losing his perspective in a rootless absorption with so-called contemporary
                    history."
                Carmony may have resisted "rootlessness" but he never feared change. His first issue included a
                    retrospective of the IMHs 50-year history-a backward look that, while deserved and appropriate,
                    proved only a temporary resting place. Twenty-one years, 84 issues, and three cover designs later,
                    Don left the IMH-its longest-serving editor, before or since. In his decades at
                    the journal, he had successfully combined an increasingly sophisticated mix of historical literature
                    with a canny sense of the colorful features, local stories, and documents that the journal's diverse
                    readership also valued. His last issue, in 1975, reflected in some measure his willingness to take
                    chances and pursue new directions, even those that led far from his 
                        Shelbyville
                     roots: the lead article that season focused on Alfred Kinsey's "31 Photographs" and
                    their role in the development of American obscenity laws. (I should mention that Carmony discreetly
                    selected for the Kinsey article's illustrations a photograph of the plain leather binding of a
                    19th-century edition of the banned works of the Marquis de Sade-rather than any examples of the more
                    contemporary visual documentation available to him in the nearby Kinsey archives.)
                In addition to being a bold and forward-thinking editor, Donald Carmony was also a shrewd developer
                    of talent. Dozens of students learned the editor's craft as assistants under his tutelage, and one
                    of them-Lorna Lutes Sylvester-rose to the ranks of Associate Editor (and, at key times, Acting
                    Editor), helping to steer the IMH for thirty-four years before her retirement in
                    1999.
                Such modesty was typical of Carmony. It makes particularly poignant to me a remembrance, written by
                    him in 1968, of his elder colleague John Barnhart: "Although committed to his own high principles of
                    scholarship and character," Carmony wrote, "he exercised understanding, kindness, generosity, and
                    restraint in his evaluation of colleagues and students." Few among us deserve to write our own
                    obituary. But Donald Carmony, with those words directed toward another, did so beautifully.
            
            
            
                Heroes, Changing Times, and the Indiana Magazine of History, 1905-2005
                JAMES H. MADISON
                It was so long ago that there really were buggy whips for sale when the first issue of the Indiana Magazine of History appeared in 1905. We live in a different world, of
                    course, and there are many ways to see those differences. One way is to think about the heroes of
                    that generation of 1905, to think about whom the people of this state placed on pedestals, and then
                    to move forward in time to consider how our generation today chooses its heroes.
                Indiana's heroes in 1905 were mostly political and military leaders and mostly white men. Hoosiers at
                    the beginning of the twentieth century studied and revered William Henry Harrison, George Rogers
                    Clark, William Conner, and many others less well known today. School children learned that these men
                    created a civilization in an untamed wilderness by defeating the Indians and the British and then by
                    laying the foundation for prosperity and democracy. Their achievements remain laudable today, and it
                    is appropriate that Indiana's fourth graders and adults learn about these great men. 
                        James H. 
                                Madison
                             is Thomas and Kathryn Miller Professor of History and director of the Liberal
                            Arts and Management Program, Indiana University 
                                Bloomington
                            . From 1976 to 1993 he served as editor of the Indiana Magazine of
                                History.
                        
                        Author's note: The scholarship cited below is intended as only representative of a much
                            larger body of writing. For further reading, see the pages of the Indiana
                                Magazine of History (hereafter IMH) and Robert M. Taylor, Jr.,
                            ed., The State of Indiana History 2000: Papers Presented at
                                the Indiana Historical Society's Grand Opening (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 2001).
                    
                    
                    
                        General George Rogers Clark Statue, Monument Circle, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1907 Celebrated in stone nearly a century ago, George Rogers Clark is
                            remembered today not only as a hero but also as a symbol of the violence that accompanied
                            much early White-Indian contact in Indiana.
                        Courtesy Indiana Historical Society, Bass Photo Company Collection, C115
                     It is good that we continue to visit Harrison's home at Grouseland, the Clark Memorial in 
                        Vincennes
                    , and the Conner House in 
                        Hamilton County
                    .
                But our generation has the eyes to consider these heroes in a different light from that of Hoosiers
                    one hundred years ago. We can no longer ignore the fact that some of the workers at Grouseland were
                    Harrison's property, slaves, even if the preferred term for a long time was "servants." We know now
                    that along the banks of the 
                        Wabash
                     River, Clark ordered his men to murder in cold blood bound Indian captives. We know
                    that when it became more economically and culturally profitable to abandon his 
                        Delaware
                     Indian  wife and children, Conner moved with the
                    speed of a modern entrepreneur, which is what he was.1
                
                In the early 1990s, as part of the so-called "culture wars," some Americans labeled such troubling
                    sides to the lives of their heroes as "politically correct" history or "revisionism." Some accused
                    historians of "tearing down" American heroes. Such arguments have little validity, regardless of
                    political or ideological views. People past and present have always been real human beings and have
                    never been perfect. People have never lived in simple black-and-white worlds of good and bad, right
                    and wrong. In trying to fool ourselves into thinking otherwise, we have not always served our best
                    interests as responsible citizens in a democracy. If we see our past now as more ambiguous, more
                    troubling, it is also more real, more interesting, and more important. How we see Harrison, Clark,
                    and Conner is part of how we see ourselves.
                While great men such as Harrison, Clark, and Conner stood on the pedestal of history in 1905, these
                    leaders did not stand alone. Joining them was a certain sort of ordinary people-the pioneers. The
                    pioneers who settled Indiana at the end of the eighteenth century and in the first decades of the
                    nineteenth had become, by 1905, objects of ancestor worship. As with the great men, there remains
                    good reason to study the achievements of the pioneer generation. They did build a state by hard work
                    and family values; by swinging axes, churning butter, and planting corn; and by worshiping their
                    God. They professed ideals that remain today among the best the world has seen, embodied in the
                    Indiana Constitution of 1816, with its claims that "all men are born free and equally independent"
                    and that "all power is inherent in the people."2 No finer words have yet been
                    written on Hoosier soil.
                The downside of having put Hoosier pioneers up on a pedestal in 1905 was that, as with the great men,
                    we denied them their humanity. It should not be so difficult to accept today the possibility that
                    while some pioneers were honest and hard working, some were not. Some were faithful to 
                        
                            1 Andrew R. L. Cayton, Frontier Indiana (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1996); Reginald Horsman, "William Henry Harrison: 
                                Virginia
                             Gentleman in the Old Northwest," IMH, 96 (June 2000), 125-49;
                            Bernard W. Sheehan, "The Famous Hair Buyer General’: 
                                Henry Hamilton
                            , George Rogers Clark, and the American Indian," IMH, 79
                            (March 1983), 22-23; James Fisher, "A Forgotten Hero Remembered, Revered, and Revised: The
                            Legacy and Ordeal of George Rogers Clark," IMH, 92 (June 1996), 109-32;
                            John Lauritz Larson and David G. Vanderstel, "Agent of Empire: William Conner on the Indiana
                            Frontier, 1800-1855," IMH, 80 (December 1984), 301-28.
                        
                            2 Charles Kettleborough, ed., Constitution Making in
                                Indiana, Vol. 1: 1780-1851 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916), 84.
                    
                    
                    
                        Thomas Hart 
                                Benton
                            , Indiana Murals, cultural panel 3, "Frontier Life" 
                                Benton
                            's murals elevated ordinary Hoosiers to a prominent place in the state's
                            history.
                        Photograph by Michael Cavanaugh and Kevin Montague. Copyright 2005 Indiana University Art
                            Museum
                     their spouses; some were not. Some contributed to the building of community values; some
                    did not.3
                
                And then there are fundamental ideals of democracy. Writing at the end of the nineteenth century, the
                    historian Frederick Jackson Turner firmly argued for reciprocal relationships among pioneers, the
                    frontier, and 
                        
                            3 There was occasional recognition of pioneer shortcomings. See, for
                            example, Edward Eggleston, The Hoosier School-Master: A Novel (1871; 
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1984).
                    
                     democracy.4 It was a version of the past
                    that the generation of his day very much liked: pioneers brought democracy to America. But it was
                    only partly true. As much as they professed freedom and justice for all, many pioneers had little
                    regard for people who were different, a characteristic of this first generation little noticed in
                    1905. Those very unusual people, for example, who followed George Rapp and then Robert Owen to their
                    Utopian settlements at 
                        New Harmony
                     sparked strong distrust and antipathy from neighbors. Jews, Catholics, and many
                    immigrants usually remained outsiders in pioneer Indiana. Native Americans had either to become like
                    white pioneers or exit the state, quickly. African Americans, most thought, should not be allowed to
                    enter the Hoosier promised land at all. Indeed, in 1905 the clear fact that some pioneers were black
                    was hardly noticed. Nor did the generation of the early twentieth century much comment on the myriad
                    ways in which whites had restricted freedoms of black Hoosiers with increasingly harsh laws and
                    customs that everywhere drew lines of color. The culmination of their restricted notion of democracy
                    came in Article XIII of the state's 1851 Constitution, which prohibited African Americans from
                    entering the state.5
                
                There were always exceptions. Some pioneers saw the humanity in those who were different. Some
                    applied laws of justice to Indians, for example, as in the 1824 trial of the accused murders of
                    Indian women and children following the Deer Lick Creek massacre. In handing down death sentences
                    for four white men Judge William W. Wick said:
                
                    By what authority do we hauntingly boast of our being white? What principle of philosophy or of
                        religion established the doctrine that a white skin is preferable in nature or in the sight of
                        God to a red or black one? Who has ordained that men of the 
                            
                                4 Compare the neo-Turnerian John D. Barnhart, Valley of
                                    Democracy: The Frontier versus the Plantation in the 
                                        Ohio
                                     Valley, 1775-1818 (
                                    Bloomington
                                , Ind., 1953), with Nicole Etcheson, The Emerging Midwest:
                                    Upland Southerners and the Political Culture of the Old Northwest, 1787-1861 (
                                    Bloomington
                                , Ind., 1996).
                            
                                5 Robert M. Taylor, Jr., and Connie A. McBirney, eds., Peopling Indiana: The Ethnic Experience (
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 1996); Emma Lou Thornbrough, The Negro in Indiana: A Study of
                                    a Minority (
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 1957); Andrew R. L. Cayton, "Race, Democracy, and the Multiple Meanings ol
                                the Indiana Frontier," in The Indiana Territory, 1800-2000, ed. Darrel
                                E. Bigham (
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 2001), 47-70; Richard E Nation, "Violence and the Rights of African
                                Americans in Civil War-Era Indiana: The Case of James Hays," IMH, 100 (September 2004),
                                216-30; James H. 
                                    Madison
                                , "Race, Law, and the Burdens of Indiana's History," in David J. Bodenhamer
                                and Randall T. Shepard, eds., The History of Indiana Law (forthcoming,
                                2006).
                        
                         white skin shall be at liberty to shoot and hunt down men
                        of the red skin, or exercise rule and dominion over those of the black?"6
                    
                
                Some Hoosiers urged freedom in its fullest sense. A few whites argued for racial equality; a few more
                    were willing to question slavery. Some Hoosiers even disobeyed the law of the land in counteracting
                    enforcement of the notorious Fugitive Slave Act. 
                        Indianapolis
                     lawyer Calvin Fletcher offers one example. Most nobly, there was the Hoosier boy who
                    grew up on the Indiana frontier to lead the nation in its war against slavery. Abraham Lincoln was
                    the exception above all exceptions, the Indiana youth who read, observed, and thought, and who
                    arrived at his own deep understanding of the human condition. No other person from Indiana's pioneer
                    days is his equal. Here, on Lincoln's greatness, many of the generation of 1905 and of today might
                    agree, though for rather different reasons.7
                
                By 1905 another everyday hero had joined the pioneer. The Civil War veteran rose in status and
                    veneration as he aged, assisted by the publicity work of the Grand Army of the Republic, the most
                    successful veterans’ organization in American history. A half-century after 
                        Appomattox
                    , parades, monuments, commemorations, and written histories presented the Civil War
                    veteran as hero. Although generals such as Lew Wallace and Benjamin Harrison held more of the
                    spotlight, there remained plenty of room for the ordinary soldier. Across the state he rode at the
                    front of the parade as it moved past the statues and monuments on the courthouse lawn.8
                
                Civil War veterans and pioneers together became the best evidence that ordinary people should have a
                    place in history. Their inclusion by 1905 
                        
                            6 Brian M. Doerr, "The Massacre at Deer Lick Creek, 
                                Madison County
                            , Indiana, 1824," IMH, 93 (March 1997), 37; David Edmunds,
                            "Justice on a Changing Frontier: Deer Lick Creek, 1824-1825," IMH, 93
                            (March 1997), 48-52.
                        
                            7 David Brion Davis, "The Significance of Excluding Slavery from the Old
                            Northwest in 1787," IMH 84 (March 1988), 75-89; Emma Lou Thornbrough, "Indiana and Fugitive
                            Slave Legislation," IMH, 50 (September 1954), 201-28; Thomas D. Hamm,
                            April Beckman, Marissa Florio, Kristi Giles, and Marie Hopper, "‘A Great and Good People’:
                            Midwestern Quakers and the Struggle Against Slavery," IMH, 100 (March
                            2004), 3-25; Randall T. Shepard, "For Human Rights: Slave Cases and the Indiana Supreme
                            Court," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, 15 (Summer 2003), 34-41.
                            A notable exception to the tendency to ignore slavery and race was Jacob Dunn. See Dunn, Indiana: A Redemption from Slavery (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1888), and Ray E. Boomhower, Jacob Piatt Dunn, Jr.: A Life
                                in History and Politics, 1855-1924 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1997). Notable in the vast literature on Lincoln is William Lee Miller, Lincoln's Virtues: An Ethical Biography (
                                New York
                            , 2002).
                        
                            8 James H. 
                                Madison
                            , "Civil War Memories and ‘Pardnership Forgittin,’ 1865-1913," IMH, 99 (September 2003), 198-230; Glory-June Greiff, Remembrance, Faith,
                                and Fancy: Outdoor Public Sculpture in Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 2005).
                    
                     meant that the past was not just about notable leaders, that
                    the pages of history might hold room for other ordinary people as well. A wider door to our past
                    opened gradually at first and then more quickly in the latter half of the twentieth century. Today's
                    Indiana heroes are such a varied lot that few generalizations are possible. Heroes now come in both
                    sexes and all colors and from all walks of life.
                Plenty of room remains on the pedestal today for presidential candidates, governors, senators, and
                    other political leaders. And there is room as well for some political leaders judged as unsuccessful
                    in their own day. Eugene V Debs was never a Hoosier favorite; his outspoken socialism and opposition
                    to American entry into World War I made him a Hoosier to be ignored, at best. Yet many today,
                    whether agreeing or not with his views, would put him among the state's greatest citizens. Wendell
                    Willkie never won an election. Yet his prescient global vision, embodied in his 1943 book, One
                    World, and his willingness to work hard for racial equality raise him higher in public esteem today
                    than in his own day. And there is still room for military heroes, especially ordinary soldiers of
                    World War II. Those who lost their lives in that war-including John Bushemi, the Marine photographer
                    killed on a Pacific Island, and Ernie Pyle, the reporter who best told their stories-became special
                    heroes to most of us.9
                
                Leaders from a variety of fields other than political and military life have become part of our past
                    and, for some, our heroes. Such a list might include Herman B Wells, who created a modern and global
                    state university in 
                        Bloomington
                    ; Eli Lilly, who led a small pharmaceutical company into the forefront of scientific
                    research and profitability; Paul Moore, of Christ Church in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , who advanced social reform within a system of Christian belief; Alfred Kinsey, whose
                    pioneering research on human sexuality reminds us to consider that even Indiana pioneers engaged in
                    sexual intercourse and that some might even have loved pioneers of the same sex.10
                
                There is far more room today for women, often ignored in 1905, even in histories of ordinary
                        pioneers."11 Examples include Ada E. Schweitzer, 
                        
                            9 Nick Salvatore, Eugene V. Debs: Citizen and
                            Socialist (
                                Urbana
                            , 111., 1982); James H. 
                                Madison
                            , ed., Wendell Willkie: Hoosier Internationalist (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1992); Ray E. Boomhower, "One Shot": The World War II
                                Photography of John A. Bushemi (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 2004); James Tobin, Ernie Pyle's War: America's Eyewitness to
                                World War II (
                                New York
                            , 1997).
                        
                            10 Herman B Wells, Being Lucky: Reminiscences and
                                Reflections (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1980); James H. 
                                Madison
                            , Eli Lilly: A Life, 1885-1977 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1989); Jason Lantzer, "Crisis on the Circle: Christ Church Cathedral Confronts
                            the 1960s," Anglican and Episcopal History, 68 (December 1999), 468-492;
                            James H. Jones, Alfred C. Kinsey: A Life (
                                New York
                            , 1997).
                        
                            11 See, for example, Howard Johnson, A Home in the Woods:
                                Oliver Johnson's Reminiscences of Early 
                                    Marion
                                 County (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1951). This otherwise fascinating memoir is notable for the near absence of
                            females.
                    
                     who pioneered in infant care and public health in the 1920s;
                    Albion Fellows Bacon, an energetic housing reformer from 
                        Evansville
                    ; May Wright Sewall, advocate for women's rights; and Elizabeth Richardson, from 
                        Mishawaka
                    , who lost her life while working for the American Red Cross in 
                        France
                     during World War II. And there were thousands of ordinary women on the war home fronts
                    who did more than just carry on in times of stress. Across our past many ordinary women worked as
                    homemakers and community leaders to make the quiet contributions essential to well-lived lives.12
                
                There is a place, too, for heroes who are not white: black lawyers in the 1930s and 1940s who fought
                    on the front line before the modern civil rights movement; Flossie Bailey of 
                        Marion
                    , who stood up to racism with a courage seldom matched; and the many ordinary African
                    American citizens, in 
                        Evansville
                    , Gary, 
                        Madison
                    , and 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and in rural communities such as the Roberts Settlement in 
                        Hamilton County
                    , who challenged the color line.13
                
                Along with possibilities of new heroes there were new villains and more room for the troubling
                    ambiguities they raise. Few chapters of the state's history compare in notoriety to the tempest of
                    D. C. Stephenson and the Ku Klux Klan of the 1920s. In the last two decades historians have opened
                    up this dark subject, one barely written about as late as the 1970s. Recent scholarship connects the
                    Klan's particular form of narrow-mindedness and hatred to larger themes and issues. We can now know
                    a Klan of the 
                        
                            12 Alexandra Minna Stern, "Making Better Babies: Public Health and Race
                            Betterment in Indiana, 1920-1935," American Journal oj Public Health, 92
                            (May 2002), 742-53; Robert G. Barrows, Albion Fellows Bacon: Indiana's
                                Municipal Housekeeper (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 2000); Ray E. Boomhower, "But I Do Clamor": May Wright
                                Sewall, A Life, 1844-1920 (Zionsville, Ind., 2001); Thomas E. Rodgers, "Hoosier
                            Women and the Civil War Home Front," IMH, 97 June 2001), 105-28; Barbara
                            J. Steinson, "Rural Life in Indiana," IMH, 90 (September 1994), 203-50.
                            For the great needs in women's history research, see Nancy Gabin, "Fallow Yet Fertile: The
                            Field of Indiana Women's History," IMH, 96 (September 2000), 213-49.
                        
                            13 Stanley 
                                Warren
                            , "Robert L. Bailey: Great Man with a Thirst for Justice," Black
                                History News & Notes, 55 (February 1994), 6-7; James H. 
                                Madison
                            , A Lynching in the Heartland: Race and Memory in America (
                                New York
                            , 2001); Darrel E. Bigham, We Ask Only a Fair Trial: A History of
                                the Black Community oj 
                                    Evansville
                                , Indiana (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1987); Don Wallis, ed., All We Had Was Each Other: The
                                Black Community oj 
                                    Madison
                                , Indiana (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1998); Ronald D. Cohen, "The Dilemma of School Integration in the North:
                            Gary, Indiana, 1945-1960," IMH, 82 Qune 1986), 161-84; Richard B. Pierce,
                                Polite Protest: The Political Economy oj Race in 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 1920-1970 (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 2005); Emma Lou Thornbrough, "Breaking Racial Barriers to Public
                            Accommodations in Indiana, 1935-1963," IMH, 83 (December 1987), 301-29;
                            Stephen A. Vincent, Southern Seed, Northern Soil: African-American Farm
                                Communities in the Midwest, 1765-1900 (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1999); Emma Lou Thornbrough and Lana Ruegamer, Indiana
                                Blacks in the Twentieth Century (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 2000). And of course there was Madam Walker, the successful
                            businesswoman: A'Lelia Bundles, On Her Own Ground: The Life and Times ojMadam
                                C.J. Walker (
                                New York
                            , 2001).
                    
                    
                    
                        Oscar Robertson, March 12, 1955 Robertson's historical legacy extends beyond his performance
                            on the basketball court.
                        Courtesy Indiana Historical Society, 
                                
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Recorder Collection
                     past that causes uneasiness about the ambiguities of our own times as well as the
                        1920s.14
                
                Artists and novelists have joined lists of those seen as worthy contributors. Not only the men of T.
                    C. Steele's generation, but Ada Walter Shulz, Mari Goth, the Overbeck sisters, Marie Webster, and
                    other women have become part of our artistic past. Writers moved into the light, too, even 
                        
                            14 Leonard J. Moore, Citizen Klansmen: The Ku Klux Klan in
                                Indiana, 1921-1928 (
                                Chapel Hill
                            , N.C., 1991); Allen Safianow, ‘"You Can't Burn History’: Getting Right with the
                            Klan in 
                                Noblesville
                            , Indiana," IMH, 100 (June 2004), 110-54.
                    
                     those such as Ross Lockridge, Jr., and Kurt Vonnegut, who
                    challenged traditional notions.15
                
                A mixed consequence of this wider door to public visibility and standing is the rush of celebrities
                    into our lives, especially those in sports and entertainment. Even in Indiana, which has proudly
                    claimed a quiet modesty as a defining quality, we put celebrity names in headlines and name highways
                    and buildings for them. Some will likely endure beyond their lifetimes. Hoagy Carmichael is surely
                    one. James Dean is now a global figure of significance a half-century after his death. People who
                    never saw them play basketball talk about Oscar Robertson, Larry Bird, and, of course, the Milan
                    basketball team of 1954. But many other celebrities who are today considered so important and so
                    worthy of attention may fade.16
                
                By using our brains rather than the remote control, by reading good history, we can make distinctions
                    between celebrities and heroes. We can see more clearly the larger contexts that shape lives and
                    cultures, past and present. We can see differences between real heroes and flashes in the pan. We
                    can understand the great lessons of history, that nothing is constant and permanent, that change has
                    always been the order of the day, and that even heroes are human.
                Central to the process of thoughtfully selecting and knowing our heroes is the work of historians.
                    Historians in universities, schools, museums, and historical societies have been going about digging
                    in primary sources and doing the hard thinking that enables them to create new knowledge and share
                    that knowledge with others. So have independent writers, filmmakers, genealogists, and researchers
                    who often work with little financial reward to bring light to a subject that interests them. This
                    ongoing historical research creates the foundation of what we know about the past and about the
                    kinds of heroes we select.
                Much of this research has appeared in the pages of the Indiana Magazine of History.
                    As times changed, as history changed, so did the IMH. Four times a year for a
                    hundred years its pages broadened and deepened our understanding of the past. Even in the early
                    years, its authors reminded 
                        
                            15 Judith Vale Newton and Carol Ann Weiss, Skirting the
                                Issue: Stories of Indiana's Historical Women Artists (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 2004); Jeanette Vanausdall, Pride and Protest: The Novel in
                                Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1999); Larry Lockridge, The Shade oj the Raintree: The Life and
                                Death of Ross Lochridge Jr. (
                                New York
                            , 1994).
                        
                            16 Richard M. Sudhalter, Stardust Melody: The Life and
                                Music of Hoagy Carmichael (
                                New York
                            , 2002); Wes Gehring, James Dean: Rebel with a Cause (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 2005); Randy Roberts "But They Can't Beat Us": Oscar Robertson
                                and the Crispus Attucks Tigers (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1999); Aram Goudsouzian, ‘"Ba-ad, Ba-a-ad Tigers’: Crispus Attucks Basketball
                            and Black 
                                Indianapolis
                             in the 1950s," IMH, 96 (March 2000), 5-43.
                    
                     us that pioneers were ordinary people worthy of our attention
                    and human beings subject to frailties and achievements not entirely unlike our own. In recent
                    decades, readers of these pages came to see ranges of human beings, behaviors, and ideas still wider
                    than those glimpsed in 1905. We have the capacity to select heroes of our own choosing, men and
                    women who fit our particular sense of what we want to be and what we want Indiana to be in the
                    twenty-first century. In its second century the Indiana Magazine of History will
                    introduce us to new possibilities for choosing heroes and for deepening our appreciation of who we
                    were and who we are as Indiana citizens.
            
            
            
                Thirty Years at the Indiana Magazine of History: A Conversation with Lorna Lutes
                    Sylvester
                Lorna Lutes Sylvester served the Indiana Magazine of History for thirtyfour years,
                    first as its assistant editor (1964-1967), later as the associate editor (1967-1999), and during
                    several periods as the journal's acting editor.1 We spoke with Sylvester in the
                    magazine's offices in 
                        Bloomington
                     on August 29, 2005, about her career, the IMH, and the changing state of Indiana
                    history. The transcription of that interview, which follows, has been edited for continuity.
                EARLY INTEREST IN HISTORY
                
                    
                        Indiana Magazine of History:
                     What brought you to Indiana University and the Indiana Magazine of History?
                
                
                    Lorna Sylvester: I enrolled at Indiana University as a freshman in 1952, and other
                    than a few brief side trips I was with IU until I retired in 1998. I came because I was a 
                        Monroe
                     County/
                        Bloomington
                     resident, and as such, I could live at home and attend IU. My parents couldn't afford
                    to send me to college any place else. It was just my good fortune that IU had an excellent history
                    department and I received an excellent education; as a result I have my three degrees from here.
                
                    
                        1 For a list of the specific dates of her acting editorship, as well as of
                        the terms of service of all IMH staff members, see pages 401-402 in this
                        issue.
                
                
                
                    Lorna Lutes Sylvester, 1989
                    Photograph by Ellen B. Berkowitz, IMH Collection
                
                
                    
                        IMH:
                     What did history mean to you as a young woman just starting her higher education?
                
                    LS: It's difficult to say. I knew from the time I was seven years old that I
                    wanted to do something with history. Since I came from a long line of teachers, my initial thought
                    was, "I'm going to teach history in high school." I'm not really sure what drew me to it so much.
                    It's just something that has always intrigued me. The books I read as a child and later were
                    primarily history. Perhaps it's because I come from what has been called an "arrested frontier" in 
                        Brown
                     County in southern Indiana, where people frequently discussed their ancestors and where
                    almost every conversation included, "He lives there, his grandmother was so and so, her parents came
                    from thus and so." I grew up hearing that. To me that was history, and from there on I wanted to
                    learn more about it.
                
                    IMH: Meaning, as well, that you had a particular interest in Indiana?
                
                    LS: I was interested in it always, but for many years my first love was the  Civil War period. When I came to IU, that's the area that I
                    wanted to specialize in. When I was ready to start graduate school, I initially enrolled at the
                    University of 
                        North Carolina
                     to study southern history. One of my professors, R. C. Buley, called me in and said,
                    "Lorna, that's a big mistake." He said, "You are not a southerner. You will never think like a
                    southerner. This is the wrong thing for you to do. You're a Hoosier; you're from Indiana. You know
                    these people, you think like these people, you ought to stay here and go into state, local, regional
                    history." At the time I thought his reasoning wasn't particularly logical, and I didn't follow his
                    advice. Because of health reasons, however, I had to come back to IU. I took four-and-a-half years
                    out to teach public school in order to pay for further study. Very shortly after I returned to 
                        Bloomington
                    , I took Donald Carmony's Indiana history course. A couple of years later he offered me
                    a position as the assistant editor of the Indiana Magazine of History, and, as I say, the rest is
                    history.
                THE INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY
                
                    
                        IMH:
                     Describe your first encounters with Donald Carmony.
                
                    LS: He had interviewed me for the position of assistant editor of the Indiana Magazine of History just after my senior year, but I was determined on graduate
                    school at that time so I turned him down. When I came back to Indiana, I began to teach in secondary
                    schools, but I took summer courses at Indiana University. His course was one of the first that I
                    took. That was my first real acquaintance with or knowledge of him. Then later on, when the position
                    of assistant editor again opened up at the Indiana Magazine of History, he called
                    me in and asked me if I would like to have the position.
                
                    
                        IMH:
                     How would you describe Carmony's contribution to the field? Was he inheriting and building on
                    what Buley, Logan Esarey, and John Barnhart had created before him?
                
                    LS: Yes, I think he was. Esarey, of course, was the first IU editor of the Indiana Magazine of History (1913-1926). He was one of Professor Carmony's
                    mentors. Carmony admired him a great deal, often told stories about him, and I think wanted to
                    continue what Esarey had started. Barnhart, who was the editor (1941-1955) just prior to Professor
                    Carmony, was also a renowned Indiana and midwestern historian and continued to build the reputation
                    of the magazine. So yes: Carmony was building on what was here, but I think he took it much farther.
                    He, like Esarey, was closer to pioneer Indiana, to the people. He really was able to bridge the gap
                    between professional historian and ordinary people who were interested in history.
                
                    
                        IMH:
                     Was that because of the kind of boyhood he had or because of the kind  of professor he was?
                
                    LS: I think it was because of his boyhood. He was from 
                        Shelby
                     County, and his background was the rural background that a great many people in Indiana
                    at that time had lived. He was one of them, and they saw him in that way.
                
                    
                        IMH:
                     Was Don Carmony then practicing social history? That is, was he looking away from the big
                    political events and the major movers and shakers, toward everyday life?
                
                    LS: That is a difficult question. I don't know that he would ever have described
                    himself that way. This was just what he was; it was who he was. His interest was basically in
                    political history-old-fashioned history, if you will-but in pursuing that interest he worked with
                    and knew and got along with people who were not academics: the lay historians, ordinary people. In
                    fact, if you had called him a social historian, I think he would possibly have denied it. He was,
                    but I'm not sure he recognized it in himself. He was open to social history, other genres, and we
                    published many articles in the magazine during his editorship that were not political history.
                    Still, that was his major interest, and that's what he researched; it's what he wrote about and what
                    he was interested in. But I learned very, very early that his name was a sort of "Open Sesame" in
                    Indiana, regardless of what part of the state you were in. You would go to a library or a town or a
                    museum, and you would be stonewalled about research or getting access to documents or touring
                    historic homes; but if you said, "I work with Donald E Carmony," it was a complete reversal of
                    attitude. You got almost anything you wanted. He had that kind of rapport with people in the state.
                
                    
                        IMH:
                     Let's talk about his impact on the journal. When you put together the edited volume, "No Cheap Padding" (1980), in commemoration of the 75th anniversary of the
                    magazine, you had a chance to look over the whole run and to think about the impact of different
                    editors and the stamp that they left on it. What kind of magazine did Don Carmony inherit, and where
                    did he take it in the many years that he edited the IMH?
                
                
                    LS: The editor immediately preceding Carmony was John Barnhart. I hesitate to use
                    words like "old school," but he was also someone primarily interested in political history. The
                    magazine under Barnhart became much more scholarly. He was able to get articles from professional
                    historians, as well as lay historians, that were very significant in the field. The IMH became in his hands far more a scholarly professional journal than it had been before.
                    There were scholarly articles prior to that. There were footnotes prior to that. But I think
                    Barnhart moved the IMH into a more professional realm than perhaps some of his
                    predecessors. When he passed it to Carmony, there probably was less change between the two editors
                    than there had been before. Carmony merely took what was there and began to build on it. I  won't say that he didn't do anything new, he did; but he was
                    continuing, I think, for the most part, what Barnhart had started. Carmony perhaps broadened his
                    focus a little more. He used a few more articles from lay historians. He considered articles with a
                    wider variety of subjects than Barnhart did, but primarily it was a very smooth transition between
                    the two.
                
                    
                        IMH:
                     You came to work here in 1964. What could or would happen in a typical day of work? What kind
                    of operation was it?
                
                    LS: I remember that my first reaction, other than being thrilled to death to get
                    the position as assistant editor, was to wonder how in the world a journal as well-known and as
                    prestigious as the Indiana Magazine of History could be edited and produced out of
                    the facilities that we had at the time. We were in one room on the third floor of what was then the
                    library, now 
                        Franklin
                     Hall. To be perfectly honest, the room was not particularly clean. I don't think the
                    janitorial staff ever made it that high up in the library. We had a couple of desks and an
                    antique-and I use that word advisedly-manual typewriter. Everything was done out of that room: we
                    edited there; we carried on the business there; after the magazines were bound, they were stuffed
                    into huge mailbags there. Initially, Professor Carmony had three different positions on campus with
                    three different offices. Sometimes it was great fun trying to track him down to get an answer to a
                    question because you never knew exactly where he would be at any one time.
                
                    
                        IMH:
                     How did your own role in the journal evolve over time?
                
                    LS: I often heard Professor Carmony joke that he preferred two part-time assistant
                    editors to one full-time because he thought he got more work out of them. He said it jokingly, but
                    he may well have been correct. I started as an assistant editor, just as any other graduate student
                    or faculty wife who worked as assistant editor. Professor Carmony very rarely had what most
                    historians today would call a true sabbatical. He would be relieved of his teaching duties, but the
                    magazine deadlines were always there. As I continued with the IMH-and I didn't
                    intend to stay forever when I first came-I began to take over for him when he needed to get away for
                    a summer or needed to take a true sabbatical and be away from campus. My graduate degrees were
                    basically in midwestern and Indiana history, and I could provide some continuity for the magazine;
                    so from assistant editor I became associate editor, and on a number of occasions acting editor when
                    Carmony and, later on, Professor Madison (1976-1993), were not here. Beginning as just another
                    assistant editor graduate student, I gradually came to be viewed as second in command, and it became
                    part of my duties to train the other graduate student or assistant editors. I also took over a
                    larger amount of the editing duties.
                
                
                    Five editors of the Indiana Magazine of History,
                        
                            Bloomington
                        , 2004 Standing (1-r): Eric Sandweiss, Bernard W. Sheehan, James H. 
                            Madison
                         Seated (1-r): Donald E Carmony (with wife Mary), Richard J. Blackett
                    Photograph by Chris Meyer. Courtesy IU Home Pages
                
                
                    
                        IMH:
                     It seems that you must have trained the editors at some point in your career.
                
                    LS: Well, I felt that way sometimes. Professor Madison, of course, had worked on
                    editorial staffs before he came to the IMH. He was an excellent editor, but he was somewhat "new" to
                    Indiana history and definitely to the Indiana Magazine of History. We learned and
                    worked well together. I helped him, I think, and I will say that his years as editor of the magazine
                    were among the easiest, and pleasantest, of any of the thirty-four years I was here.
                
                    
                        IMH:
                     After thirty-four years, is there any way that individual articles or particular authors stay
                    in your mind or does it all blur together?
                
                    LS: I suppose you could say that much of it blurs together. I can't name all of
                    the authors I worked with. I can't name all of the articles that I edited. I suppose, as I've often
                    heard teachers say, you remember the good students and you remember the bad students. The ones in
                    the middle sometimes escape you. Fortunately, I had very few bad experiences with authors, and I had
                    some tremendously, amazingly good experiences with authors. Both I  remember.
                One occurred the very first issue that 1 edited. A very renowned historian from another state was
                    writing an article on Indiana in the Civil War period-using much the same material that I was using
                    for my dissertation at the time. Professor Carmony assigned that article to me to edit, and the
                    professor became somewhat perturbed, justifiably probably, that his article was being turned over to
                    a mere beginning graduate student who should not have the temerity to make any changes. 1 did make
                    quite a number of changes and questioned a number of his conclusions, and he became rather irate.
                    What he had not realized, I think, is that at that point in time I had little, if any, power of any
                    kind. Everything I did was checked, rechecked, and double-checked by Professor Carmony as editor.
                    Nothing went out to this author that did not have Professor Carmony's approval. But the author
                    didn't know this, and he threatened to withdraw the article. Well, Professor Carmony was a master at
                    dealing with situations like that, and eventually a compromise was reached: the author accepted what
                    we did and was happy with it. He got his article published, and all was well. But at the time I was
                    in tears for much of that first issue because I thought, "Oh, what have I done!" As I look back on
                    thirty-four years, that was probably the roughest time that I ever had. That was my baptism, and it
                    really didn't get any worse.
                Then I've had, oh, so many good experiences that are harder to describe. Some of them came as I was
                    editing documents that lay historians had submitted. Many of them were Civil War letters, and those
                    people were marvelous to work with. The articles in many cases ended up being very popular articles
                    for the Indiana Magazine of History. One I recall dealt with a series of letters
                    in 
                        Owen County
                    , our neighbor, and those people would give you anything, do anything to help. I often
                    told them, "Don't accept what I say as gospel. Question my editing because that's the only way we'll
                    really achieve something that's worthwhile. I'm not God; therefore, don't give in just because 1 say
                    that this is what I think would be best."
                
                    
                        IMH:
                     What did the IMH do particularly well, and what did it fail to do, during
                    your three decades here?
                
                    LS: I think one of the strengths of the Indiana Magazine of
                    History, one of the things that explains its one-hundred-year history, is what Cottman, the
                    founder of the IMH (1905-1907, 1911-1913), hoped to achieve, and what succeeding
                    editors always said they wanted to do. They wanted to make this a scholarly journal with articles by
                    professional historians that could be read and accepted in the history profession, but they also
                    wanted to publish history by lay historians-people who loved history, who liked history, and
                    sometimes did the most prodigious, unbelievable amounts of research. The editors sought articles
                    that would be easily read, acceptable, still scholarly,  but
                    from a lay point of view as opposed to the professional point of view. It's that balance, which I
                    think began with Cottman and which continues yet today, that makes the IMH what it
                    is. The majority of the IMH readers and subscribers are not professional
                    historians. They are lay historians. I think the magazine's ability to reach both groups is what has
                    made it strong. Articles by professional historians don't have to be couched in historical jargon,
                    uninteresting, dull, and boring; and by the same token those by nonprofessional historians can be
                    scholarly and important. It's a difficult balance to achieve. One thing that I remember hearing and
                    reading from the very beginning was that belief: we have to balance between the two. The journal
                    must be scholarly, but it must also involve the lay historians and the readers who are not
                    professionals.
                THE FUTURE OF INDIANA HISTORY
                
                    
                        IMH:
                     Our region has just lost two giants of the profession, Don Carmony and Tom Clark. Any thoughts
                    on the legacy of these men, or of their generation, for those of us who continue to write about
                    history today?
                
                    LS: They were both exceptional historians. Tom Clark, as did Don Carmony, belonged
                    to the people and was accepted by the people and could bridge the gap between the lay historian and
                    the professional historian. I think these two men have set a standard which may well never be
                    reached by anyone else. Historians today write, and publish, and edit excellent history. But these
                    two, it seems to me, were closer to the roots of Indiana and 
                        Kentucky
                     and the regions in which these states are located. They were closer to the roots, to
                    the people of the area, and thus had a feel for history that is going to be hard for other
                    historians to emulate. I always thought that Esarey was a pioneer Hoosier; therefore, he understood,
                    from first-hand experience, a great deal of what he was writing about. I've often wondered how those
                    who write about the Middle Ages ever achieve that rapport with their subjects. They do, but I think
                    it's harder. I believe Tom Clark and Don Carmony are two who have set a standard that others may
                    only strive for. But then, Don Carmony was my mentor, and I am admittedly prejudiced.
                
                    
                        IMH:
                     In terms of the content of Indiana history, do you feel that we are missing large portions of
                    understanding what's special about this state and this region?
                
                    LS: There's certainly no dearth of material or subjects so far as Indiana is
                    concerned. The IMH has often been praised or criticized-whichever way you want to look at it-for
                    publishing so many articles on the Civil War, but there's still so much that could be done. I don't
                    think we have any more than skimmed the surface of what we could write about-and that includes even
                    the old political, military, and economic history that was the focus for so  many years. Certainly there's much more to be learned about social
                    history and history of the people. We haven't even begun to plumb the depths. One of my all-time top
                    histories is R. C. Buley's The Old Northwest (1950). If you read that, you can see
                    that he sometimes just threw masses of information at you. I think if you look at some of that
                    information, and pull it out, and start from there, you would have interesting, pertinent material
                    to research for generations.
                
                    
                        IMH:
                     Do you have other thoughts?
                
                    LS: When I first came to the IMH I was thrilled, I was ecstatic, I could not
                    believe that I had gotten a position on a journal that was as widely known and as prestigious as the
                    IMH. I intended to stay two or three years, and then to move on to something else. I found that the
                    IMH is addictive. I think it was William Lynch, one of the former editors (1928-1941), who said that
                    at a very busy point in his life he had taken on the Indiana Magazine of History
                    and put a lot of effort and energy into it. I'm not quoting exactly, but as he looked back on it, he
                    said that it was something he could never regret. I feel the same way. Cottman, I know, said at the
                    end of the first year's publishing there were many arguments against even continuing the thing, but
                    he had put so much effort into it that he stayed with it a year, and then another year, and then
                    another. That is very much the way I felt and feel about the IMH. I loved-I'm sure Professor Bernard
                    Sheehan, another editor (1996-2002) under whom I worked, would tell me I should not use "loved"-but
                    I loved my job at the IMH and gave it up reluctantly. But again the word is "continuity." Cottman
                    was really a very amazing person. The standards that he set for the magazine, what he said he wanted
                    to do, every editor since has said the same things. Every time you stepped inside the IMH offices, whomever the editor, you very frequently heard those same tenets, those same
                    expressions, over and over again. The four editors with whom I worked had very, very different
                    personalities and very different interests. But more than their differences, I think, it was their
                    belief in the Indiana Magazine of History, their belief in the standards set up in
                    the very beginning, that has made the IMH what it is. The magazine has lasted for one hundred years
                    not because of any changes that have occurred, but because of the continuity the editors have
                    maintained.
            
            
            
                The Narratives and Counternarratives of Indiana Legal History
                DAVID J. BODENHAMER AND RANDALL T. SHEPARD
                Every state has a story its citizens tell to identify where they are from and who they are.1 Indiana's narrative is both American and midwestern. Hoosiers are the most
                    representative of Americans, or so we believe. Indiana is the home of 
                        Middletown
                    , the name sociologists Robert and Helen Lynd gave to 
                        Muncie
                    , the site for their famous studies in the 1920s and 1930s. We are literally and
                    metaphorically residents of the "Crossroads of America," the tag cited most often by the state's
                    tourism and economic development offices. We live in the nation's heartland, a broad middle ground
                    from 
                        Ohio
                     to 
                        Kansas
                     where the values that made our country great find their strongest and most fruitful
                    expression. Like all midwesterners, but more so, we Hoosiers are authentically American.
                Of course, there is a counternarrative to the Indiana story that emphasizes the middling nature of
                    our history. In this telling, we are stifled by consensus 
                        David J. Bodenhamer is executive director of the Polis Center and professor of history at
                            Indiana University-Purdue University 
                                Indianapolis
                            . The Honorable Randall T. Shepard has served as Chief Justice of the Indiana
                            Supreme Court since 1987. This article is a draft of the introduction to The
                                History oj Indiana Law, edited by Bodenhamer and Shepard, forthcoming from 
                                Ohio
                             University Press in 2006. The volume is the fifth in the 
                                Ohio
                             University Press Series on Law, Society, and Politics in the Midwest and is
                            published in association with the Indiana Bar Foundation.
                        
                            1 The idea of narratives used in this essay is borrowed from Andrew L.
                            Cayton and Susan E. Gray, eds., The American Midwest: Essays on Regional
                                History (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 2001).
                    
                     and marked by mediocrity. We are followers, not leaders; the
                    state of vice presidents, not presidents. We are the "booboisie": small-minded shopkeepers, farmers,
                    and mill workers who are always placing respectability before creativity, petty morality before
                    progressive ideas. Our motto in this counternarrative is "Good enough is good enough."
                In both versions of the Indiana story, law plays a role. In them, as in all variants of the American
                    story, law is an embodiment of values. We are a nation-and a state-of laws. In our national
                    mythology, law is the instrument of popular will and the protector of individual liberties. Stemming
                    from fundamental compacts, national and state constitutions, these laws reflect who we are and shape
                    the society we are becoming. The preferred narrative casts law as forward-looking or progressive.
                    Law has enabled a polyglot society to meld and has provided both ballast and impetus to an economy
                    that rapidly moved from agriculture to industry to service activities over a brief 150-year history.
                    The counternarrative is darker in its portrait, seeing law as discriminatory and protective of
                    entrenched interests. In this story, law is oppressive and moralistic, the stern guardian of
                    small-town values that kept Indiana benighted and backward, an obstacle to progress rather than its
                    aide.
                Neither story is correct, but what is striking about both is their inability to speak with
                    discernment or detail about the role of law in Indiana's history. A cursory glance through our
                    primers reveals why. For most of our chroniclers, law is present primarily during the foundational
                    moments in our past-the Northwest Ordinance of 1787, the Constitution of 1816, and the Constitution
                    of 1851. During these events, law is seminal: it is the expression of our highest aspirations, and
                    sometimes-as with the 1851 prohibition of African American immigration-it reveals our deeper shame.
                    At other times, law is largely the result of politics, the true central actor in both versions of
                    the Indiana story. It is the exercise of power-sometimes for good cause, sometimes not-wielded by
                    the legislature or by the governor but only rarely by its chief guardian, the state's courts.
                In truth, the role of law in Indiana's story is complex. It has been progressive and conservative,
                    enlightened and reactionary, influenced by law elsewhere and isolated from the larger national legal
                    culture. Dominant political and economic interests have wielded it to serve their purposes, but its
                    basic thrust has been democratic, not hegemonic. In a state not known for innovation, Indiana law
                    has been cautiously progressive.
                Legal culture, by definition, is the formal and informal expression of values, attitudes, and
                    assumptions that have shaped both the operation and perception of law. It is the matrix of ideas
                    that expresses how the world should operate; these ideas reflect, as well, beliefs about how the
                    world operates in fact. Legal culture is also the response of law, in its structure and substance,
                    to individual and group interests. It is both an expression of 
                    power and an attempt to find an acceptable compromise among diverse and competing interests within
                    the larger society.2
                
                American society, past and present, is marked by diversity and conflict. One measure of the law's
                    success and vitality is the degree to which it promotes consensus. By this standard, Indiana's legal
                    culture demonstrates a remarkable consensus on values that continues to shape the state's response
                    to contemporary issues. These values include gradual change, accommodation, public-private
                    cooperation, and economy in government. Indiana's legal history reflects that of the nation and
                    makes real the oft-repeated claim of the state's representative character. But to rely too heavily
                    on this theme is to obscure the nature of Hoosier jurisprudence. It fails to acknowledge how Indiana
                    law fits squarely with the national paradigm-and, at times, how it does not. Indiana legal history
                    may exist at the crossroads of the history of American law, but more than once the state has taken a
                    road less traveled.
                Three cultural moments in the state's past help us to understand the contours of Indiana's legal
                    heritage-its birth in an age of revolutionary republicanism, its growth in a democratic and
                    entrepreneurial society, and its maturity in an environment of corporate and national power. The
                    story that emerges is one of transition from law as an instrument to create the good society to law
                    as the protector of a society deemed good by its residents.
                An accident of timing shaped the initial nature of Indiana law. The state was the sixth created after
                    the American Revolution and the first admitted after the War of 1812, the so-called second war for
                    independence that secured the nation's revolutionary character. Equally important, Indiana was the
                    second state developed out of the Northwest Territory established by the Northwest Ordinance of
                    1787. This charter document was seminal in establishing a midwestern legal culture. Not only did it
                    set forth a common framework for territorial expansion based on the principles and ideas of
                    revolutionary republicanism, but it represented a "heroic effort to guarantee the nation's future
                    prosperity and power by defining the rules of everyday conduct on both the private and public
                        levels."3 The influence of the Ordinance persisted long after pioneer
                    settlements had become prosperous and stable communities.
                The values embraced by the Northwest Ordinance included widespread ownership of property as a
                    guarantor of social stability, the use of agriculture to promote prosperity, and a commitment to
                    moral and material 
                        
                            2 Kermit L. Hall, The Magic Mirror: Law in American
                            History (
                                New York
                            , 1989), 6.
                        
                            3 Andrew R. L. Cayton and Peter S. Onuf, The Midwest and
                                the Nation: Rethinking the History of an American Region (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1990), 3; Peter S. Onuf, Statehood and Union: A History of
                                the Northwest Ordinance (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1987), chaps. 4-7.
                    
                    
                    
                        Indiana State Constitution of 1816 Born in an age of revolutionary republicanism, the state
                            constitution invoked law as the instrument of a good society.
                        Courtesy Indiana State Archives
                     development. It was a Jeffersonian vision that emphasized public virtue, civic engagement,
                    and interdependence as antidotes to the rampant individualism and selfishness associated with
                    frontier societies. In its recipe for an orderly march to statehood, the Ordinance sought to link
                    material and moral progress. Encouraging the establishment of courts, schools, and churches, and
                    banning slavery from the territory, for example, promoted public morality and good citizenship and
                    made possible a "new republican order of prosperity, peace, and decorum."4
                
                Although the Ordinance's specific provisions ceased to possess legal authority after statehood, much
                    of Indiana's early law reflects its continuing influence. The Constitution of 1816, for example,
                    created a state obligation to encourage educational progress by free and open public schools and by
                    publicly funded libraries. It required the state's laws "to countenance and 
                        
                            4 Cayton and Onuf, The Midwest and the Nation,
                        9.
                    
                     encourage the principles of humanity, honesty, industry, and
                    morality," virtues that were at once both republican and midwestern. Indiana's penal code was to be
                    "founded on the principles of reformation, and not of vindictive justice," and the General Assembly
                    was charged with establishing asylums for the aged, infirm, or other persons who needed the "aid and
                    beneficence of society" to become productive citizens and "lose, by usefulness, the degrading sense
                    of dependence."5
                
                Statute law and judicial opinion often, although not always, mirrored these constitutional
                    injunctions. Legislators early abolished whipping as a permissible form of punishment. Debates on
                    the abolition of the death penalty were a staple of General Assembly sessions during the middle
                    decades of the nineteenth century, but reformers succeeded only in shifting from public hangings to
                    executions held behind prison walls. Establishment of a penitentiary also found support, and a
                    state-funded institution founded on reformative ideals was established in 1821. Missing from this
                    list of progressive acts were public schools. The legislature created what is now Indiana University
                    in 1820, but the free and open schools mandated for the lower grades never materialized. Public
                    libraries, too, remained more promise than reality.
                The use of law to create the good society also found expression in measures to regulate morality
                    through criminal law. The code itself-actually the criminal statutes taken as a whole-doubled in
                    size between 1816 and the Civil War, and most violations were classified as misdemeanors or minor
                    crimes that threatened the good order of society more than life or property. Although economic
                    crimes such as theft were a central concern of lawmakers, an increasing number of laws focused on
                    preserving public morality. Hoosier lawmakers targeted sexual deviance, intemperance, and especially
                    gambling; one-seventh of the substantive sections of the state's 1817 code, for instance, addressed
                        gaming.6 These laws, along with others that focused on public disorder and
                    riots, provide an index to the values most important to Indiana residents. The good society fostered
                    responsible citizens, civic order, and public morality.
                In their attempt to shape the infant state through the adoption of law, legislators and judges
                    responded both to their environment and to ideals 
                        
                            5 Indiana Constitution of 1816, art. 9, sees. 1, 2, 4, 5. Documents
                            relevant to the Constitution of 1816 and the full text of the Constitution are printed in
                            Charles Kettleborough, Constitution Making in Indiana: A Source Book oj
                                Constitutional Documents with Historical Introduction and Critical Notes; Vol. 1,
                            1780-1851 (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. 1; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916), 65-133.
                        
                            6 David J. Bodenhamer, The Pursuit ojJustice: Crime and Law
                                in Antebellum Indiana (
                                New York
                            , 1986), 26.
                    
                     that sprang from the revolutionary experience. Early Indiana
                    was a pioneer state, sparsely settled with untamed lands and poor transportation. Like all frontier
                    states, it appealed to immigrants who sought new opportunities and the chance for a new life.
                    Exploiting the imagined riches of an untapped landscape required, above all, the protection of
                    private property and the stability of economic transactions. But society was more than an economy:
                    it was community, as well, and here lawmakers accepted the American Revolution's embrace of communal
                    norms and a publicly virtuous citizenry as essential for the advancement of liberty itself. Not
                    surprisingly, many of the state's laws, civil and criminal, sought to advance these goals, which,
                    after all, were central to the concept of a triumphant new American society, radically different
                    from the corrupt order of ancient Europe.
                Out of this conception of Indiana as a commonwealth, the General Assembly acted to promote the
                    state's interests. An early example was the 1821 act creating an ambitious state highway system: two
                    dozen roads to link all parts of Indiana to the new capital at 
                        Indianapolis
                     and paid for by the sale of public lands. The law's purpose was both democratic and
                    economic. Roads were necessary to allow all citizens the opportunity to participate in state
                    government; they also were required to move goods to market. Other states sought to attract private
                    investment for such public purposes through monopoly charters, but Indiana chose instead to use
                    public funds to advance a public good. It followed the same path when it floated statebacked bonds
                    to finance the construction of a statewide canal network in the 1830s. The impulse to use public
                    funds to promote the general welfare proved short-lived, running afoul of a preference for local
                    control and decentralized administration in the construction of roads and a depression that rendered
                    the state insolvent and forced it to jettison the canal project. The lessons in these uses of law
                    were instructive for Hoosiers, even if scholars have labeled the projects as misguided: private
                    initiative, not public action, was a safer way to promote the public good.7
                
                Another contradiction between constitutional ideals and the law in practice emerged early in the
                    state's history. An aversion to taxes, still a hallmark of Indiana culture, forced numerous
                    compromises with the lofty sentiments expressed in the 1816 constitution. A statewide system of
                    public schools was stillborn, starved by lack of funding and a fear of losing local control. By the
                    1840s, the visions of reforming criminals in a state penitentiary had become a cost-saving system of
                    private prisons and convict labor. 
                        
                            7 James H. 
                                Madison
                            , The Indiana Way: A State History (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1986), 86. On the Internal Improvements Act see Donald F. Carmony, Indiana, 1816-1850: The Pioneer Era (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1998), 185-201.
                    
                     In other ways not affected by public funding, lawmakers set a
                    course at odds with the state's formally ascribed aspirations. The Constitution of 1816 banned
                    slavery in the state-and, in unambiguous language, the Indiana Supreme Court decided in State v. Lasselle (1820) that the few slaves still in the state were free-but neither the
                    constitution's prohibition of slavery nor its assertion that all men were born free and equal
                    blocked the spate of antiblack legislation passed during the first five decades of statehood. Even
                    the promise of stable communities anchored by strong families came under assault in the scandal of
                    easy divorce laws in the 1850s.
                The development of such tensions precipitated the rise in Indiana of a new legal ethic-one that
                    emphasized individual autonomy more than communal values. Individualism and equality had emerged as
                    dominant themes in American culture by the 1830s, as witnessed by the triumph of free-market
                    capitalism and Jacksonian democracy. Both developments emphasized limited government as a condition
                    of liberty. The lineage of this belief ran to the Revolution, but it acquired new language and
                    achieved new force in the middle decades of the nineteenth century. The contemporary French visitor
                    Alexis de Tocqueville had observed that the quest for profit was the quintessential characteristic
                    of the American people, and now a majority of Americans, including Hoosiers, believed that the
                    surest road to profit lay through privatizing the marketplace.
                Under this new creed, the signal role of government-and, therefore, of law-was to remove barriers
                    that prevented men from competing as equals in the political arena and economic marketplace.
                    Universal white adult male suffrage and general incorporation statutes were only two of the numerous
                    legal reforms embraced by Indiana and other states to achieve this end. Both legislators and jurists
                    demonstrated a keen awareness of the course of legal reform nationally and acted to bring state law
                    into a closer correspondence with national norms. Initiatives to codify the law in the 1830s and
                    1840s followed templates established by the nation's leading commercial states, especially in
                    banking, creditor-debtor, and contract law.8 The respected supreme court reports
                    compiled by Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    , the leading Indiana jurist of his day, also promoted the notion that the state's case
                    law aligned with the national legal culture.
                This awareness of events in other states provided the context for a new constitution, even though the
                    immediate impetus came from the fiscal crisis that followed the canal debacle. A wave of state
                    constitutional reform had begun in the 1820s and had reached its zenith by the 1840s, with one-half
                    of the states revising or rewriting their constitutions by 1861. After several 
                        
                            8 See Morton J. Horwitz, The Transformation of American
                                Law, 1780-1860 (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1977).
                    
                     false starts earlier in the decade, Hoosier leaders in 1848
                    agreed that Indiana required a new constitution to make government more responsive to changing
                    social and economic conditions. The Indiana Constitution of 1851 largely reflected the same impulses
                    that drove the creation of new state constitutions throughout the Midwest. The result of
                    market-oriented Jacksonian democracy, it captured the popular wariness of government by limiting its
                    role, especially in matters relating to the economy, taxation, legislative authority, and individual
                        liberties.9 The constitution also included darker language from the state's
                    counternarrative: it banned black migration, making Indiana the only midwestern state to do so in
                    its fundamental charter.
                The ethic of individualism and the distrust of governmental power embodied by the 1851 constitution
                    promoted a conception of criminal law that was more liberal than the national norm. The new charter,
                    for example, granted authority to the legislature to modify or abolish the grand jury. To its
                    defenders, the grand jury was an ancient and essential instrument in the continuing battle to
                    maintain public order and promote public virtue. Opponents, who proposed an alternate system of
                    public examination and presentment, viewed the institution as inimical to individual liberty because
                    of its secret, ex parte proceedings. Three midwestern states-
                        Michigan, Ohio
                    , and Indiana-debated the abolition of the grand jury in constitutional conventions in
                    the late 1840s and early 1850s, but Indiana was the only state to include a clause permitting the
                    legislature to abolish it.10 Three years later, the state supreme court also
                    embraced the philosophy of restraint on governmental power by interpreting the new constitution's
                    promise of right to counsel to mean that the state had to provide an attorney at public expense for
                    indigent defendants in felony cases, a result the U.S. Supreme Court did not reach until the
                        1960s.11
                
                
                    
                        9 Hall, Magic Mirror, 103-105. On the Constitution of 1851
                        see Carmony, Indiana, 1816-1850, 403-51. For a comparison with 
                            Ohio
                        's Constitution of 1851, see Barbara A. Terzian, "
                            Ohio
                        's Constitutional Conventions and Constitutions," in The History oj 
                                Ohio
                             Law, ed. Michael Les Benedict and John E Winkler (2 vols., 
                            Athens, Ohio
                        , 2004), 1:50-60. Significantly, the framers of Indiana's new constitution saw the
                        legislature, not the executive, as the primary threat to liberty, or so the president of the
                        convention believed, as noted in his closing remarks: "[0]f the three departments … the
                        legislative or law making department or power, is the one above all others most likely to
                        encroach upon the rights of the citizen and to subvert the liberties of the mass of the people;
                        hence the necessity to restrain, (within proper and safe limits) not the people themselves, but
                        those to whom their power for a time may be delegated, for the purpose of making laws for their
                        government." Journal of the Convention of the People of Indiana (1851; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1936), 997.
                    
                        10 David J. Bodenhamer, "CriminalJustice and Democratic Theory in Antebellum
                        America: The Grand Jury Debate in Indiana," Journal of the Early Republic, 5
                        (Winter 1985), 481-502.
                    
                        11 Webb v. Baird, 6 Ind. 13 (1854).
                
                
                Two particular constitutional provisions strongly influenced the future development of Indiana legal
                    culture-the prohibition on state debt and the popular election of state judges. Unlike the new
                    constitutions in sister states, Indiana's constitution did not place a limit on state indebtedness:
                    it banned it outright. Though a reasonable response to the unfulfilled promises of the failed
                    internal improvement scheme, the ban inhibited the pace of change by forcing Indiana lawmakers into
                    extraordinary measures to keep state government responsive to new needs. The popular election of
                    judges had a similar effect, though in a different direction. Not only were all levels of state
                    courts elective, but the new constitution expanded the number of lower courts and required circuit
                    judges to live in a county within the circuit. When coupled with other mandates reflective of
                    Indiana culture but at odds with national trends--for instance, that juries be arbiters of both fact
                    and law in criminal cases and that any adult male of good moral character could be admitted to the
                    bar-the election of judges reinforced the state's insular and localist tendencies and inhibited the
                    development of a consistent and cohesive common law.
                As has often been the case in Indiana history, outside forces provided a counterbalance to the
                    particularistic impulses of Indiana lawmakers. The Civil War strengthened the role of the national
                    government and blunted the political claims of Democrats, who not only ardently advocated limited
                    government and local control, but also lent only lukewarm support to the Union and completely
                    rejected emancipation. The industrialization spurred by the Civil War and the emergence of a
                    national market drew the state headlong into a new economic order, but the depression of the 1870s
                    reinforced the localism and hostility to government that had marked the state's late antebellum
                        years.12 The legal response fit the dominant laissez-faire economic theory
                    of the period, which advocated a limited role for government in the market and no restrictions on
                    the free flow of capital. Lax banking laws, a favorable tort environment, and the absence of
                    corporate regulation were hallmarks of late nineteenth-century Indiana law. The state trailed other
                    midwestern states in passing labor and welfare legislation, not from a lack of concern about the
                    conditions of the industrial workplace but because its blended creed of individualism and Social
                    Darwinism found value in unrestrained competition. In a legal culture that favored limited
                    government interference in the economy, the absence of regulation extended as well to the struggle
                    between labor and management. For this reason, perhaps, labor unions found a home in Indiana.
                
                    
                        12 Indiana was not alone in its retreat from the more activist government of
                        the Civil War period. See Morton Keller, Affairs ojState: Public Life in Late
                            Nineteenth-Century America (
                            Cambridge
                        , Mass., 1977), 318-20.
                
                
                
                    An Indiana glassworks at midnight, August 1908 Late nineteenth-century Indianans were slow to
                        accept protection for child workers, and the state's courts of the time provided little recourse
                        for anyone injured on the job, child or adult.
                    Photograph by Lewis Hine, courtesy Library of Congress
                
                Late nineteenth-century Indianans did not use law aggressively to redeem constitutional pledges or to
                    address social issues. Consider child labor. In this area, Hoosiers uniformly expressed concern-it
                    was not uncommon for children as young as ten years of age to perform heavy work for long hours in
                    Indiana factories-but the state lagged behind others in providing a legal remedy. The General
                    Assembly began debating the issue shortly after the Civil War, but not until 1897 did it prohibit
                    the employment of children under fourteen in manufacturing or limit the work day of any child under
                    sixteen to ten hours. Even then, the law was not enforced vigo rously. A 1910 survey revealed that
                    Indiana had a higher percentage of child labor than all but two northern states. The regulation of
                    working conditions for women was slower still in coming, despite documentation of low wages and
                    dismal working conditions.13
                
                When working conditions led to injuries, workers had little prospect of obtaining compensation
                    through the courts. Like most other states in the 
                        
                            13
                            
                                Madison
                            , Indiana Way, 165-67; Clifton J. Phillips, Indiana in Transition: The Emergence of an Industrial Commonwealth, 1880-1920 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1968), 327-36.
                    
                     nineteenth century, Indiana had adopted various common-law
                    doctrines that, taken together, made recovery extremely difficult. One of these, the fellow-servant
                    rule, held that employers were not vicariously liable for injuries to one worker caused by the
                    negligence of another worker. Courts also recognized assumption of risk as a defense available to
                    employers, saying that an employee fit for the job could be deemed to understand and assume the
                    risks that came with it and might indeed be better informed about the details of those risks than
                    the employer. Finally, an employee's contributory negligence, even if it played a lesser role in the
                    injury than the negligence of the employer, commonly barred recovery. The General Assembly attempted
                    to open the door to recovery by workers in 1893, but the judiciary held unconstitutional enough of
                    its provisions that the effort went for naught. It was only when Indiana adopted a comprehensive
                    workers’ compensation scheme in 1915 that the deadly trio of common-law doctrines finally was put to
                    the sword.14
                
                The law of contract also proceeded in classic formulas, much influenced by the growing importance of
                    business transactions among expanding commercial organizations. The courts recognized regular
                    defenses to contract claims, like duress and mistake, but always attached substantial importance to
                    the notion that people could make their own agreements and expect them to be vindicated at law. This
                    notion found such a robust and lengthy life in the state that a federal appellate court in 
                        Chicago
                     in the late twentieth century observed, "Freedom of contract is alive and well and it
                    is living in Indiana."15
                
                The democratic zeal for local control that marked Indiana's legal culture began to lessen, albeit
                    slowly, during the first decades of the twentieth century as Hoosiers wrestled with the transition
                    from a rural agricultural society to an urban industrial one. The harsh consequences of
                    laissez-faire economics finally provoked a progressive response from both major political parties
                    that mimicked the reform platforms from other midwestern states, especially 
                        Wisconsin
                    . Child labor and workers’ compensation laws, a state income tax, a central highway
                    commission, health and safety regulations, and a host of other bills appeared routinely before the
                    General Assembly in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. The resulthesitant, moderate
                    reform-remained true to the state's character. Enacted measures included a strengthened child labor
                    law, the establishment of an inheritance tax, the creation of state railroad and public service
                    commissions, 
                        
                            14 Indiana, Laws of the State of Indiana, Passed at
                            the 69th Session of the General Assembly (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1915), 392.
                        
                            15
                            
                                
                                    United States
                                 v. Stump Home Specialties Mfg., Inc., 905 E2d 1117 (7th Cir.
                        1990).
                    
                     and the second juvenile court system in the 
                        United States
                    . Other progressive reforms came from energetic efforts by leaders of long-established
                    agencies, such as the successful efforts by the state board of health to combat disease and protect
                    the purity of food and water. But the state was too divided politically and its cultural divisions
                    too stark, as seen in the campaigns to enact prohibition, to bring much change. "Conservative
                    resistance among citizenry and political leadership," historian James 
                        Madison
                     observed, "combined with a cautious state supreme court and difficulties of amending
                    the state constitution to defeat or postpone many of the progressive proposals."16
                
                The progressive movement in Indiana found its strongest voice during the 1910s and 1920s in
                    Congressman Charles LaFollette of 
                        Evansville
                    , a member of the family whose very name represented progressivism in the national mind.
                    Indiana adopted most of the prominent measures of the age, addressing the working conditions of
                    women and children and enacting a workers’ compensation system that wiped out the unholy trinity of
                    legal doctrines-the fellow-servant rule, assumption of risk, and contributory negligence-that had
                    previously barred injured employees from receiving any damage awards for injuries on the job. The
                    state dithered on other progressive issues until federal action forced a change. Woman suffrage
                    finally won favor in the General Assembly in 1917, but the difficulty of amending the state
                    constitution and an adverse decision by the Indiana Supreme Court kept women from the ballot box
                    until the ratification of the Nineteenth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution in 1920. The next year
                    Indiana voters approved an amendment to keep the Indiana constitution consistent with the U.S.
                    Constitution.
                In the counternarrative of Indiana legal history, the decades of progressive reform also witnessed
                    the triumph of prohibition in the state and the ascendancy of the Ku Klux Klan. Adopted by the
                    legislature in 1917, two years before a federal constitutional amendment made the nation legally
                    dry, prohibition was a middle-class reform aimed at what many perceived to be a lower-class and
                    ethnic problem. The Klan also took aim at these groups in its anti-Catholic, anti-Semitic, antiblack
                    rhetoric of superpatriotism and 100-percent Americanism. The influence of the Ku Klux Klan was
                    enormous, reaching city halls and the State House itself. Mercifully, the Klan's reign was brief and
                    its impact on the state's legal culture slight. The end came quickly in 1925, when Klan leader D. C.
                    Stephenson was convicted of kidnapping and murdering a young woman, a conviction finally upheld on
                    appeal by the Indiana Supreme Court in 1932.
                
                    
                        16
                        
                            Madison
                        , Indiana Way, 222; Phillips, Indiana in
                        Transition, 469-502.
                
                
                
                    Governor Thomas R. Marshall, 1909-1913 This steely-eyed progressive proposed sweeping changes to
                        Indiana's state constitution, but the state supreme court bucked tradition and partisanship to
                        prevent the attempt.
                    Courtesy Indiana Historical Society, Bass Photo Company Collection, 29754
                
                The role of the Indiana Supreme Court-and, by extension, of the state's judiciary-during this period
                    of hesitant reform is instructive in understanding the development of Hoosier law. From the
                    beginning of statehood, the General Assembly had remained the dominant force in shaping Indiana law.
                    The democratic impulse that fostered ratification of the 1851 constitution simultaneously expanded
                    the number of judicial offices dramatically and circumscribed judicial authority, at least
                    notionally, by making judges elective and therefore accountable to voters. Although this change fit
                    accepted notions of popular sovereignty, it inhibited the development of a truly independent
                    judiciary, at least as measured by the norms of its federal counterpart. Judges were politicians in
                    Indiana, and they approached lawmaking in ways both idiosyncratic and conservative. They deferred to
                    the legislature and, at the appellate levels, did little to advance new rights or powers under the
                    broad language of the Indiana constitution,  except in the area
                    of individual rights. In fairness, their formalistic approach differed little from that of their
                    brethren elsewhere during much of this period.17 Not until the advent of the
                    Progressive Era at the national level in the early twentieth century did theories of legal realism
                    begin to move the judicial firmament to any great degree. Indiana was no leader in this shift,
                    either.
                The judiciary's influence on law during these decades came largely as confirmation of the changes
                    wrought by legislative action. There were but two moments when the courts stepped in to thwart the
                    will of the other branches. The first occurred in 1911-1912, when the state's popular Democratic
                    governor, Thomas R. Marshall, placed sweeping constitutional changes before the legislature.
                    Marshall's plan called for a line-item veto of appropriations, raised the veto override threshold to
                    three-fifths, expanded both houses of the General Assembly and the Supreme Court, and provided for
                    nearly every known populist tool of the age: initiative, referendum, and recall. The changes were so
                    far-reaching that they became known as the "Marshall Constitution." The governor and legislature
                    agreed to submit the "new constitution" to the voters immediately, without waiting for the approval
                    of a second General Assembly, as required by the 1851 constitution. There was, of course, some
                    American precedent for such a maneuver: the framers of the federal Constitution submitted their work
                    in 1787 directly to the states without pausing to comply with the amending procedure embodied in the
                    Articles of Confederation.
                Opponents of the new constitution cried foul and obtained an injunction preventing presentation of
                    the Marshall Constitution to the voters at the 1912 general election. Although the Indiana Supreme
                    Court had recently acquired a Democratic majority, it affirmed the injunction by a 3-2 vote when one
                    of the Democratic members joined with the two Republicans to affirm the amending processes adopted
                    in 1851 as the sole means of changing the state's organic law.18 Although
                    Governor Marshall railed at the court's interference with the democratic process, he eventually
                    withdrew his proposals and soon pursued progressive policies as vice president to the quintessential
                    progressive, Woodrow Wilson. Tempers had calmed four years later when the wayward Democratic justice
                    came up for reelection; his fellow Democrats renominated him unanimously. That the supreme court
                    would stand in such strenuous opposition to the other branches in the Marshall Constitution case is
                    the exception that proves the rule.
                
                    
                        17 Hall, Magic Mirror, 230.
                    
                        18
                        Ellinghatn v. Dye, 178 Ind. 336, 99 N. E. 1 (1912).
                
                
                The judiciary's second moment of note in the first half of the twentieth century was more typical.
                    Republicans had spent the entire Great Depression in the wilderness, even in Indiana. During the
                    Democratic ascendancy, both nationally and in the state, government became more active and more
                    expansive, a result embraced by Hoosiers. Paul McNutt, elected governor in the Democratic landslide
                    of 1932, reorganized state government, placing more power in the executive branch-and more patronage
                    in the hands of the governor-and effectively diminishing the authority of local officials. Eight
                    years later, power shifted back to Republicans, who swept both houses of the legislature, elected a
                    Republican to the supreme court for the first time since 1928, and carried nearly the entire list of
                    their nominees, except for governor, for the executive branch. With a State House full of newly
                    elected Republicans, the party decided to grab what patronage it could by reorganizing the executive
                    branch. It advanced a plan to rearrange the government into a series of large units patterned on the
                    McNutt proposals. Under this arrangement, the directors of each unit were to be chosen by
                    commissions consisting of the governor and two other executive officers who almost always were
                    Republicans. The effect would have been to strip the governor of effective control over the
                    personnel of the executive department. With the four Democratic justices from the 1930s still in the
                    majority, the state supreme court invalidated these statutes on a party-line vote of 4-1.19
                
                As they had been since the 1850s, judges still were brothers in the same political club with
                    governors and legislators, although they remained the least among equals. State parties chose both
                    executive and judicial nominees through state conventions in which the big political prizes were the
                    executive offices. Nominations for the supreme court frequently became occasions for balancing the
                    ticket or for trading votes with some small county delegation to achieve victory on a more important
                    office. This bias for relatively rural judges, of course, affected the outlook of the court itself,
                    reinforcing the localism of Indiana legal culture. The political system also produced a high level
                    of turnover because judges occupied "down-ballot" offices most susceptible to shifts in the
                    political winds and because low judicial salaries led to frequent midterm resignations. The nadir of
                    the supreme court's status under this system undoubtedly occurred in 1955. The resignation of an
                    incumbent justice prompted a series of temporary appointments by Governor George N. Craig. In a
                    period of less than five months, Craig appointed four different justices du jour. One of these had
                    the bad manners to tell the press that the "last thing in my life I would do" was to stay on the
                        
                        
                            19
                            Tucker v. State, 218 Ind. 614, 35 N. E. 2d 270 (1941).
                    
                    
                    
                        Governor Matthew Welsh addresses an NAACP Freedom Rally, August 10, 1963 Aligning himself
                            with President John F Kennedy, this Democrat pushed the Indiana General Assembly to reform
                            sales tax, civil rights, and environmental protection.
                        Courtesy Indiana Historical Society, 
                                
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Recorder Collection
                     highest bench, but that serving for a few months "would allow my grandchildren to say that
                    grand-daddy served on the Supreme Court."20
                
                The election of 1960 set the stage for changes that would create a third cultural moment in Indiana's
                    legal history. It was, as presidential years usually are in Indiana, a Republican year; the leading
                    exception being the young and energetic Democratic lawyer Matthew Welsh, who won the governor's
                    office. Welsh aligned himself with the fresh approach of the Kennedy administration and with the
                    blizzard of policy initiatives that became the hallmark of the Johnson years. He pushed reforms
                    through the General Assembly on policies from the sales tax to civil rights remedies to protecting
                    the environment.
                
                    
                        20 Jerome L. Withered, Hoosier Justice: A History of the
                            Supreme Court of Indiana (
                            Lafayette
                        , Ind., 1998), 94.
                
                
                With the exception of New Deal relief, Indiana had never been hospitable territory for federal
                    initiatives; the state became famous during the 1950s and 1960s by turning down offers of federal
                    money for various social programs. The Welsh years ran only modestly against this Hoosier wariness
                    of things federal, but the election of Richard Nixon in 1968 altered more dramatically Indiana's
                    idea of the role it should play in relation to the federal government. President Nixon believed that
                    the initiatives of the KennedyJohnson years had placed too much emphasis on direct federal action.
                    He devised a "New Federalism" in which state governments became the principal implementers of new
                    federal initiatives. Although these new partnerships relied on state agreement to participate, it
                    was usually plain that if the state government did not agree, the federal government would proceed
                    through direct regulation. In fields such as worker safety, mining, and air and water pollution,
                    even relatively conservative Hoosiers preferred local management of day-to-day activities, even if
                    it meant entanglement with federal agencies. It did not hurt that some of the Nixon administration's
                    new initiatives were especially popular with Hoosiers, grants to state and local law enforcement
                    agencies to wage the "war on crime" being a prime example.
                Even though obvious changes occurred only later, the Welsh momentum created an environment favorable
                    to a host of constitutional reforms sent to the voters after he left office. Constitutional measures
                    approved by the voters in 1970 and 1972 proved to be momentous shifts, altering in important ways
                    the relative roles of the three branches. One clear result was an increase in the influence of the
                    state's appellate judiciary, especially the supreme court.
                In the first set of reforms, voters approved annual sessions of the legislature, which had been
                    meeting only every other year since the adoption of the 1851 constitution.21
                    This amendment put the General Assembly in a position to make law more quickly than had previously
                    been the case. To sustain this new role, the legislature created a permanent office of legislative
                    services that vastly improved the drafting of proposed legislation, a necessary legal craftsmanship
                    that resulted in technically sound bills. Annual sessions also gave legislative leadership a higher
                    visibility in the public arena than had been the case in the days when the General Assembly was only
                    in the capital for a few months every two years.
                Also in 1970, voters agreed to abandon partisan contests for the appellate bench, even as they were
                    selecting judicial candidates in the traditional manner. They approved a system modeled after the
                    so-called 
                        Missouri
                     Plan, 
                        
                            21 Indiana Constitution of 1851, art. 4, sec. 9. The schedule for
                            legislative sessions approved by voters as part of the amendment was removed by amendment in
                            1984.
                    
                     in which the governor appointed appellate judges from a list
                    fashioned by a constitutional commission of lawyers and nonlawyer citizen members. The governor's
                    appointees were subject to periodic retention votes.22 This amendment led to
                    dramatic changes in the courts as institutions. Because the referenda occurred only once every ten
                    years, the average time in service by the state's appellate judges increased dramatically. Six of
                    the ten longestserving justices in Indiana Supreme Court history have served since 1970. This
                    stability both raised the public profile of the appellate courts and made sustained judicial
                    initiatives possible. Longer tenures also became the norm in the chief executive's office when
                    voters agreed to permit the reelection of governors in 1972. Since this change, four of the state's
                    elected governors-Otis Bowen, Robert Orr, Evan Bayh, and Frank O'Bannon-have won two terms.
                These organic changes altered the roles of the players in developing Indiana law. A series of
                    governors with longer tenure and larger political clout left landmark policy initiatives embedded in
                    Indiana law-for example, the Bowen tax package designed to give property tax relief and the Orr "A+
                    Program" that increased spending and raised the level of accountability in education. The
                    legislature became a more professional body in which members served multiple terms, thanks to
                    skillfully gerrymandered districts. Myriad interim study committees emerged to consider legislative
                    remedies for a wide variety of issues. The permanent legislative services staff and the members’ own
                    staffs soon outnumbered the senators and representatives.
                The impact of these changes is evident in two ways that most voters rarely notice. First, the Indiana
                    General Assembly regularly adopts statutes devised by the National Conference of Commissioners on
                    Uniform State Laws, a body providing nonpartisan, well-drafted legislation that brings clarity and
                    stability to state statutory law. Although some of these acts directly and frequently affect the
                    lives of citizens (like Indiana's early adoption of the Uniform Dissolution of Marriage Act in
                    1973), they more often bring Indiana law into conformity with national economic and legal norms in
                    ways that make the Hoosier economy a complementary part of the national enterprise without prompting
                    any notice among the citizenry. Second, the Indiana General Assembly began a thorough and continuing
                    examination of the form of the state's law when it adopted an official Indiana Code in 1971; since
                    then it has sustained the effort through a routine and well-developed system of recodification.
                    These important processes make for a sounder body of law but rarely reach public attention.
                The most dramatic effect of the 1970 constitutional amendments has been in the role the state's
                    judiciary plays as a source of law reform. When 
                        
                            22 Indiana Constitution of 1851, art. 7, secs. 9-11.
                    
                     the Indiana Supreme Court adopted nearly wholesale the federal
                    rules of civil procedure, the court and the legislature agreed that both bodies would adopt the same
                    rules (one embodied in statute, the other by court order). The pace of such reforms has quickened in
                    the intervening years. At the beginning of the 1970s, the justices took bar discipline under their
                    wing and assumed greater authority over the rules of practice. Mandatory continuing legal education
                    for lawyers followed, imposed by court rule. This action paralleled the development of a new
                    institution under the court's umbrella, the Indiana Judicial Center, which bears responsibility for
                    mandatory continuing judicial education and a host of voluntary programs aimed at strengthening the
                    trial bench. By the 1990s, the supreme court deployed its rule-making authority for projects that
                    seemed rather substantive. The court issued Indiana's first codified rules of evidence. It issued
                    mandatory guidelines for the calculation of child support and then guidelines for "parenting time"
                    in divorced families and paternity cases. By rule, it revised the conduct of jury trials.
                The judiciary's appellate functions grew as the Indiana Court of Appeals expanded and as the supreme
                    court shed most of its mandatory criminal jurisdiction, thus permitting more attention to
                    developments in the civil law. More important, the judiciary became a branch that was "always open
                    for business" as the appellate courts applied the techniques of legal reasoning to the substantial
                    flow of disputes in fields such as corporate governance, collective bargaining, environmental
                    cleanup, marriage and children-not to mention the old standbys of tort and contract. This collective
                    outpouring of law and legal interpretation, bolstered by aggressive use of new electronic tools,
                    became a leading source of law for practitioners and citizens.
                Such aggressiveness brought increased public visibility, especially when the court forced action from
                    the other two branches of government. In no instance was this more true than in the tax reassessment
                    cases. At the turn of the millennium, newspapers regularly reported news of the ongoing political
                    debate over how to handle what was usually called the "courtordered reassessment crisis." During the
                    previous decade, both the Indiana Tax Court and the Indiana Supreme Court had declared
                    unconstitutional the system long used for assessing local property taxes. The early twentyfirst
                    century has witnessed a widespread alteration of values and a realignment of the state's budget to
                    accommodate the new fiscal reality, both occasioned by the sweeping property tax decisions.
                Whether these structural changes mark the emergence of a new moment in Indiana legal history, the
                    judiciary has gained parity with the legislature and governor as one of the prime actors in the
                    state's legal culture. In some ways, this shift seems inevitable, given the twentieth century's
                    emphasis on national standards in law (and elsewhere) as seen in the  development of national law schools, uniform codes, and large law firms
                    that practice far beyond the borders of their home state. Even countervailing forces in the nation's
                    legal culture served to strengthen the role of the state bench: for example, the Rehnquist Court's
                    rediscovery of federalism increased the visibility and role of state constitutions and supreme
                    courts, including those of Indiana.
                Whatever the outcome of recent changes, Indiana legal culture will continue to reflect the larger
                    social and political culture of the state itself. Here the historical record is certain: moderation
                    is the Indiana way. At times, the narrative of Indiana law has been remarkably progressive in its
                    embrace of the highest ideals of American constitutionalism, whether in nineteenth-century criminal
                    justice reforms or in the professional legal standards advanced by the judiciary in the late
                    twentieth century. But as often as the dominant theme appears, a subterranean narrative surfaces in
                    counterpoise. Localism, parsimony, and prejudice have all worked at various times to defeat the
                    fullest expressions of constitutional mandates ratified by Indiana voters. This story, of course,
                    unfolds in more places than Indiana. Indeed, it is an American story, one that Indiana, true to its
                    motto, expresses as completely as any of its sister states.
            
            
            
                REVIEWS
                
                    "Follow the Flag" A History of the 
                            Wabash
                         Railroad Company, By H. Roger Grant, (
                        DeKalb
                    : Northern 
                        Illinois
                     University Press, 2004. Pp. xii, 291. Maps, illustrations, notes, index. $49.95.)
                Although it dates to 1838, the 
                        Wabash
                     Railroad has not, until now, been the subject of a serious booklength study. H. Roger
                    Grant corrects this oversight by examining the 
                        Wabash
                     from its obscure beginning in Central 
                        Illinois
                    , to its expansion as a vital regional carrier, and finally through its acquisition by
                    the Norfolk and Western Railway.
                The author of previous books on the Erie-Lackawanna, 
                        Chicago
                     and Northwestern, and 
                        Chicago
                     Great Western Railroads, Grant has researched the 
                        Wabash
                     thoroughly and presents his findings in a readable, well-illustrated manner. Numerous
                    maps help clarify geographic factors, although a few additional maps would have helped. Grant
                    explains how numerous short lines were connected to produce significant railroads and then evolved
                    into a unique system that operated on each side of both the 
                        Chicago and St. Louis
                     gateways.
                Through numerous leasings, bankruptcies, and reorganizations, the company retained the name "
                        Wabash
                    " as if to display its pride in its Hoosier heritage. The railroad's original eastern
                    main line extended from 
                        Toledo, Ohio
                    , to 
                        St. Louis
                    , via Ft. 
                        Wayne
                     and the 
                        Wabash
                     Valley. For many years, Peru served as division point, shop town, and the location
                    (until 1964) of one of four hospitals operated by the 
                        Wabash
                     Employees Hospital Association. A second linemost of it now abandoned-was built across
                    Indiana's northern tier of counties in 1893 to shorten the distance between 
                        Detroit and Chicago
                    . A third line, along the Eel River between 
                        Logansport and Butler
                    , was leased for use in a 
                        New York
                    -
                        St. Louis
                     road.  After a long-running court battle, it was
                    returned to its original owner; the 
                        Wabash
                     then built a new connection from its original main line, near Ft. 
                        Wayne
                    , to 
                        Butler
                    , where it connected with a road to 
                        Detroit
                    .
                In the early 1880s, Jay Gould, the bad boy of nineteenth-century railroading, gained control of the 
                        Wabash
                    , which he visualized as the central link in an ocean-to-ocean system. After Gould's
                    death in 1892, his son, George, continued the father's plans, including an 1898 extension on
                    trackage rights over the Grand Trunk across southern 
                        Ontario
                     to Buffalo, N. Y., and a disastrous attempt to locate a terminal in 
                        Pittsburgh
                     in 1904. The younger Gould also improved the northern Indiana route and added use of
                    the MissouriKansas-
                        Texas
                     line, between Hannibal and Moberly, Mo., which created a faster route from the East to 
                        Kansas
                     City.
                During the 1920s, the 
                        Wabash
                     continued to expand. It acquired the 
                        Ann Arbor
                    , a 
                        Michigan
                     line, as well as the 11-mile 
                        New Jersey
                    , Indiana, and 
                        Illinois
                     Railroad (which entered 
                        South Bend
                    ) in 1926, and a switching road, the Lake Erie and Ft. 
                        Wayne
                    , in 1929. During the same period, the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Railroad acquired stock control of the 
                        Wabash
                    .
                Taking its cue from a favorite hobo ballad, the 
                        Wabash
                     fielded a fleet of 
                        Wabash
                     Cannonball passenger trains, but later discontinued the name. In 1950, however, it
                    restored the name to its premier St. LouisDetroit train and adopted the name for its fleet of fast
                    freights.
                Although it occupied a strategic location in mid-America and linked some of the country's most
                    vibrant cities, the 
                        Wabash
                     underwent numerous bankruptcies. Still, the railway always landed on its feet until
                    1964, when the Norfolk and Western leased and then acquired it, at last erasing a proud name from
                    the Official Railway Guide.
                
                RICHARD S. SIMONS of 
                        Marion
                     is a retired staff member of the former 
                        
                            Indianapolis
                         Star Sunday Magazine and former president of the Indiana Historical Society.
                    He is co-author of Railroads of Indiana (1997).
            
            
            
                
                    The Turmoil, By Booth Tarkington Introduction by Lawrence R. Rodgers, (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 2003. Pp. xix, 349. Illustrations. Paperbound, $18.95.)
                
                    Penrod and Sam, By Booth Tarkington Illustrated by Worth Brehm Introduction by
                    David J. Nordloh, (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 2003. Pp. xviii, 356 Illustrations. $32.95.)
                Even readers who are familiar with Booth Tarkington's name likely will not know that he was one of
                    the most widely read and prolific authors of his day; that he won two Pulitzer prizes; and that he
                    was part of Indiana's literary golden age, when Hoosier writers ranked second only to 
                        New York
                     writers in national popularity. Thanks to new editions of two Tarkington novels,
                    readers can find out what they've been missing. Two added bonuses are excellent introductory essays
                    about Tarkington's importance within the social milieu and the literary establishment of both his
                    day and our own.
                
                    The Turmoil, originally published in 1915, is the first book in the Growth trilogy-which also includes The Magnificent Ambersons (1918) and
                        The Midlander (1924)-and with those volumes provides a glimpse into changes
                    induced by industrialization and urbanization in the fictional city of Midland (likely modeled after 
                        Indianapolis
                    ). Penrod and Sam, published the following year, follows the escapades
                    of 12-year-old Penrod Schofield and his best friend, Sam Williams. Like all three Penrod novels, Penrod and Sam is based on the premise that boys are naturally predisposed to find
                    or create trouble. Together, the books provide a valuable re-introduction to Tarkington's talents as
                    social commentator, humorist, and, most of all, storyteller.
                
                    The Turmoil follows the Sheridan family, most of whom are obsessed with money,
                    power, and bigness. Their home, like those of other nouveaux riches, is
                    outrageously large, expensive, and ostentatious. Eventually, such materialistic values destroy the
                    Sheridan sons, except for Bibbs, the only male in the family who does not allow his life to revolve
                    around money and possessions.
                Because of its theme and setting, The Turmoil remains surprisingly relevant. A
                    generation earlier, the city had been "a pleasant big town of neighborly people" where the "air was
                    clean, and there was time to live" (p. 2). Within a few short years, however, the city "spread
                    itself out over the plain, mile after mile" (p. 4). Urbanization and industrialization left their
                    marks on the city: sound and air pollution;  hastily constructed
                    retail stores ever-expanding in size; and crammed, cramped, and flimsy housing. Trees, once
                    plentiful, have been replaced by "telegraph-poles and telephone-poles and electric-light poles and
                    trolleypoles by the thousand" (p. 83).
                While these descriptions sound familiar to city dwellers today, The Turmoil also
                    seems dated, in part because the narrator's voice occasionally intrudes with almost mythic
                    commentary on personified forces such as Wealth, Bigness, Smoke, and Prosperity. What most dates The Turmoil, however, is its reflection of racist attitudes. The Sheridans view
                    their African American servants as childlike simpletons, occasionally using racial epithets. A
                    reader's only recourse is to accept the novel grudgingly as a record of attitudes once held by white
                    middle-America.
                
                    Penrod and Sam fares a bit better, for Penrod's core circle of friends includes
                    African American boys. Yet, even here, several characters use racial epithets, and the butt of most
                    comic jokes is Verman, one of the African American boys. To Penrod's credit, however, his affection
                    for Verman is real, and his truly mean-spirited taunts are saved for a "mama's boy" at school, who
                    happens to be white.
                At its heart, Penrod and Sam is ultimately an innocent portrayal of adolescent boys
                    who fight boredom, social airs, and, occasionally, each other. Tarkington's wit and understatement
                    are irresistible and surprisingly sophisticated, with narration that is clearly written for adult
                    readers. A boy, notes the narrator at one point, "does not enjoy the effects of intoxication;
                    enjoyment of that kind is obtained only by studious application" (p. 159). Later, the narrator
                    describes a now-feral cat as once "profoundly oppressed, even in his youth, by the 
                        Puritan
                    
                    ideals of the house-hold.… He wanted free air and he wanted free life; he wanted
                    the lights, the lights, and the music. He abandoned the bourgeoisie irrevocably"
                    (p. 165). While traditionally touted as a "boy's book"-and young adolescent boys will probably find
                    Penrod's calamities engaging -Penrod and Sam will most likely appeal to adult
                    readers who want to reminisce about growing up in a "simpler" time or just to enjoy Tarkington's
                    humorous story-telling.
                In the end, both The Turmoil and Penrod and Sam are like the
                    eccentric aunt or uncle at a holiday dinner table: While embarrassing and offensive at times, on the
                    whole they're highly likable, sometimes thoughtprovoking, sometimes hilarious, and always worth a
                    listen. It's good to have Tarkington back at the table.
                BARBARA STEDMAN is assistant professor of English and honors fellow at Ball State University.
                    Her main research and teaching interest is Indiana's environmental literature. Our
                        Land, Our Literature (www. bsu. edu/ ourlandourlit), which deals with that subject, was
                    created by fifteen Ball State students under her direction.
            
            
            
                
                    In the Middle of the Middle West Literary Nonfiction from the Heartland, Edited by
                    Becky Bradway, (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 2003. Pp. xiii, 306. $55.00.)
                Truth to tell, I have always found regional books to be an odd, if perfectly understandable,
                    specialty of university presses. Universities exist in specific places (even those online have a
                    locus) and should serve, as best they can, their communities. And while the publication of reference
                    books for those interested in exploring facets of a particular part of the country cannot be
                    impugned, the implicit boosterism that seems to define the genre has often struck me as the proof of
                    just the opposite: region-esteem anxiety. This paradoxical tension between championing and defending
                    a region is perhaps never more apparent than when literary writers join the fray. After all, the
                    "literary" itself is a contested site for those seeking to achieve-or define-"success" within or
                    outside the "East Coast establishment."
                In this largely entertaining, often redundant, anthology of "literary nonfiction," forty-one writers,
                    selfidentified as Midwesterners (by birth, choice, or both), offer their snapshots of this region of
                    the country recently blamed and credited for the re-election of George W. Bush to the presidency of
                    the 
                        United States
                    . My invocation of the current Bush administration is not coincidental. Two of the major
                    criticisms of the Midwest by both natives and "outsiders" are its dogmatic conservative politics and
                    its generalized xenophobia. One would think that these themes would receive extensive treatment-if
                    only as rebuttal-in an anthology devoted to debunking many myths about the Midwest. Yet, not only is
                    there no subsection entitled "Politics," the subject itself is studiously avoided or marginalized.
                Such absence buffers the familiarity of so many of these essays. Indiana readers, for example, will
                    recognize the cheeky back-to-nature Transcendentalism of Scott Russell Sanders and swell with pride
                    at the rambunctious "a Hoosier is a Hoosier is a Hoosier" logic of Michael Martone. 
                        Illinois
                     readers will no doubt howl with glee at James McManus's hilarious ode to suburbia and
                    applaud S. L. Wisenberg's laudatory cityscape. And all transplanted Midwesterners will instantly
                    understand, even sympathize with, "outlander" Robert Grindy, who makes the quite sensible argument
                    that small towns in different states have more in common with one another than big cities and small
                    towns within the same state. His essay is found in one of the better sections of the anthology, "
                        California
                    , Midwest," which concerns population movements between the Midwest and the West. The
                    best section, however, is the first one, "Outskirts," which 
                    begins with a typically epiphanic narrative by Stuart Dybek, simply titled "Midwest," reaches its
                    apex with the McManus piece, "Your What Hurts?," and concludes with Jaimy Gordon's harrowing "Little
                    Man in the Woods."
                That being said, the best essay overall is Dan Guillory's "Being Midwestern," a rhapsodic tribute to
                    the prairies of rural 
                        Illinois
                     and their transformative effect on a 
                        Louisiana
                     native. Guillory, like several other essayists here, manages to evoke the sublime
                    features of the plains and flatlands. His ability to draw links between different parts of the
                    country simultaneously elevates the "ordinary" of the Midwest and demotes the "exotic" of the other,
                    "sexier" (East and West) coasts. Of course, as a 
                        Louisiana
                     native, Guillory has recourse to his own "third" coast. Perhaps it is this dialectic
                    between the coastal and landlocked in general that makes his essay-and several others-so
                    enlightening. They remind us that Middle America has its own charms, charms which, viewed from some
                    "elsewhere," can be as evocative and rewarding as we sometimes imagine other places to be.
                TYRONE WILLIAMS is professor and chair of the English Department at Xavier University in 
                        Cincinnati
                    .
            
            
                
                    Wilderness Journey The Life of William Clark, By William E. Foley, (
                        Columbia
                    : University of 
                        Missouri
                     Press, 2004. Pp. xiv. 326. Illustrations, maps, notes, bibliography, index. $29.95)
                
                    William Clark and the Shaping of the West, By Landon Y. Jones, (
                        New York
                    : Hill and Wang. 2004, Pp. 394. Maps, illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $25.00.)
                The publication of James Holmberg's expertly edited volume, Dear Brother: Letters of
                        William Clark to Jonathan Clark (2002), shed new light on several lingering historical
                    events in which the 
                        Virginia
                    -born partner of Meriwether Lewis participated. But in what context should these
                    fifty-five letters be appreciated? Three years ago, there was no authoritative, fulllength scholarly
                    biography of William Clark (1777-1838). There is now.
                
                    Wilderness Journey, by William E. Foley, a retired professor of history at Central 
                        Missouri
                     State University, is the product of a forty-year flirtation with the career of William
                    Clark. Foley is the author or editor of six books on 
                        Missouri
                     history and in his research he frequently reviewed decisions  made by Brigadier General Clark in 
                        St. Louis
                    . For thirty-one years Clark was the highest ranking federal official in 
                        Missouri
                    , serving as U. S. Indian agent, territorial governor of 
                        Missouri
                    , and Superintendent of Indian Affairs. Foley's view of Clark is comprehensive, giving
                    almost equal weight to his leadership in the Corps of Discovery (110 pages) and his time as a
                    bureaucrat (111 pages.) A small section of less than half as many pages begins the book and
                    establishes Clark's formative years, his family's move to 
                        Kentucky
                    , and his military service-begun at age 19-during the Federalist presidencies of George 
                        Washington
                     and John Adams. Throughout his life, Clark was a meticulous record keeper. When it came
                    time for Foley to turn his attention to a biography of 
                        Missouri
                    's most distinguished pre-Civil War public servant, he knew from experience where to
                    look. The National Archives, the 
                        St. Louis
                     Circuit Court records, the 
                        Missouri
                     Historical Society, 
                        St. Louis
                     newspapers, and the repositories of the state historical societies of 
                        Kansas
                    , Indiana, and 
                        Wisconsin
                     all yielded valuable evidence.
                
                    William Clark and the Shaping of the West, by Landon Y. Jones, a retired editor
                    and writer for Time, Money, and People magazines, is the product
                    of three years of library research on the subject. Jones displays a special talent for fact-checking
                    and synthesis. He also knows how to find the human interest in his subject, and he tends to focus on
                    the most dramatic events. His prologue, for example, is a ten-page, spellbinding description of the
                    brutal toe-to-toe Indian warfare that took place on the 
                        Wabash
                     River in the fall of 1791 under Major General Arthur St. Clair. William Clark was not
                    present. No matter, because what Jones really wants to do is to weave in some good contemporary
                    quotes and to make the point that the 630 American soldiers killed on a single day in November 1791
                    totaled "three times as many Americans as the Sioux confederacy would later annihilate at Little Big
                    Horn" (p. 12). Chapter two relates the activities of William Clark's brother, George Rogers Clark,
                    from 1772 to 1789. Jones's secondary purpose in these early forays is to establish for the reader
                    the unyielding times in which the young William Clark grew to manhood. Perhaps because other books
                    have accurately recounted the Lewis and Clark expedition, Jones limits his coverage of that episode
                    to a mere thirty-two pages. In making such choices, Jones proves to be less a traditional historian
                    and more a fine teller of tales. Both books remind the reader that, contrary to current popular
                    sentiment, William Clark did not achieve the zenith of his life during the Lewis and Clark
                    expedition of 1803-1806. His prior experiences as a soldier trained Clark to lead and, yes, to kill
                    Indians, but also to observe and write in his journal. His post-expedition life began at the age of
                    thirty-six and encompassed a full range of personal,  financial,
                    and job-related problems. Clark personally signed thirtyseven Indian treaties for Western tribes,
                    more than anyone in American history, and under his supervision more than 81,000 Indians underwent
                    the painful process known as "removal." The full view of William Clark's life has some not-so-pretty
                    images, notably his aggression toward warlike Indians, his feelings for slavery, and his
                    indifference toward his "black waiter," York. On the other hand, aspects contained in the full story
                    of William Clark help explain his patient and paternal attitude toward the Indian woman, Sacagawea,
                    and her children.
                At the beginning of the twentyfirst century, historians had no reliable biography of William Clark on
                    their bookshelves. Today, scholars have access to Clark's letters and two biographies, and they can
                    anticipate yet a third monograph, by Jay H. Buckley, which focuses on Clark's Indian
                    superintendency. These are flush times in the fields of biography, William Clark, and the
                    Jefferson-Jackson era.
                ROBERT CARRIKER is professor of history at Gonzaga University and author of Ocian
                        in View! O! The Joy: Lewis and Clark in 
                            Washington
                         State (2005).
            
            
                
                    River of Enterprise The Commercial Origins of Regional Identity in the 
                            Ohio
                         Valley, 1790-1850, By Kim M. Gruenwald, (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 2002. Pp. xvi, 214. Maps, illustrations, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $39.95.)
                
                    An American Colony Regionalism and the Roots of Midwestern Culture, By Edward
                    Watts, (
                        Athens
                    : 
                        Ohio
                     University Press, 2002. Pp. xxv, 285. Map, notes, bibliography, index. $55.00.)
                The authors of these engaging studies offer contrasting perspectives on the social, economic, and
                    cultural development of the trans-Appalachian West in the nineteenth century. Kim Gruenwald,
                    professor of history at 
                        Kent
                     State University, narrates an upbeat history of how merchantsmost of them emigrants
                    from New 
                        England
                    -constructed a web of commercial connections that transformed the western country into a
                    thriving region of rural and urban communities, laying the foundation for what  would become the American Midwest. Edward Watts, professor of English
                    and American Studies at 
                        Michigan
                     State University, contributes something quite different: a study of the Old Northwest
                    as the first colonial establishment of the American federal state system. Gruenwald examines
                    economic relations as evidenced by account books, business records, and personal papers from the
                    period, while Watts takes a textual approach, reading and interpreting works by eastern and western
                    writers. Ultimately, however, they both are in pursuit of that elusive object of postmodern
                    scholarly desire-an analysis of identity, its formation and its meanings. Both authors set high
                    goals that neither fully attains, but they have produced stimulating histories that deserve to be
                    taken seriously.
                At the center of Gruenwald's study is the experience of merchant Dudley Woodbridge and his son Dudley
                    Woodbridge, Jr., who relocated from 
                        Connecticut
                     to the 
                        Ohio
                     Company's outpost at Marietta on the 
                        Ohio
                     River in the late 1780s and remained in the mercantile business throughout the period
                    under study. The Woodbridge firm kept and left voluminous records, which Gruenwald uses to
                    reconstruct their business connections in fascinating detail. The Woodbridges imported goods from 
                        Philadelphia and Pittsburgh
                    , distributing through a network that extended to both sides of the 
                        Ohio
                    , taking in exchange 
                        Ohio
                     wheat, 
                        Kentucky
                     tobacco, 
                        Tennessee
                     cotton, and 
                        Missouri
                     lead. Merchants such as the Woodbridges, she concludes, "established the strongest ties
                    that helped bind the region together as one economic unit" (p. 117).
                Though it is not clear why, Gruenwald is somewhat defensive about this conclusion. There have been a
                    number of very good recent histories on the role of capitalists in the development of the West. "The
                    central story of the nineteenth-century West," as William Cronon writes in his Nature's
                        Metropolis (1991), "is that of an expanding metropolitan economy creating ever more
                    elaborate and intimate linkages between city and country" (p. xv). Yet Gruenwald seems to think that
                    western history is still sentimentally entangled with Jeffersonian yeomen. Not that she considers
                    ordinary pioneers unimportant to the process of settlement. "The farmers built local community and
                    kin networks," she concedes. But "merchants tied western communities to each other and to the
                    outside world" (p. 156). In so doing they created the material conditions for an emergent western
                    regional identity that encompassed communities throughout the entire 
                        Ohio
                     Valley. By the 1810s residents of 
                        Ohio and Kentucky
                     were referring to the region as "the Western Country," and had established a regional
                    identity as "westerners."
                Gruenwald understands that identity often is constructed from the perception among groups of their
                    own oppression and exploitation by  outsiders. Settlers in the
                    transAppalachian region became "westerners" out of a conviction of their political and economic
                    domination by "easterners." Residents of the 
                        Ohio
                     Valley, she writes, "found their western identity in confronting eastern politicians
                    and bankers" (p. 111). But while she acknowledges the importance of conflict, it recedes quickly
                    from her narrative. Western complaints dissipated, she argues, in the face of economic development,
                    the result of the "transportation revolution" of steamboats, canals, and finally railroads. This new
                    economic infrastructure bound the states north of the 
                        Ohio
                     ever more firmly to the East, while those south of the river became part of the slave
                    and plantation economy of the South.
                Edward Watts takes a strikingly different position on the question of regional tension and its role
                    in the formation of regional identity. His project-which he began in his previous book, Writing and Postcolonialism in the Early Republic (1998)-seeks to apply postcolonial
                    theory to American historical sources, reading them for ways in which westerners resisted,
                    recognized, and reinterpreted their entanglement in empire. His mission, he writes, is "to
                    reconstitute the vernacular heterogeneity of the Old Northwest-in opposition to the nationalist
                    homogeneity ascribed to it in so much American cultural history" (p. xxii). Where Gruenwald finds
                    homogeneity, Watts locates difference. His reading of an assortment of western nineteenth-century
                    texts suggests the self-conscious framing of their narratives against a European model of empire.
                Watts is on strong ground with writers such as James Hall and Daniel Drake of 
                        Cincinnati
                    , who sought to counter what Hall characterized as the expansion of "the universal
                    Yankee nation." The people of the West should not mistake themselves for transplanted easterners,
                    Drake wrote, but should seek to foster the development of "a western heart" (p. 145). Watts also
                    offers suggestive readings of the memoirs of Sauk leader Black Hawk, the Ojibway minister William 
                        Warren
                    , the adopted captive John Tanner, as well as the Indian biographies of Benjamin Drake
                    (brother of Daniel Drake). The "counter-discourse of racial negotiation and mediation" (p. 60) in
                    these texts certainly suggests more cultural complexity than is assumed by Gruenwald, who does not
                    concern herself at all with what Patricia Limerick has termed the "legacy of conquest." But Watts
                    seeks to construct a historical "counter-discourse" of his own, arguing that westerners (a majority?
                    a sizeable minority? a small but important number?) opposed the imperial project of conquest and
                    native dispossession. This is a tendentious assertion, not supportable by historical facts. He
                    posits a connection between his humane writers and movements of violent opposition such as the
                    Whiskey Rebellion of the 1790s. Yet those rebels included many of the  very same men who perpetrated genocidal violence against the Delawares
                    at the Christian community of Guttenhatten. While there was regional opposition to eastern
                    domination, there was very little western opposition to expansion and Indian Removal.
                Using postcolonial methods to read the texts of western outsiders is a good thing. Reexamining the
                    role of merchants in the development of the western country is a good thing.
                Both these historians, however, tend to valorize their subjects, and that is not good. These fine
                    studies are nicely read together, as counters to each other.
                JOHN MACK FARAGHER is professor of history at Yale University. His latest book is A
                        Great and Noble Scheme: The Tragic Story of the Expulsion of the French Acadians from their
                        American Homeland (2005).
            
            
                
                    
                        
                            Kentucky
                        's Last Cavalier General William Preston, 1816-1887, By Peter J. Sehlinger, (
                        Lexington
                    : 
                        Kentucky
                     Historical Society and University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 2004. Pp. xxvii, 309. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. $33.95.)
                The lives of many Southern generals could be easily summarized in one word: privilege. Brigadier
                    General William Preston was no exception. His family tree reads like a "who's who" of wealthy, 
                        Kentucky
                     pioneers, with deep roots in 
                        Virginia
                    's first families. Preston's marriage into the Wickliffe family only furthered his many
                    connections to land, money, honor, privilege, and slavery. And like many of his contemporaries,
                    Preston struggled with all of the complications that privilege included.
                Raised as the only surviving son in a single-parent home following the death of his father in 1821,
                    Preston was instilled (and perhaps overburdened) with family history and the responsibilities of his
                    class by his mother and five older sisters. Education at Yale and 
                        Harvard
                     added to his sense of place among the South's landed aristocracy, and although admitted
                    to the bar in 1839, Preston cared little for the life of an attorney, favoring the canon of
                    classical Greek and Latin literature he had studied at 
                        Harvard
                    .
                Like many of his contemporaries, Preston moved easily into the sphere of social military service and
                    politics. As a Whig, he espoused the party platform, but in a revealing letter to his
                    brother-in-law, Albert Sidney Johnston, he wrote, "in this life I  never intend if I have an opportunity, to let an unvalued adherence to my own country interfere
                    with my prosperity in another" (p. 30). Preston served with the 
                        Louisville
                     Guards, and, during the Mexican War, with the 4th 
                        Kentucky
                     Infantry, which arrived at the front after fighting had ceased. Nevertheless, Preston
                    used his war service to his benefit and moved quickly into politics, serving first in the state
                    legislature, then (in 1852) in the U.S. Congress, where he served capably for three years. From 1858
                    until 1861, Preston served as the U.S. envoy to 
                        Spain
                    , but sectional differences over the issue of purchasing 
                        Cuba
                     essentially left him with little to do.
                Following Lincoln's election, Preston returned to 
                        Kentucky
                     and offered his services to the Confederacy, despite his strong beliefs, expressed just
                    a year earlier, that the South could avoid disunion and war through political maneuvering. He wrote
                    during the war that he "entered the service of the Confederacy to which I was allied by my birth, my
                    education, and my convictions of justice" (p. 42). Preston served ably as colonel of the 1st 
                        Kentucky
                     Infantry, CS, and later as a brigadier general commanding both a brigade and a division
                    in the Army of the 
                        Tennessee
                    , where he fought at 
                        Shiloh
                    , Murfreesboro, and Chickamauga. Open and hostile criticism of Braxton Braggwhom he
                    called "tyrannical… impetuous… and narrow minded" (p. 155)-led to Preston's reassignment and
                    eventual departure from the army for the Confederate foreign service as minister to Mexico.
                    Following a brief postwar exile in 
                        Canada
                    , Preston returned to 
                        Kentucky
                    , where he attempted to live a quiet life. Mounting financial debts, marital
                    difficulties, and other family problems plagued the remaining twenty-two years of his life.
                Sehlinger's biography-the first published work on Preston-is thoughtful and thoroughly researched.
                    What the narrative lacks is studied, critical insight into Preston's personal convictions.
                    Nevertheless it is a balanced and fair biography that does not set the subject upon a pedestal, nor
                    set him aflame.
                ROGER C. ADAMS is associate professor and rare books librarian at Hale Library, 
                        Kansas
                     State University. He is a past president of the Perryville Civil War Round Table and a
                    consultant to the Perryville Battlefield State Historic Site.
            
            
            
                
                    The Civil War Letters of Colonel Charles F.Johnson, Invalid Corps, Edited with an
                    introduction by Fred Pelka, (Amherst: University of 
                        Massachusetts
                     Press, 2004. Pp. xi, 339. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. Clothbound,
                    $80.00; paperbound, $29.95.)
                The service of the Invalid Corps, later called the Veterans Reserve Corps (VRC), in the 
                        United States
                     Army in the Civil War has received little attention from scholars. Editor Fred Pelka,
                    who identifies himself as a "disability rights activist," has endeavored to rectify this omission by
                    preparing an edition of interesting letters by a prominent officer in the Corps, Colonel Charles F.
                    Johnson. An engraver and 
                        Philadelphia
                     "Chestnut Street clerk" before the rebellion, Johnson volunteered initially as Lt.
                    Colonel of the 36th 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Volunteer Infantry Regiment (later renumbered the 81st) in the summer of 1861. His
                    Regiment first saw action in the Peninsular Campaign of the Army of the Potomac in the spring of
                    1862, where Johnson assumed the colonelcy of the regiment. In late June, Johnson received gunshot
                    wounds in both legs and the testicles. After only a few weeks of recuperation, he attempted to
                    return to his command, but his body broke down from his unhealed wounds, and he was discharged on a
                    surgeon's certificate of disability in November 1862.
                In the spring of 1863, Johnson led an effort by 
                        Philadelphia
                     unionists to encourage the enlistment of disabled veteran soldiers willing and able to
                    serve in capacities removed from the battlefront. Johnson obtained a commission as Major in the
                    newly-formed Invalid Corps and was first posted to 
                        Columbus, Ohio
                    , in June 1863 where he served as an administrator in the Provost Marshal Bureau. He was
                    soon transferred to Provost Marshal headquarters at 
                        St. Louis
                    , where he undertook several important functions, from inspecting district offices
                    around the state to coordinating the spy operations of the department. In January 1864, Johnson was
                    promoted and transferred to 
                        Indianapolis
                     to command the 18th VRC Regiment at Burnside Barracks. His troops guarded prisoners at
                    Camp Morton and other military facilities, and rounded up deserters and draft dodgers. In May the
                    regiment was sent to northern 
                        Virginia
                     and compelled to engage in active campaigning. Johnson commanded a mixed force of VRC
                    troops and volunteer regiments and batteries, and repelled a rebel assault on Union positions in
                    June. When asked by a general if his invalids would withstand the rebel assault, Johnson replied,
                    "[M]y men are cripples, and they can't run" (p. 27). Collapsing in droves on even the shortest
                    march, Johnson's regiment was soon transferred to garrison duty in 
                        Washington
                    , D. C., where they remained for the rest of the war. Like many VRC officers, Johnson
                    remained in the army after the war, serving in 
                    
                        Kentucky
                     in the Freedman's Bureau. He died of chronic diarrhea in 1867.
                Notwithstanding his wounds and disability, Johnson did not dwell on his health in his letters. The
                    letters, all written to his wife in Camden, N. J., are sprightly, generally cheerful, and highly
                    descriptive of his experiences and the development of the VRC. His accounts of his western postings
                    are valuable, and his musings on the West's slow trains and fast morals are most entertaining.
                    Pelka's selection of letters (143 from the hundreds available) and his annotation of them are both
                    good, though several important persons and events mentioned in the letters are left unexplained. The
                    book's lack of maps to explain movements is most unfortunate. Notwithstanding these complaints,
                    historians of the VRC will benefit from an examination of these letters.
                STEPHEN E. TOWNE is assistant university archivist at Indiana University-Purdue University 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and author of several articles on Civil War subjects.
            
            
                
                    Challenge and Change in Appalachia The Story of Hindman Settlement School, By Jess
                    Stoddart, (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 2002. Pp. xii, 308. Illustrations, appendices, notes, bibliography, index. $32.00.)
                Institutional histories are difficult to write well; often, they commit the mistake of telling too
                    much of the institution's story while leaving its larger historical context vague and undeveloped.
                    Jess Stoddart partially avoids this mistake in her examination the Hindman Settlement School in
                    Knott County, 
                        Kentucky
                    . The book's first four chapters, covering the years from Hindman's founding in 1902 to
                    the beginning of the Great Depression, clearly contextualize the school within a discussion of
                    Progressive Era reform, especially educational reform. The final three chapters, which treat the
                    years from the Depression to the present, veer toward the narrow form of institutional history,
                    offering us a succession of individuals, budgeting issues, building programs, and successful and
                    unsuccessful initiatives.
                Stoddart's examination of Hindman Setdement School within the larger story of Progressive reform is a
                    well-written rebuttal to David Whisnant's 1983 treatment of the same subject in All
                        that is Native and Fine: The Politics of Culture in an American Region. Rather than being
                    Whisnant's "cultural interventionists" with misguided perceptions of mountain life, the founders of
                    Hindman Settlement  School, May Stone and Katherine Pettit,
                    were, Stoddart argues, southern variants of the educated female reformer perhaps best personified by
                    Jane Addams. Stone and Pettit, she maintains, both aimed to improve the lives of Knott County
                    residents, but like other Progressives of their era, also saw their work as dialogic. By living and
                    working together both the reformers and the local residents would realize that, as one Knott County
                    resident remarked, "mixin’ lams both parties" (p. 11). Stoddart does an excellent job of
                    demonstrating the links that Stone and Pettit formed to Progressives in 
                        Chicago
                     especially, and of presenting their commitment to education as a particularly modern
                    method for social improvement. She also skillfully shows the difficulties faced by these reformers
                    who labored not in bustling, northern, urban immigrant neighborhoods but in isolated, rural, poor,
                    and often misunderstood mountain enclaves. These chapters on the founding and establishment of the
                    school give students of the Progressive Era another example of both the flexibility of progressive
                    ideas and the wide formal and informal web of reformers that existed during the period.
                The final three chapters, however, would have benefited from more concerted effort to view Hindman
                    Settlement School with a larger lens. Although the story is certainly interesting-given school
                    administrators’ constant fighting for funds and their sometimes herculean efforts at fundraising-its
                    focus is much narrower. Perhaps Stoddart's most interesting missed opportunity in this section of
                    the story lies in her sustained discussion of how the preservation of Appalachian mountain
                    "heritage" has become a dominant focus of the institution. The author claims that this focus
                    represents a continuation of the founders’ original faith in the power of education. However, given
                    the contested meanings of "heritage" and its tendency to cloak efforts to promote local economic
                    development, it is possible that Hindman Settlement School's present purpose is dramatically
                    different from that of a century ago.
                In sum, this detailed institutional story is at its strongest when it treats the school's history in
                    the context of larger national trends in reform and education. It has much to offer students of
                    early twentieth-century American history, the history of the Progressive Era, and the history of the
                    South.
                ALEXANDER URBIEL is associate professor of history and acting director of teacher education,
                    Ramapo College, Mahwah, 
                        New Jersey
                    .
            
            
            
                
                    Jacksonian Antislavery and the Politics of Free Soil, 1824-1854, By Jonathan H.
                    Earle, (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 2004. Illustrations, maps, appendix, notes, bibliography, index. Clothbound,
                    $59.95; paperbound, $22.50.)
                In Jacksonian Antislavery, Jonathan Earle seeks to explain the presence and
                    influence of Democrats in the Republican coalition of the 1850s. With historians generally
                    portraying northern Democrats as tools of the southern slave power, Earle correctly contends that
                    these scholars mistakenly ignore that party's significant Free Soil wing. While acknowledging that
                    Jacksonian Democrats were minority partners in the Republican Party, he concludes that the party of
                    Lincoln "owed a substantial debt" to Free Soil Democrats (p. 16).
                By focusing on the political conversion of a number of the most important of these men, including
                    William Leggett, Thomas Morris, John Hale, and Marcus Morton, Earle draws a portrait of the type of
                    Democrat who embraced Free Soil. In contrast to the stereotype of Free Soilers as evangelical,
                    abolitionist Whigs, these Democrats focused more on an egalitarian ideology, which saw in the slave
                    power the same evil that Democrats had earlier challenged in their 1830s battle against the
                    aristocratic money power. Believing both that equality depended on access to land and that the
                    Constitution should be read as an antislavery document, they championed Free Soil-a concept that to
                    them meant both the availability of free farms and land free of slavery. In making these assertions,
                    Earle admits his debt to, and helps rehabilitate the reputation of, Arthur Schlesinger's The Age of Jackson (1945), which also stressed the importance of the producer
                    rights’ wing of the northern Democratic Party.
                While admitting that most of his subjects drew a distinction between their political antislavery and
                    Garrisonian abolitionism, Earle properly chastises present-minded scholars who have dismissed
                    Democratic Free Soilers merely as white supremacists. In the context of their time, they provided a
                    strong bulwark against the expansion of slavery, and some of them did indeed come to embrace racial
                    egalitarianism. In addition to examining state leaders, Earle also draws conclusions regarding the
                    counties that supported Free Soilers, especially 1848 presidential candidate Martin 
                        Van
                     Buren. Earle convincingly contends that the most enthusiastic Free Soil counties tended
                    to be long settled, isolated from the market revolution and the second great awakening (as he deftly
                    phrases it, "more passed-over than burned-over" [p. 55]), and solidly Democratic.
                Earle's book sheds valuable light on an important segment of the Republican coalition. Furthermore,
                    it persuasively explains why some of the  antebellum period's
                    most notable antislavery politicians-including Martin 
                        Van
                     Buren; Thomas Morris, who coined the term "slave power"; and David Wilmot, who proposed
                    to Congress that all land obtained from Mexico be free of slavery-possessed Democratic rather than
                    Whig lineages. In drawing attention to such forgotten Free Soilers, Earle has perhaps attributed too
                    much importance to these minority partners in the Republican Party. While this element was present
                    at the creation of the idea of Free Soil and played a key role in 
                        Van
                     Buren's ill-fated 1848 presidential bid, it remains less clear how important they were
                    in the mature Republican Party of the 1850s.
                Readers with an interest in Indiana history may be frustrated to discover that Earle has concentrated
                    on neither politicians nor counties from the Hoosier state. Nonetheless, these minor quibbles do not
                    diminish the importance of Earle's well-researched, well-written, and well-argued book; one which
                    should be read by anyone interested in antebellum politics, the antislavery movement, or the coming
                    of the Civil War.
                JOHN SACHER is chair of the social sciences department at 
                        Emporia
                     State University and author of A Perfect War oj Politics: Parties,
                        Politicians, and Democracy in 
                            Louisiana
                        , 1824-1861 (2003).
            
            
                
                    Rough Justice Lynching and American Society, 1874-1947, By Michael J. Pfeifer, (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 2004. Pp. x, 245. Maps, appendix, notes, bibliography, index. $35.00.)
                In a short and commendable book, Michael J. Pfeifer examines how Americans defined, clashed, and
                    compromised over the nature of criminal justice from the end of Reconstruction to the middle of the
                    twentieth century. Relying mainly on newspaper accounts and coroners’ inquests and using the
                    comparative perspective provided by seven quite disparate states (
                        Iowa, Wisconsin
                    , Wyoming, 
                        Washington, California, Louisiana
                    , and 
                        New York
                    ), he argues for a historical connection between lynching and the death penalty.
                Revolutionary-era ideals that allowed violence against enemies, growing alongside faith in popular
                    sovereignty, sustained the idea of lynching as a form of justice. Pfeifer offers strong evidence to
                    argue that mobs-or "rough justice" advocates-were not compensating for an "absence of law," but
                    rather confronting a legal system they considered slow, impersonal, and inefficient.  American lynchers acted against due process, writes Pfeifer, as much as
                    against those who challenged white supremacy, transgressed moral codes, or violated interests of
                    class.
                As time passed, capitalism transformed social relations and helped shape the law in a nation in flux.
                    At a time when immigration and westward expansion created new communities, Pfeifer identifies a
                    shift to the side of due process. However, the middle-class proponents of formal criminal justice
                    who believed lynching to be detrimental to law and order could not completely uproot "rough
                    justice." Through the development of "racialized" executions carried out inside four walls, they
                    established standards of respectability, prevented social chaos, and kept intact the "symbolic
                    functions of ritualistic lethal retribution" (p. 123). Though Americans living in the Jim Crow South
                    turned to the death penalty more slowly than did those living in the Northeast, Midwest, and West,
                    they did so with the assurance that the new style of rough justice would sustain, not wreck, the
                    foundations of white supremacy. In an impassioned epilogue, Pfeifer reminds readers that capital
                    punishment cannot be "separated from larger social forces such as racism" because it "carries the
                    profound legacy of lynching" (p. 153). This argument puts to shame federal judges who have
                    argued-and still do-that "the administration of capital punishment can be individualized" (p. 152).
                I do agree with Pfeifer that lynching is directly connected to the death penalty, but the
                    relationship is incomplete as long as "dilemmas of social order" (p. 7) are restricted to a list of
                    alleged crimes such as rape, murder, and theft. A broader definition of crime would not only prevent
                    the obliteration of the victim's historical experience and agency-especially in a region where
                    electoral politics provided numerous violation opportunities-it would also improve our understanding
                    of what it meant for white supremacists to fight transgressors without lynching. If a causal link
                    exists between the decline of lynching and the legal and political victories won by the African
                    American foot soldiers during the 1950s and 1960s, historians of "rough justice" should take part
                    more actively in debates on the origins of the civil rights movement. By bringing the reader closer
                    to the second Reconstruction, Pfeifer accomplishes much more in this splendid little book than he
                    intended.
                NELSON OUELLET is a professor in the department of history and geography at the Universite de
                    Moncton, 
                        Canada
                    . He has published articles on the northward migration of African Americans, is
                    completing a manuscript on the history of the civil rights movement, and has research in progress on
                    labor contracts signed in 
                        Tennessee
                     during Reconstruction.
            
            
            
                
                    Organizing America Wealth, Power, and the Origins of Corporate Capitalism, By
                    Charles Perrow, (
                        Princeton
                    , N. J.: 
                        Princeton
                     University Press, 2002. Pp. x, 259. Figures, table, appendix, notes, bibliography,
                    index. $37.50.)
                Are large-scale, bureaucratic institutions necessary mainstays of modern societies? Their
                    inevitability has been questioned in recent decades by various challengers of conventional
                    wisdom-among them, New Left critics of the so-called liberal corporate state, students of
                    technological innovation, productivity and mass production systems, and environmentalists-who point
                    to particular circumstances behind the rise of hierarchical organizations and to the past existence
                    and future potential of alternative structures. Charles Perrow, a leading organizational theorist,
                    now enters the discussion, looking specifically at the corporation (he promises a sequel that will
                    treat government and nonprofit institutions).
                Drawing heavily on the recent writings of labor and business historians, historical and economic
                    sociologists, political scientists, and legal scholars, Perrow reviews and rejects current
                    theoretical positions on the ascendancy and hegemony of the corporation: technological determinism,
                    economies of scale and scope or efficiency arguments (Alfred D. Chandler is a special target), the
                    role of state actors, and "neo-institutional" or cultural approaches. Unfamiliar readers may become
                    addled in the thicket of perspectives, but patience will be rewarded; Perrow furnishes a scorecard
                    of players in an appendix for assistance.
                Rebounding off other scholars, Perrow spins his own interpretation, which he dubs "organizational" or
                    "society of organizations." His argument, it should be noted, is distinct from the Weberian view of
                    modernity as an ineluctable march toward greater degrees of rationalization and organization.
                    Rather, he posits organizations, once set in place, as active agents in the process of perpetuating
                    themselves and shaping society to their own advantage. More specifically, he sees corporations in
                    the 
                        United States
                     contingently gaining power in the first half of the nineteenth century through judicial
                    decisions and statutes that afforded shareholders limited liability and provided corporate entities
                    with protective freedoms from government restriction (fears of a strong state also abetted their
                    emerging dominance in contrast to developments in Europe). Once established, corporate leaders used
                    every means (including corrupt ones) to further their existence and fixity; as a larger segment of
                    the population became wage earners, and as a larger number of those earners found work within
                    seemingly impersonal bureaucracies, alternative  forms of
                    economic organization lost credence.
                Perrow engages in two historical exercises to make his "path dependent" case. First, he uses recent
                    scholarship on the American textile industry to draw the now familiar contrast between the
                    large-scale, corporately owned, and automated textile mills of 
                        Lowell, Massachusetts
                    , and the flexible, specialty proprietorships of 
                        Philadelphia
                    . The fortunes of the former rested on hierarchical organization and market control,
                    those of the latter on "networks" of expertise and activity. Because both modes of production proved
                    successful, this example serves Perrow in indicating alternatives to corporate dominance, but his
                    discussion does not address or substantiate his claim for organizational agency. That issue he
                    reserves for his second exercise: an analysis of American railroad corporations.
                For Perrow, the emergence of a national railroad system ruled by a handful of carriers was not
                    inevitable. State-government-run railroads succeeded before the Civil War; some carriers operated in
                    non-bureaucratic ways through contracting systems (Perrow relies here on the research of this
                    reviewer, it should be noted); and regional systems of cooperating rail lines could have been
                    developed. A few mammoth, hierarchical organizations achieved control of railroad transport, in his
                    estimation, through a weak state presence, by financial chicanery, through the bribing of public
                    officials, and by the relatively unrestricted capacities of finance capital to consolidate
                    holdings-might makes history.
                Perrow's deliberately provocative book rushes through many points and can be challenged. The author
                    elevates corporate agency, yet very few actors actually appear. Similarly Perrow insists that the
                    corporation be treated as an "independent variable," but its effect on social relations and culture
                    is missing. The role of impersonal market and demographic forces in the rise of big business is
                    ignored as well. Finally, Perrow's corporations are static entities, not shaped by internal tensions
                    and dynamics. Still, the book deserves a large readership; a great deal can be learned by watching
                    Perrow wrestle profoundly with both theory and history.
                WALTER LIGHT is professor of history at the University of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and co-author (with Thomas 
                        Dublin
                    ) of The Face of Decline: The 
                            Pennsylvania
                         Anthracite Region in the Twentieth Century (2005).
            
            
            
                
                    The New Warriors Native American Leaders since 1900, Edited by R. David Edmunds,
                    (Lincoln: University of 
                        Nebraska
                     Press, 2001. Pp. 346. Notes, illustrations, index. $35.00.)
                R. David Edmunds's American Indian Leaders: Studies in Diversity (1980) has long
                    been a staple in the field of nineteenth-century American Indian biography. Now, Edmunds has edited
                    a follow-up collection that focuses exclusively on twentieth-century figures. The New
                        Warriors illustrates both the continuing effectiveness of the biographical form and the
                    development of the field of twentieth-century American Indian history since the release of his
                    earlier collection.
                Not that long ago, American Indian history seemed to end at the dawn of the twentieth century, as the
                    battles fought by warriors like Sitting Bull against the U.S. Army drew to a close and most Indian
                    people were hemmed in on reservations. The "Indian problem" spoken of by government officials was
                    over and, apparently, so was Indian history. Edmunds's contributors remind readers that much Indian
                    history remained to be made into the twentieth century.
                The fourteen biographical sketches in The New Warriors represent a wide range of
                    American Indian individuals. In earlier generations, military leaders often played the most
                    prominent roles, but here we find a variety of roles played by women and men. Some figures lived and
                    worked primarily among their own tribespeople, while others operated in larger regional or national
                    circles. Charles Curtis, Zitkala-Sa, Robert Yellowtail, LaDonna Harris, Russell Means, Ada Deer,
                    Wilma Mankiller, and Ben Nighthorse 
                        Campbell
                     led and served their people in the political sphere. Howard Tommie and Phillip Martin
                    are shown as economic leaders, creatively trying to create prosperity from sometimes barren
                    reservation homelands. Walter Echo-Hawk is representative of recent "legal warriors" who have
                    protected Indians’ land, mineral, and water rights in the courts. In their writing and teaching,
                    D'Arcy McNickle and Janine Pease Pretty-on-Top served as cultural leaders working to strengthen
                    Indian identity amid changing circumstances. And the Dakota Episcopalian priest Vine Deloria, Sr.,
                    was a religious leader who tried to bring Dakota communities and the church together-with often
                    frustrating results.
                Even in as wide-ranging and diverse a collection as this, some themes emerge. Readers will be
                    especially struck by the many challenges that Indian people faced in the twentieth century and by
                    the way in which leaders emerged to meet them. Those readers who come to this collection with a
                    particular interest in biography will note that its broad "life and times" approach to the genre
                    helps to place these leaders in the context of  a range of
                    Indian policies, such as allotment at the turn of the century, the Indian Reorganization Act of the
                    1930s, and the attempt to terminate the special sovereign status of Indian tribes in the 1950s.
                But because the subjects in this collection are so interesting in their own right, readers may be
                    left wanting more. The authors view their subjects primarily as public figures with eventful outer
                    lives. Deloria, for example, is presented as a fascinating man of enormous energies, as demonstrated
                    both in his play on the baseball diamond and in his lobbying of unresponsive church officials. In
                    the midst of following Deloria's very busy and productive public life, the reader is told that he
                    also married a nonIndian woman he met at school in 
                        New York
                     State. She soon disappears, as Deloria moves on to work in another parish and lead
                    another organization. Deloria is one of several figures here who deserve full-length biographies.
                Only so much can be done in a short article and not every historical figure has left the type of
                    materials with which to reconstruct his or her inner life. Nevertheless, this collection gives the
                    reader a glimpse of what might be done in joining biography and American Indian history, while
                    teaching much about this history over the last one hundred years.
                JAMES B. LAGRAND is associate professor and chair of the Department of History at Messiah
                    College, Grantham, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    .
            
            
                
                    Sacred Song in America Religion, Music, and Public Culture, By Stephen A. Marini, (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 2003. Pp. xi, 395. Notes, music examples, indexes of titles and first lines and
                    of names and subjects. $34.95.)
                Utilizing description and interview, and borrowing interpretive methodologies from history,
                    musicology and religion and cultural theory, Stephen Marini investigates the multiple roles and
                    meanings of sacred song as a substantive component of religious culture. Marini, Elisabeth Luce
                    Moore Professor of Christian Studies at Wellesley College, explores these functions through "local
                    illustration" of eleven representative sacred song traditions from among the vast assortment found
                    in contemporary America. Five examples, comprising the five chapters of part one, date at least to
                    the seventeenth century: the identity-rich Native American song and its accompanying dance as shared
                    at the 
                        Denver
                     March Powwow, the  transforming Hispanic alabados used by Holy Week pilgrims at Chimayo, the sanctifying shape-note song
                    preserved in parts of the rural South (specifically the annual Sacred Harp "sing" in Blount County, 
                        Alabama
                    ) and also recontextualized by northern and southern singers, the improvisatory and
                    "signifying" African American song found in 
                        Chicago
                    's Apostolic Church of God, and the heritage-reconnecting revival of Jewish klezmer and
                    Sephardic song in theater and concert hall. Native American, Hispanic, and African American sacred
                    song, observes Marini, not only plays a significant role in ritual contexts, but also articulates in
                    complex ways the particular religious cultural traditions. Today's Sacred Harp and Jewish musics,
                    however, may operate at the level of a "secondary sacrality," in which the traditional religious
                    worldview is presented, but in a setting that may not expect a religious commitment.
                The six chapters of part two identify songs from more recent movements and contexts, exposing four
                    different forms and communities: the minimalist and nature-inspired New Age music of Wiccans and
                    neoPagans, the sectarian and mainstream (and thereby socially legitimizing) repertoire of the Mormon
                    Tabernacle Choir, the Catholic charismatic and iconic song of John Michael Talbot, and the
                    proclamatory and evangelistic gospel music offered by the Lewis and Isaacs singing families. In
                    addition, Marini identifies two Protestant denominational hymnals intended to reinforce (The Baptist Hymnal) and reorient (The New Century Hymnal) religious
                    belief, and examines the contributions of two "conservatory" composers, Daniel Pinkham and Neely
                    Bruce. Throughout the book, the author probes the issue of public performance outside the sphere of
                    the original community (e.g., what makes sacred music sacred?), thereby raising the significant and
                    timely question of the commercialization and commodification of sacred song.
                Marini's engagement with an array of materials and traditions gives legitimacy to his conclusion that
                    sacred song has a central place in American religious traditions. This wide-ranging approach has the
                    added benefit of possibly acquainting readers with previously unknown music traditions. But such an
                    asset is also a liability: specialists may note the author's unfamiliarity with critical literature,
                    which may have a bearing on some of his statements, though not on his overall conclusions.
                    Nevertheless, Sacred Song in America fills a significant gap in American
                    historical studies, and hopefully will inspire further interdisciplinary work.
                KAPEN B. WESTERFIED TUCKER is professor of worship at the 
                        Boston
                     University School of Theology and author of American Methodist
                    Worship (2001) and Worthy Anthems Raise: Hymnals in Protestant Faith and
                    Practice (forthcoming).
            
            
            
                
                    The Women of Country Music A Reader Edited by Charles K. Wolfe and James E.
                    Akenson (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 2003. Pp. ix, 229. Illustrations, map, tables, notes, works cited. $28.00.)
                As the editors of The Women of Country Music suggest, it is impossible to
                    understand the current popularity of country music without recognizing the essential roles that
                    women and gender have played in shaping the genre and its audiences. This is the first thematically
                    coherent volume in the annual series edited by the organizers of the International Country Music
                    Conference, and it gathers a wide range of current scholarship in country music studies, reflecting
                    disciplinary backgrounds from history, literature, musicology, and education alongside the
                    scholarship of aficionados.
                A number of the essays take a straightforward biographical approach that seeks primarily to restore
                    the history of women's participation in commercial country music, from its earliest days in
                    recording and vaudeville to the present. Charles K. Wolfe's investigation of the short career of
                    pioneer recording artist Roba Stanley, 
                        Wayne
                     Daniel's contribution on hillbilly vaudeville performer Polly Jenkins, Ellen Wright's
                    essay on the career of banjo player and Hee Haw cast member Roni Stoneman, and
                    Tracey E. W. Laird's portrait of 
                        Louisiana
                     singer Margaret Lewis all fall into this category. Laird's brief discussion of
                    Shreveport songwriter and record producer Mira Smith is particularly tantalizing, as the role of
                    women in the business and production arenas of country music has been sorely overlooked.
                Other articles investigate the impact of gender on the evolution of country music and on the
                    experiences of individual artists. Rebecca Thomas reminds us that the music industry's segregation
                    of genres and audiences by race during the 1920s reflected not just the rule of Jim Crow, but a
                    gendered ideology of racial purity as well. This racialized gender discourse constrained the
                    performance styles of male and female artists alike and profoundly shaped the genre's development.
                    Kristine McCusker makes a similar claim for the centrality of gender in understanding country's
                    history through her analysis of Rose Lee Maphis's career. Nostalgic (and largely fanciful) images of
                    traditional southern women in the 1930s, she argues, became vehicles for establishing country's
                    commercial success and its durable tropes of sincerity and authenticity. Musicologist Jocelyn Neal's
                    defense of Faith Hill as auteur rather than as pre-packaged pop sellout implicitly
                    engages the gender politics that characterize so many contemporary criticisms of 
                        Nashville
                    's commercialism.
                
                Those interested in midwestern history will find Michael Ann Williams's essay on John Lair
                    particularly useful. In the 1930s and 1940s, the barn dance was a tremendously popular radio idiom
                    whose roots lay in the Midwest as much as the South. As a staff member at WLS's National Barn Dance and originator of the Renfro Valley Barn Dance, Lair
                    was a pivotal figure in making the mythical rural hometown a marketable product during the
                    mid-century shift to urbanism. He also exhibited a particular talent for molding successful stage
                    personas for female country performers such as Lulu Belle and Lily May Ledford. Moving between 
                        Kentucky and Chicago
                    , Lair mobilized gender to appeal to the region's ruralto-urban migrants, but also
                    exercised patriarchal authority over his female artists, willingly exploited his cast, and insisted
                    on conformity to his creative vision.
                Essays on the women of country music in 
                        Texas, Canada
                    , and 
                        Australia
                    , and an article on teaching about women through country music at the secondary level,
                    round out the collection. The Women of Country Music, like many anthologies,
                    occasionally suffers from the eclecticism of the material it gathers, leaving the reader with a
                    wealth of fascinating material but few explicit points of synthesis. Nonetheless, the editors have
                    effectively presented the state of scholarship in the field. Thanks to the richness of the essays,
                    students of gender, culture, the South, and the Midwest are sure to find something in this volume
                    that resonates with their interests.
                DIANE PECKNOLD is a post-doctoral fellow at the University of 
                        Louisville
                    .
            
            
            
                REVIEW NOTICES
                
                    The Life of George Rogers Clark, 1752-1818 Triumphs and
                    Tragedies, Edited by Kenneth C. Carstens and Nancy Son Carstens, (
                        Westport
                    , Conn.: Praeger Publishers, 2004. Pp. xviii, 348. Notes, illustrations, tables,
                    bibliography, index. $104.95.)
                The editors of this eighteen-chapter "edited biography" have assembled a short article on Clark's
                    early life, twelve detailed chapters on his military career, four on his later life, and a final
                    piece focusing on the portraits of Clark. Contributions-only two of which have been previously
                    published-come from Thomas D. Clark, James J. Holmberg, and James Alexander Thorn, among others.
                    Anyone interested in newer scholarship on Clark's career will want to consult this volume.
                
                    Potawatomi Trail of Death 1838 Removal from Indiana to 
                            Kansas
                        
                    , Written and edited by Shirley Willard and Susan 
                        Campbell
                    , (
                        Rochester
                    , Ind.: 
                        Fulton
                     County Historical Society, 2003. Pp. xviii, 424. Illustrations, tables, map, appendix,
                    bibliography, index. $40.00. Inquire at fchs@rtcol.com.)
                This compilation makes available a variety of nineteenth- and twentiethcentury documents relating to
                    the forced removal of hundreds of Potawatomi Indians from their villages and lands in northern
                    Indiana and their subsequent march to new federal lands in 
                        Kansas
                    . The editors have brought together in one place the letters of Father Benjamin Petit,
                    which record the deprivations and deaths that occurred during the journey; the 1838 journal and
                    letters of Gen. John 
                        Tipton
                    , one of the leaders of the removal; a rare account of a woman who escaped the removal;
                    and accounts from modern tribal members who have recreated the journey and are now working to raise
                    historical awareness of the fate of their ancestors.
                
                
                    Amish Life Living Plainly and Serving God, By Darryl D. Jones, (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 2005. Pp. xxiv, 102. Foreword, illustrations. $29.95.)
                This book contains a brief introduction to Amish religion and culture and to the history of the Amish
                    in Indiana, with a focus on their three principal areas of settlement in the Allen/
                        Adams County
                     area, the 
                        Elkhart
                    /LaGrange County area, and 
                        Daviess
                     County. The remainder of the book consists of handsome color photographs of Amish
                    people, scenery, and animals, organized seasonally (spring to winter).
                
                    Indy Racing Before the 500 The Untold Story of the Brickyard, By
                    D. Bruce Scott Edited by Hetty Gray, (Batesville, Ind.: Indiana Reflections, 2005. Pp. xi, 262.
                    Illustrations, references, notes. $59.95. Available from www. indianareflections. com.)
                Scott and Gray present an in-depth history of the Indiana Motor Speedway in the years preceding the
                    first 
                        Indianapolis
                     500. Carl Fisher and Lem Trotter purchased the land and built the first track,
                    believing that racing American cars against European cars in the 
                        United States
                     would inspire American carmakers (especially those in 
                        Indianapolis
                    ) to improve their cars’ speed. In May of 1909, the Speedway held hot-air balloon races;
                    in August it hosted its first motorcycle and car races. The deaths of five men in those races
                    prompted Fisher to repave the track with brick. The 1910 racing season included more car races (the
                    winning speed of the September 5 race was 78.849 mph) as well as an aviation meet in which the
                    Wright brothers participated. In fall of that year, Fisher announced that a 500-mile race-the first 
                        Indianapolis
                     500-would be held on May 30,1911. Scott and Gray provide extensive analyses of each
                    race and include a number of photographs, stereoscopic slides, and other images of memorabilia from
                    the Indiana Motor Speedway archives, private collections, and historical societies.
                
                    Dillinger The Untold Story, By G. Russell Girardin and William J. Helmer. Expanded
                    edition prepared with the assistance of Rick Mattix, (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 2005. Pp. xxi, 377. Illustrations, appendixes, sources,
                    index. Paperbound, $19.95.)
                In 1935, G. Russell Girardin interviewed Dillinger's lawyer, Louis Piquett, and Piquett's private
                    investigator, Arthur O'Leary. The resulting biography of the legendary outlaw lay in manuscript form
                    until four years after Girardin's death, when collaborator William J. Helmer prepared it for
                    publication. This expanded version adds to the previous edition a 30-page "Dillinger Miscellany,"
                    which includes an account of Dillinger's  restored car (a 1933
                    Essex Terraplane 8), the relationship of Dillinger's gang with the Barker-Karpis gangs, and the
                    return to 
                        Porter County
                     of a Thompson machine gun that Dillinger stole on a jail breakout.
                
                    
                        
                            Columbus
                         Indiana in Vintage Postcards, By Tamara Stone Iorio, (
                        Chicago
                    : Arcadia Publishing, 2005. Pp. 128. Illustrations, bibliography. Paperbound, $19.99.)
                Readers already familiar with the Arcadia postcard history series on American cities and towns will
                    know what to expect from this volume: a brief historical introduction, followed by a topically
                    organized collection of thoughtfully captioned historical illustrations. The 
                        Columbus
                     book includes vintage photographic postcards of the city's main streets, public
                    buildings, residential areas, and recreational venues, as well as a concluding section on its
                    innovative architecture of the late twentieth century.
                
                    The 
                            Indianapolis
                         Literary Club Summarized Record 1976-2003, Compiled by Raymond E. Gnat, edited
                    by Lawrence S. Connor, (
                        Indianapolis
                    : privately printed, 2004. Pp. 201. Illustrations, notes & credits. $15.00.
                    Available from the Indiana Historical Society.)
                Seventh in an irregular series of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Literary club's published records, this volume commemorates the club's 125th
                    anniversary. The contents include a complete list of officers and members from the club's founding
                    to the present, brief biographies of deceased members, a record of essays read by club members from
                    1976-2003, a history of the club's founding, various reminiscences and vignettes from
                        different years, a history of the club's meeting places, and a description of its election
                    process.
                
                    Unexpected Indiana A Portfolio of Natural Landscapes By Ron Leonetti and
                    Christoper 
                        Jordan
                    . Introduction by Mary McConnell (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 2004. Pp. xxi, 143. Maps, photographs, technical details,
                    list of resources. $35.00.)
                Traversing the state of Indiana, Ron Leonetti and Christopher 
                        Jordan
                     have photographed the splendor of its parks and preserves in all four seasons and
                    organized them by location in this heavily illustrated book. The full-color photos range from
                    detailed close-ups to sweeping landscapes. The entire collection is introduced by Mary McConnell of
                    the Nature Conservancy. In a brief essay, she describes the geography of the areas that the
                    photographs depict-among them, some of the most unexpectedly beautiful places in the state.
                
                
                    The Emergence of the Moundhuilders The Archaeology oj Tribal Societies in Southeastern 
                            Ohio
                        
                    , Edited by Elliott M. Abrams and AnnCorinne Freter, (
                        Athens
                    : 
                        Ohio
                     University Press, Swallow Press, 2005. Figures, tables, references, index. Clothbound,
                    $55.00; paperbound, $26.95.)
                The articles assembled for this volume represent twenty years of anthropological research on the
                    Hocking River valley in southeastern 
                        Ohio
                    . The book covers the period 3000 BC-AD 1450, and includes articles on population
                    change, ritual centers, modeling of settlement patterns, tools, and foods grown, hunted, or
                    collected. Its broad theme is the development of tribal institutions over time, as the moundbuilders
                    developed from a nomadic hunting and gathering society to a culture of sedentary agriculturalists.
                
                    George Caleb Bingham 
                            Missouri
                        's Famed Painter and Forgotten Politician, By Paul C. Nagel, (
                        Columbia
                    : University of 
                        Missouri
                     Press, 2005. Pp. xviii, 161. Color plates, index. Paperbound, $19.95.)
                Bingham (1811-1879) is best known for his paintings of the landscapes and people of the American
                    frontierincluding such well-known images as Fur Traders Descending the 
                            Missouri
                        
                     (1845) and Stump Speaking (1850-1851). Yet Bingham was also a member of the 
                        Missouri
                     state legislature; he served, as well, as the state treasurer and adjutant general.
                    Nagel seeks to link these activities in a portrait of "the complete George Caleb Bingham: the
                    artist, the politician, and the person" (p. xv). He demonstrates the crossover between Bingham's two
                    worlds in such paintings as Martial Law, or Order No. 11 (1865-1868), a critique
                    of the federal response to mob violence in Jackson County (
                        Kansas
                     City).
                
                    Field Armies and Fortifications in the Civil War The Eastern Campaigns, 1861-1864,
                    By Earl J. Hess 
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 2005. Pp. xix, 428. Illustrations, maps, notes, bibliography, index. $45.00.)
                Historians of military engineering will derive particular benefit from the text and detailed diagrams
                    of this unusual contribution to the literature of Civil War history. The author has spent decades
                    researching the physical sites and historical records of hundreds of field fortifications "to see
                    how much and why fortifications played a role in the success or failure of Civil War field armies",
                    (p. xiii). His work shows that there are still new stories to be told about how the Civil War was
                    fought.
                
                
                    
                        
                            Ohio
                         Volunteer The Childhood and Civil War Memories of Captain John Calvin Hartzell,
                    OVI, Edited by Charles I. Switzer, (
                        Athens
                    : 
                        Ohio
                     University Press, 2005. Pp. xxix, 250. Photographs, maps, illustrations, notes, works
                    cited, index. $28.95.)
                Charles Switzer has organized the memoirs of John Hartzell into a book that narrates the life of an
                    individual and reveals much about the era through which he lived. Hartzell's memories, put down on
                    paper at the request of his family, span the years from the decade before the Civil War to the late
                    nineteenth century. The detail and interpretation that Hartzell put into the recollection process
                    make his personal remembrances important as local filters of national occurrences.
                
                    The Boy General The Life and Careers of Francis Channing Barlow, By Richard E
                    Welch, (
                        Kent, Ohio
                    : 
                        Kent
                     State University Press, 2003. Pp. 301. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $24.95.)
                Based heavily on primary-source materials, this book should prove useful to scholars of biographical
                    memoir and to historians of the Civil War era. It chronicles the experiences of Francis Channing
                    Barlow as an attorney, as a successful officer in the Army of the Potomac during the Civil War, and
                    as a prominent 
                        New York
                     politician after the war ended.
                
                    Sweet Charlie, Dike, Cazzie, and Bobby Joe High School Basketball in 
                            Illinois
                        
                    , By Taylor Bell, (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 2004. Pp. 248. Illustrations, sources, index. Clothbound, $40.00; paperbound,
                    $19.95.)
                As a newspaper reporter, Bell covered high school sports in 
                        Illinois
                     for thirty years, and compiled many of his past interviews about boys’ basketball in
                    this book. He includes here a series of chronologically arranged vignettes of players, teams, and
                    coaches from the 1940s through the 1990s. Bell focuses both on the memories of championships by
                    players and coaches themselves, and on the memories of communities who supported winning teams. As
                    Bell notes in his preface, racial issues pervade any discussion of high school sports in 
                        Illinois
                    , especially as segregated leagues began to integrate in the 1950s. Interviews with
                    former players and coaches reveal the discrimination that continued well after the formal structures
                    of segregated competition came to an end.
            
            
            
                LETTERS
                
                    
                        
                            
                                To the Editor,
                                I much enjoyed Jason Lantzer's piece in your June 2005 issue on IU's "Student Right"
                                    in the 1960s, as it brought back many fond memories of my undergraduate days in 
                                        Bloomington
                                    . Although on balance it was a fine piece of work, there were a few
                                    minor errors that I thought it might be useful to correct "for the record."
                                For example, on page 157 he writes that Tom "Huston found an ideological ally in
                                    Robert Turner." On the following page he adds that "Following the advice of
                                    conservative leaders like [William E] Buckley, Huston and Turner distanced
                                    themselves from the ultra-conservative John Birch Society." Since Tom Huston and I
                                    were both leaders of conservative student organizations and our years at IU
                                    overlapped between my matriculation in 1963 as a freshman and his graduation from
                                    law school three years later, it was a reasonable assumption that we were close
                                    friends and allies-but I don't think in the entire time I spent 15 minutes talking
                                    with him and in reality we had very little interaction. (Don't misunderstand
                                    me-although 1 never got to know him well, I thought Huston was a very bright and
                                    able individual and admired him at the time.)
                                I pretty much hit the ground running when I arrived in 
                                        Bloomington
                                    , and some of Huston's friends in Action Party noticed me and decided
                                    that I would be a good choice for freshman class president. Purely by chance, as I
                                    entered the convention hall (having been assured I would have the support of most of
                                    the organized factions present), I was approached by an individual I did not know
                                    (and whose name I have long since forgotten) and we walked into the room engaged in
                                    a casual conversation. Tom Huston apparently interpreted that as evidence we were
                                    friends, and he knew the other student was a supporter of Nelson Rockefeller (from
                                    the Liberal wing of the Republican Party), so Huston quickly arranged for his
                                    supporters (most of the convention) to shift to another candidate (who, ironically,
                                    quit the Young Republicans when Barry Goldwater-for whom I actively campaigned and
                                    later got to know-was nominated for president). 1 later offended what might be
                                    termed the "Huston wing" of IU conservatives when I refused to vote  against passage of a civil rights bill in Great Issues
                                    Model U.S. Senate, and even more so when I helped lead the campaign to keep the
                                    university from discriminating against the W. E. B. Du Bois Club by denying it
                                    office space in the Student Union. As a Libertarian, I had some fundamental
                                    differences with Huston's more traditionalist conservative views. I was much amused
                                    when I was told Huston had denounced me as being "soft on Communism" for defending
                                    the Du Bois Club (which I assumed at the time was a Communist group), whereas in
                                    reality my opposition to totalitarian Communism was every bit as strong as his own.
                                    But where Huston (like Buckley) wanted to censor them (allowing them to attract
                                    large crowds off campus to come hear what the university was censoring), I wanted to
                                    debate them and to show the student body why they were wrong. Shortly after we won
                                    the fight to have them accredited as a recognized student organization their
                                    governing board refused to authorize their president to debate me and soon
                                    thereafter they appeared to vanish from the IU political scene.
                                Another correction that may warrant mention has to do with the Students for an
                                    Orderly Society (SOS) versus Students for a Free Society (SFS). As a response to the
                                    growth of Students for a Democratic Society, a group of pro-John Birch Society
                                    students set up SOS. At the time, as Dr. Lantzer notes in his article, I was
                                    president of the IU Conservative League (IUCL). But the IUCL was associated with a
                                    non-profit national organization (then called the Intercollegiate Society of
                                    Individualists but later renamed the Intercollegiate Studies Institute-decades later
                                    I served on their Board) and thus eschewed any form of political activism. We
                                    brought speakers like 
                                        Milton
                                     Friedman and Benjamine Rogge to campus and distributed books and
                                    periodicals. But several Libertarians in the group felt our voice needed to be heard
                                    on partisan issues, so (independent of ISI) we formed the Students for a Free
                                    Society and I became its president. Thus, Dr. Lantzer erred in stating that I helped
                                    form the Conservative League's "activist arm, Students for an Orderly Society.
                                    "Indeed, we formed SFS somewhat in response to SOS, and secondly the only connection
                                    between the IUCL and SFS was some overlapping leadership. We set up SFS not as an
                                    "arm" of IUCL but rather as a separate entity that would permit us to take an active
                                    part in partisan debates without compromising ISI's strict rule against such
                                    involvement. And, in fairness, I was but one of several people involved in these
                                    groups. Other key players in both IUCL and SFS at the time included O. Paul Varnell
                                    (now a prominent 
                                        Chicago
                                     gay-rights activist), Robb Frank (who went on to become a judge in
                                    Tulsa and then a successful attorney in San Diego), and Patty O'Neil. Indeed, not
                                    only did I have nothing to do with SOS, but their attacks on me (for not being
                                    sufficiently "Conservative") led me to agree to run for a second term as IUCL
                                    president in response to their assertions that my Libertarian views would be  rejected in the 1966 election. At the end of
                                    that term I largely withdrew from IU political activity to focus my energies on the 
                                        North Vietnam
                                     War as national research director and Indiana state chairman of the
                                    Student Committee for Victory in 
                                        North Vietnam
                                    . Upon graduation I entered the Army and served two voluntary tours in 
                                        North Vietnam
                                    .
                                Finally, in footnote 20 of the article there is a reference to my working on a book
                                    on 
                                        North Vietnam
                                     while at IU that was "published two years after U.S. withdrawal" from
                                    the war. The cover of my Vietnamese Communism: Its Origins and
                                        Development appears as an illustration on page 158 of the article. In fact,
                                    these were entirely different projects-the book I was working on at IU was an
                                    expansion of my 450-page undergraduate honors thesis and was never published. Vietnamese Communism was written while I was a fellow at 
                                        Stanford
                                    's Hoover Institution on War, Revolution, and Peace after leaving the
                                    Army.
                                Despite these minor corrections, Lantzer's article was a fine piece of work. And it
                                    is certainly true that at the height of the student anti-war movement in the 1960s,
                                    IU had a considerable number of able students deeply committed to both sides of the
                                    issue.
                                
                                    PROF. ROBERT E. TURNER
                                    
                              Center for National Security Law
                              University of 
                                    Virginia
                                  School of Law
                           
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
                Jason Lantzer replies:
                        
                            
                                Since the publication of my article, I have been extremely gratified with the
                                    feedback I have received, including that of my interviewees, such as Prof. Robert
                                    Turner. For too long discussion of the 1960s has tended to focus on the Left,
                                    despite the fact that the Right was also a presence on college campuses and in the
                                    nation as a whole, with the result being a skewed representation of events and their
                                    impact. As Prof. Turner points out in his letter, that presence was also quite
                                    complex, with numerous groups that historians are only beginning to look at and with
                                    ideological variation that needs to be better appreciated. It is my contention that
                                    only when we consider the Left, Center, and Right in all their complexity,
                                    variation, and commonalities will we start to understand and appreciate the 1960s,
                                    and the impact of that time down to the present. In that respect, I trust "The Other
                                    Side of Campus" was a first chapter of a much richer and larger study in which I
                                    hope others will join.
                                
                                    JASON S. LANTZER
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 
                              
                           
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
            
            
            
                EDITORIAL STAFF OF THE INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, 1905-2005 As Listed on the Masthead
                
                    Bailey, Gary L., assistant editor (Dec. 1980-Sept. 1983)
                    Baker, Donald E., assistant editor (Dec. 1972-Dec. 1974)
                    Bakken, Dawn E., associate editor (Sept. 2003-), editorial assistant (Dec. 1987-June 2003)
                    Barnhart, John D., editor (Sept. 1941-Mar. 1955)
                    Bennett, Pamela J., assistant editor (Sept. 1968-Dec. 1972)
                    Berkowitz, Ellen B., assistant editor (Dec. 1987-Dec. 1989)
                    Berry, Chad, assistant editor (Dec. 1989-Dec. 1991)
                    Blackett, Richard, editor (Mar. 1994-Sept. 1996)
                    Blackman, Shane E., assistant editor (Dec. 1997-Dec. 1999)
                    Brown, Demarchus C, business manager (Mar. 1913)
                    Buley, R. Carlyle, editor (Mar.-Dec. 1927), business manager (Mar.-Dec. 1926, Mar. 1928-June
                        1931)
                    Carmony, Donald E, editor (June 1955-Dec. 1975)
                    Coleman, Christopher B., editor (Mar. 1908-Sept. 1911), acting editor (Mar.-June 1926,
                        Mar.-June 1928)
                    Cottman, George S., founder, editor (Mar. 1905-Dec. 1907, Dec. 1911-Mar. 1913)
                    Denson, Andrew, assistant editor (Dec. 1995-Dec. 1997)
                    Drucker, Donna, editorial assistant (Dec. 2004-June 2005)
                    Erekson, Keith, assistant editor (Dec. 2004-), editorial assistant (Sept. 2003-Sept. 2004)
                    Esarey Logan, editor (June 1913-Dec. 1925), acting editor (Sept.-Dec. 1926)
                    Gregory, Daniel, assistant editor (Dec. 2001-Sept. 2004)
                    Hartman, Marilyn A., assistant editor (Dec. 1974-Sept. 1977)
                    Heffner, Ruth C, assistant editor (Dec. 1956-June 1958)
                    Henry, William E., manager (Mar.-Dec. 1905)
                    Hyman, Max, circulation manager (Mar. 1916)
                    Krauskopf, Frances, associate editor (June 1955-Sept. 1956)
                    Lang, Elfrieda, assistant editor (Mar. 1949-Dec. 1953)
                    Lynch, William O., editor (Sept. 1928-June 1941)
                    
                    Madison, James H., editor (Dec. 1976-Dec. 1993)
                    Mennen, Kathleen E., editorial assistant (Dec. 1985)
                    Miller, Roger G., assistant editor (Sept. 1977-Sept. 1980)
                    Mooney, Loraine Binkley, assistant editor (Sept. 1962-Dec. 1965)
                    Murray, Janet E, editorial assistant (Sept. 1982-Sept. 1983), history intern (Mar.-June 1982)
                    Nolan, Kathleen, assistant editor (Mar. 1954-Mar. 1955)
                    O'Hara, Paul S., assistant editor (Dec. 1999-Dec. 2001)
                    Pierce, Richard B., II, assistant editor (Dec. 1991-Dec. 1993)
                    Rambeau, Elizabeth Decatur, assistant editor (Dec. 1993-Dec. 1995)
                    Robbins, Gayle Russell, editorial intern (Dec. 1984)
                    Rodgers, Thomas E., assistant editor (Sept. 1985-Dec. 1987), editorial intern (June 1985)
                    Rosswurm, Glenn J., II, editorial assistant (Sept. 1986-Mar. 1987)
                    Ruegamer, Lana, associate editor (Mar. 1999-Sept. 2003)
                    Sandweiss, Eric, editor (Dec. 2002-)
                    Sheehan, Bernard W, editor (Dec. 1996-Sept. 2002)
                    Schockley, Earnest Vivian, business editor (Sept.-Dec. 1913)
                    Schutt, Amy C., assistant editor (Dec. 1983-June 1985)
                    Simmons, David S., editorial assistant (Mar.-June 1986)
                    Stone, Gregory M., editorial intern (Dec. 1984-June 1984)
                    Sylvester, Lorna Lutes, acting editor (Sept. 1969, Sept. 1970, Sept. 1971, Sept. 1972, Dec.
                        1973, Mar.-Sept. 1976, Sept. 1982-Sept. 1983), associate editor (Sept. 1967 Dec. 1975, Dec.
                        1976-Mar. 1999), assistant editor (Dec. 1964-June 1967)
                    Tannenbaum, Karen, assistant editor (Sept. 1967-June 1968)
                    Thielking, Mary Lou, assistant editor (Sept. 1958-June 1962)
                    Tilger, Justine Tharp, assistant editor (Sept. 1962-Sept. 1964)
                    Viola, Herman J., assistant editor (Mar. 1966-June 1967)
                    Ward, Patricia J., editorial intern (Sept. 1984)
                    Yaudes, Cynthia Gwynne, editorial assistant (Sept. 2005-)
                
            
        
        
            
            
            
            
        
    
