
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 12, Issue 2, pages 95-192. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:12+issue:2+year:1916&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            The Socialist Party in Indiana Since 1896
            By ORA ELLEN COX, 
                        Logansport
                    , Indiana
            THE Socialist Party in Indiana is not something different and apart from the
                    general Socialist movement; on the other hand it is affiliated with and subordinated to the
                    Socialist Party in America. It also cleaves closely to the principles of International Socialism as
                    outlined by the national platforms and decisions of International Congresses. This State has been
                    one of the most regular in its adherence to the national organization. The Unity Convention
                    permitted the various States and Territories much latitude in organizing to suit the needs of the
                    various sections, but there is at present a tendency to bring all the State organizations under the
                    more direct control of the national offices. Indiana will have nothing to undo, as it started right.
            Indiana may justly claim some prestige in the Socialist Party. 
                        New Harmony
                    , Indiana, was the scene of the most important of the Owenite movements. While this
                    experiment did not have any direct connection with the present political party, it served to show
                    social unrest and sowed some seeds, the fruit of which was harvested by reformers in favor of the
                    emancipation of labor.1 Robert Owen was called "Our Dear Social
                    Father" and it is said by Owen's associates that Owen claimed to have used the
                    word "Socialism" at least ten years before it was adopted by any other writer. If
                    he did not actually use the word it came into use as a substitute for Owenite.2
            
            
               
                  1
                        Socialism, by John Spargo (1906), 11.
               
                  2
                  International Socialist Review, Vol. VI, No. 1. July
                        (1905).
            
            
            The Socialist contribution to the picture gallery of party emblems in its present form is the work of
                    James Oneal, of 
                        Terre Haute
                    . The design represents two clasped hands around the globe. Encircling the picture is
                    the famous motto of Karl Marx, "Workers of the World Unite" and the words,
                    "Socialist Party." This badge is used by the national organization and by nearly
                    all of the States.
            The Socialist paper, The Appeal to Reason, was started in 
                        Greensburg
                    , Indiana, under the name of The Coming Nation.3
               
                    The place was selected because the editor desired his paper to circulate from the center of
                    population. It was in this paper that Eugene Debs first advocated "the establishment by
                    ballot of a commonwealth based upon co-operation."
            Mr. Debs, the party's candidate for president in four campaigns, was born in 
                        Terre Haute
                     and still lives in his native city. His brother Theodore was the first national
                    secretary of the Social Democratic party.
            The Unity Convention which launched the present Socialist party was held in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and John W. Kelly, of 
                        Marion
                    , has the honor of being the first chairman of the first convention of the Socialist
                    Party in America.4
            
            The movement was not entirely new, "The Socialist Labor party" had been organized
                    some twenty-five years before;5 and had been the main representative of the
                    Socialist movement during this period though related societies of an educational character were to
                    be found here and there. Its highly centralized form of organization and adherence to a dogmatic
                    censorship over the utterances of its members bred dissention in the early nineties. In 1896 the
                    Socialist Labor Party organized the Socialist Trades and Labor Alliance as an antagonist of the
                    trade union movement. This was an outcome of fruitless efforts to force the trade unions to accept
                    Socialist principles. These two organizations never proved' a success and the
                    dissatisfaction it caused in the ranks of the Socialist Labor Party resulted in a split in the party
                    in July, 1899. The larger part of the membership withdrew and organized with headquarters in 
                        New York City
                    . There were two Socialist Labor Parties with headquarters in the same city.
            On January 1, 1897, Mr. Eugene Debs issued a circular to the members of American Railway Union
                    entitled "Present Conditions 
                  
                     3
                            The Coming Nation. Nov. 23, 1895.
                  
                     4
                            Proceedings of the Unity Convention.
                  
                     5 Hunter, Socialists at Work, 358.
               
                     and Future Duties" and at the same date issued a card
                    to the Associated Press announcing his conversion to socialism, saying, "I am for Socialism
                    because I am for humanity."6 It was hoped that this stand taken by
                    their leader would bring the American Railway Union into the folds of Socialism and it did so,
                    practically.
            The Social Democracy of America was organized in 
                        Chicago
                     June 18, 1897. This party was the result of a union between members of the American
                    Railway Union numbering about 150,000, the Brotherhood of the Co-operative Commonwealth, and the
                    independent organizations of Socialists, most of whom had left the Socialist Labor Party. The
                    national executive board was composed of old American Railway Union officers, "The five
                    Woodstock prisoners."7 The organization was somewhat crude and
                    indefinite in its declarations of principles and in its working methods. It provided for a
                    colonization department with the view of capturing some western State and organizing a model
                    Socialist commonwealth as an example for the other States. Mr. Debs and others made tours of the
                    East and South in interest of the new party. The elections of 1898 show gains of this faction over
                    the Socialist Labor Party, electing two aldermen in 
                  Sheboygan, Wisconsin
               .
                    "In 
                        Richmond
                    , Indiana, their candidate for Mayor received 89 votes."8
            
            The first national convention of the Social Democracy met in 
                        Chicago
                     June 7, 1898. Eugene V. Debs presided. There were present 170 delegates representing 94
                    branches. The issue of political action versus colonization immediately developed. A split followed.
                    The political actionists were in the minority. The advocates of colonization established two small
                    colonies in 
                        Washington
                     State. They maintained a precarious existence for a few months when Social Democracy
                    disappeared. The thirty-seven political action delegates bolted the convention, reconvened at Hull
                    House and organized a political party, taking the name Social Democratic Party of America, with
                    headquarters in 
                        Chicago
                     with Theodore Debs, of 
                        Terre Haute
                    , as national secretary and treasurer.9 On March 6, 1900, this new
                    organization met in National Convention at 
                        Indianapolis
                     with 67 delegates representing 2,136 votes.10 Each was a 
                  
                     6 S. M. Reynolds, Debs; His Life, Writings and
                            Speeches, 20.
                  
                     7
                            Social Democracy, edited by Frederick Heath (1900), 58.
                  
                     8
                            Ibid. p. 50.
                  
                     9
                            History of Socialism in V. S., Morris Hillquit, 333.
                  
                     10 The delegates from Indiana were the following:;
                            John Ozanic and Hugh Miller, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ; Matthew Hollenbarger, 
                                Bvansville
                            ; William Blanks, 
                                Kokomo
                            ; John W. Kelly, 
                                Marion
                            ; Eugene Debs, Theodore Debs, James Oneal,
               
                     delegate at large and had as many votes in the convention as he
                    had signatures of members attached to his credentials. The responsibility of all actions was placed
                    upon the membership.
            The convention nominated Eugene V. Debs, of 
                        Terre Haute
                    , for president and Job Harriman, of 
                        California
                    , vice-president. The latter was the presidential candidate of the rebellious faction of
                    the Socialist Labor Party and had been nominated a few months before at 
                  Rochester, New
                    York
               . A committee on unity representing the 
                        Rochester
                     convention appeared at the 
                        Indianapolis
                     convention of the Social Democratic Party and after an earnest presentation of the need
                    of unity a committee was elected to confer with a like committee from 
                        New York
                    .
            The recommendations of the joint conference of three were submitted to both organizations for a
                    general vote of their members. They were rejected by a vote of 1,336 to 720, but this did not
                    prevent both factions from supporting the same presidential ticket. The Socialist Labor Party, in
                    anticipation of unity, adopted the same name as the 
                        Chicago
                     organization and so there were two Social Democratic parties. However, the result of
                    the presidential campaign brought a better understanding between members of both organizations, so
                    that a union convention met in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , June 29, 1901, and this date marks the beginning of the real Socialist party.
            Besides economic conditions there were other reasons why this was an opportune time for the birth of
                    a new party.11 The Populist Party was in the West, the Greenback in the Middle
                    West and Northwest, and Union Labor in the East. These organizations were casting a quarter of a
                    million votes without electing any of their candidates. The Populist Party in its convention in 
                        Omaha
                     in 1892 tried to catch the votes of the labor unions by its plank which said:
                    "Wealth belongs to him who creates it and every dollar taken from industry without its
                    equivalent is robbery. The interests of rural and civic laborers are the same; their enemies are
                        identical."12 The Populists fused with the Democrats in 1896. Debs
                    supported Bryan in this campaign, but there were many who would not affiliate with the old line
                    parties and there was a counter agitation probably due to the direct and indirect teaching of Karl
                        Marx.13 The union 
                  Judson Oneal, Herman Stuempfle, Clarence Kingery, John Kingery and Ed H. Bvinger, 
                                Terre Haute
                            .
                  
                     11
                            Why I Am a Socialist, Chas. E. Russel, 144.
                  
                     12
                            History of Socialism in U. 8., Morris Hillquit, 319.
                  
                     13
                            A Contribution to the Critique of Political Economy, by Karl Marx,
                        4.
               
                     resulted in the election of a few officers and it was thought
                    that if all factions would unite upon a program success would eventually crown their efforts.
            With this end in view the convention which met in the old Masonic Temple on West 
                        Washington
                     street, in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , was the largest and most enthusiastic one that had ever met for a similar purpose.
                    There were 124 delegates and each delegate had from one to four hundred names on his credentials.
            "Among the delegates there, were men who had been active in all phases of the socialist
                    movement, and alongside of them men of prominence who had recently come into the ranks. The
                    composition of the convention also served to demonstrate how much the character of the socialist
                    movement had changed during the last few years. No more than twenty per cent, were foreign
                        born."14 About 10,000 members drawn from all factions were
                    represented by these delegates, but out of it came a strong organization which has steadily
                    increased.
            The new party assumed the name, Socialist Party,15 except in States where a
                    different name had or may become a legal requirement.16 The Socialist Labor
                    Party did not fuse with the new one but still exists as a small remnant of the once vigorous
                    organization by that name, but its growth and influence does not keep pace with the Socialist.17
            
            
               
                  14
                        A History of Socialism in the 
                                United States
                            . Morris Hillquit, 338-9.
               
                  15
                        Proceedings of the Unity Convention, 577.
               
                  16
                        Report of the Socialist Party of the 
                                United States
                             of America to the International Socialist and Trades Union Congress,
                        Amsterdam, 1904.
               
                  17 The delegates to the unity convention from Indiana were as follows: M.
                        Greuling, John M. Ray, William Hamilton and Charles Cotton, 
                            Indianapolis
                        ; William Blenks, 
                            Kokomo
                        ; John Adams, 
                            Brazil
                        ; Martin Wefel, 
                            Ft. Wayne
                        ; John W. Kelly, 
                            Marion
                        ; James Oneal and Ed H. Evinger, 
                            Terre Haute
                        . By the constitution of the Unity Convention "The affairs of the Socialist
                        Party shall be administered by a National Committee, its officers and executive committee, the
                        party conventions, and the general vote of the party." The officers, committeemen and
                        delegates to conventions are all to be elected by referendum vote. "All party nominees
                        whether municipal state or national shall file with their respective nominating bodies a
                        resignation covering both their nomination and election which shall be operative whenever their
                        nominating bodies declare that said nominees have proven themselves untrue to their
                        trust." To become a member of the party it is necessary to be a resident of 
                            United States
                        , eighteen years of age and to sever connection with all other political parties and
                        to pay dues to the State committee who shall pay each month a sum equal to five cents to the
                        National Committee for every member in good standing in their respective territories.
                        "Each state or territory may organize in such way or manner and under such rules and
                        regulations as it may determine, but not in conflict with the power of this Constitution. A
                        State or territory shall be deemed organized and shall have a right to affiliate upon the
                        organization of not less than four branches, each branch to consist of not less than five
                        members. Each State
            
            
            The Unity Convention, in adopting a national constitution, made the unit of organization the State;
                    hence, locals must affiliate with the State. Dues stamps can be had only from the State office. The
                    general principle is State autonomy with its locals working in harmony with the National
                    organization.
            Indiana had been organized under the Social Democratic party which had recognized local branches in
                    cities and towns as units. Dues were paid directly to the National office and if the members paid
                    any dues to the State organization it was purely an individual matter.18 The
                    State had fared well in this voluntary payment for Hugo Miller, State Treasurer, was able to report
                    to the 
                        Indianapolis
                     convention, June 24, 1901, a surplus of $23.85 after paying all expenses
                    that had accrued since the organization of the State executive board on July 20, 1900.
            The committee on State organization for Indiana, which had been selected by the delegates to the
                    unity convention, went to work to reconstruct the Socialist branches, locals and independent
                    organizations. Bulletins were sent out requesting special meetings to pass upon the plans at once
                    and report to the secretary of the committee their vote upon the following: "Seat of Headquarters–
                        Terre Haute
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                    , nominated. Shall State officers be elected by referendum vote to serve until first
                        convention?"19
            
            The efforts of the committee met with such good success that ere the appointed time Indiana received
                    her charter.20
            
            The National Organization affiliates with the State through the National Committee.21 In the beginning the States and Territories 
                  and territory organized shall receive a charter. The States are to elect National
                            Committeeman by September 1, 1901."–Proceedings of the
                                Unity Convention, 641-642.
                  
                     18
                            Report of State Treasurer to the Delegates of the Indiana State Convention; The
                                Toiler, 
                                    Terre Haute
                                
                     , Sept. 20, 1901.
                  
                     19
                            The Toiler:
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            , Sept. 20, 1901.
                  
                     20 This charter reads as follows: "To the Comrades of the
                            Socialist Party in the State of Indiana, Greeting: Your application for affiliation with the
                            Socialist Party has been granted and your organization has been entered on the roll as the
                            State organization of Indiana. Provided, that your organization shall issue no platforms or
                            utterances in conflict with the National Platform and will not institute any rules or
                            regulations in conflict with the provisiotis of the National Constitutions. The National
                            Committee reserves the right to suspend or revoke this charter on account of violation of
                            the above provisions. "Dated at 
                        St.
                                Louis, Mo.
                     , this 16th
                            day of October, 1901.
                            (Signed) National Committee "E. Val. Putnam, Chairman,
                                "Leon Greenbaum, Secretary."
                      This charter is framed and
                            hangs in the office at State Headquarters.
                  
                     21 "The affairs of the Socialist Party shall be administered
                            by the National Committee, its sub-committees and officials, the National Convention and
                        the
               
                     when organized were allowed one member but as the party
                    increases in size additional members on basis of party strength are permitted.22
                    In 1904 an additional member for every thousand members or major fraction thereof, in good standing
                    in the party. In 1908 this was increased to two thousand and in 1912 to three thousand:
            For the purpose of determining the representation to which each State or Territory may be entitled,
                    the. executive secretary shall compute at the beginning of each calendar year the average
                    dues-paying membership of such State or Territory for the preceding year. Three years'
                    consecutive membership in the party shall be necessary to qualify for membership in the National
                    Committee.22
            By a recent ruling of the party the State secretaries of all organized States and Territories may act
                    as National Committeemen or such other persons as the members of the party in the State shall elect
                    by referendum vote. The committeemen may also be subject to recall by referendum. The National
                    Committee meets once a year but it may hold special sessions by a vote of two-thirds of its members.
                    "The members attending the meetings shall be paid from the national treasury their railroad
                    fares and $2.50 per day to cover expenses."
            The duties of the National Committee are carried on largely by correspondence. They have charge of
                    the following:–calling conventions, making reports, strengthening the organization by
                    propaganda, managing a lecture bureau, routing lectures in districts that are weak, formulating
                    rules and order of business of national convention, receiving reports from State organizations,
                    conducting national referendums, recommending amendments to the National Constitution, appropriating
                    the funds, and electing some national officers.
            The national committee keeps in close touch with the work of the State through the State party
                    offices. The constitution for the Socialist party in Indiana provides that:
            The management of the Socialist party of Indiana shall be administered by its officers, an executive
                    committee, a State committee, locals and branches, party conventions, and general vote of the
                    membership. The officers and committees of this organization shall consist of a Chairman, State
                    Secretary-Treasurer, Woman Correspondent, 'Executive Committee of five members, and a
                    proper quota of National Committeemen-23
            
            
               general vote of the party." Act III, Sec. 1, Constitution of the
                            Socialist Party. 1914.
               
                  22
                        Constitution of the Socialist Party, 1904. Art. IV, Sec. 1, and later
                        amendments.
               
                  23
                        National Constitution of Socialist Party 1912, Art. V, Sec. 1-12.
            
            
            The party officers and committees up to the adoption of the new constitution April 10, 1914, had been
                    named by the party in State convention and then submitted to the locals for a referendum vote. It
                    was necessary to name at least two persons for each office so there might be a choice, but by the
                    present system the State secretary-treasurer sends out a call on the first Monday in October to the
                    locals for nominations giving a limited time for nominations and acceptances:
            Then within ten days ballots shall be prepared and sent out for the referendum; thirty days to be
                    allowed for the vote; should there be no majority vote for any candidate on the first ballot, then
                    within ten days all names but the two highest shall be dropped; when more than two candidates remain
                    and only one to be elected, and all but three dropped when two are to be elected, and so on allowing
                    of one candidate in excess of the actual number to be elected before a second and final ballot is to
                    be taken. Thirty days shall be allowed for the second ballot.
            The duties of the State party officers are definitely outlined:
            The Chairman shall attend to all political transactions involving the signing of documents, as may be
                    prescribed by State law. He shall attend to the political affairs of the party and supply such
                    information regarding the election laws as may be required by virtue of his office. He shall be a
                    member of the Executive Committee, and he shall have been a member of the party for two consecutive
                    preceding elections.24
            The real business of the party is transacted by the secretary-treasurer. In the beginning of the
                    party the duties of this hyphenated officer were performed by two different members, each serving as
                    a labor of love, but the work was too much for a man to do and carry on his own business. In 1904:
            It was decided that the duties of secretary shall be performed by a regularly employed and paid
                    official who shall devote his entire time to the work and shall receive as compensation a minimum
                    salary of fifty dollars a month or a maximum of eighty at the discretion of the state executive
                        board.25
            
            The salary question was later placed in the hands of the State Convention. It has been gradually
                    increased from fifty dollars to sixty in 1911, sixty-five in 1912 and seventy-five since 1912. The
                    office rent and supplies are paid for by the party and the fixtures are owned by the party.
            The State Secretary-Treasurer shall have charge of all affairs of the 
                  
                     24
                            Constitution of the Socialist Party of Indiana. Art. IV, Sec. 1.
                  
                     25
                            Constitution of the Socialist Party of Indiana. 1904. Art. IV, Sec.
                        3.
               
                     state office subject to the direction of the Executive
                    Committee, conduct the correspondence of the state office, sign and issue charters, sell and
                    distribute Socialist literature, report to the National Secretary as provided in the National
                    Constitution, report monthly to the locals an itemized account of the receipts and expenditures and
                    general work of the previous month; annually render to the State Convention a full account
                    financially and otherwise of the year; keep a system of names of all the active Socialists of
                    Indiana; attend to the touring of all organizers (state and national) working in the state, and do
                    such other work as may be imposed by the Executive Committee, said amount to be not less than
                    $500.26
            The office of the secretary-treasurer is the headquarters for the State. It is open the year round
                    and is a regular beehive of activity. A fairly good-sized book store must be conducted besides
                    taking care of the party records. The room is the editorial one for publishing the Indiana Socialist Party Bulletin, copies of which are sent to the locals
                    for distribution among the members so that each one may keep in touch with every move that is made
                    and know how the money is used, for the members "pay the fiddler and call the
                    tunes."
            Closely connected with the work of the secretary-treasurer is that of the executive committee,
                    composed of the chairman and four other members:
            The state organization shall pay all necessary expenses of members of the Executive Committee and
                    allow them two dollars per day during time of actual service. They shall meet every four months or
                    oftener if necessary between meetings, the business of the party to be carried on by
                        correspondences?27
            
            This committee has concurrent powers in connection with the secretary-treasurer in transacting all
                    business that is not expressly delegated to the State secretary-treasurer or the vote of the party.
                    It has original jurisdiction in the care of all legal possessions of the party in Indiana, also in
                    the hearing and revoking of any charter of any subdivision which is accused of violating party
                    principles.
            Another very important party officer in the State organization is the Woman's State
                    Correspondent or secretary. The constitution of the party places this office
                    co-ordinate with State secretary but does not define the duties, while the constitutions of 1912 and
                    1913 define the duties but do not classify the position. Her duties are to keep in touch with women
                    correspondents elected by the locals and with the State secretary-treasurer, who is to co-operate
                    with her to bring 
                  
                     26
                            Constitution of Socialist Party of Indiana. 1904. Art. IV, Sec. 2.
                  
                     27
                     Constitution of Socialist Party of Indiana. 1914. Art.
                                IV, Sec. i and Sec. 5.
               
                     women into the Socialist party and make them intelligent
                    suffragist Socialists.
            The first woman correspondent, Rosa Lehnert, of 
                        Indianapolis
                     in her report to the State convention in 1912 made some unexpected recommendations for
                    the men to follow, one of which was:
            That the male membership of the State take particular note of the rapid growth of sentiment toward
                    granting women the rights of franchise –that when the time does arrive that they may be
                    counted on our side and not allow them to be used as a boomerang to defeat us after our years of
                    agitation in their behalf.28
            
            In another paragraph she speaks of the need of Socialism's being carried "to
                    every woman wage slave, or slave of a slave in our State. This can best be accomplished by the
                    husband and father, who are already Socialists staying at home with the children and in other ways
                    make it possible for the wife and mother to attend their meetings."
            Working with the woman's correspondent there are at present three hundred dues-paying
                    members standing on the same footing as the men with a voice and vote in the party management. They
                    distribute each week thousands of leaflets on Socialism and Woman's Suffrage, or any
                    literature especially for women, whether they be wage workers or wives of wage earners.
            Aside from party work they never let an opportunity go by to assist in any suffrage demonstration.
                    Before the meeting of the General Assembly in 1913 the State correspondent, Lilith Martin, of
                    Anderson, sent suffrage petitions to all locals in the State for their signatures and for those of
                    their friends. She secured three or four thousand signatures for equal suffrage and gathered the
                    women party leaders together in 
                        Indianapolis
                     prepared to assist the other organizations of the State that were for equal suffrage.
                    The Equal Franchise bill did not pass the committee but the Socialist women proved their willingness
                    to help the women of the State even if they did have different political views. This co-operation
                    has resulted in placing the Socialist women in a better standing with the other suffragists of the
                    State. Miss Florence Wattles, a prominent Socialist organizer, is a favorite speaker for them. The
                    special work for the women has not been as successful as it was claimed it would be. The women
                    generally prefer to do their work in the locals co-ordinate with the men.
            
               
                  28
                        Report of Women's State Correspondent to State Convention of the
                            Socialist Party of Indiana, 
                            Indianapolis
                        . Jan. 27, 28, 1912.
            
            
            The activities of the party are kept alive in season and out of season by the lowest unit of
                    organization, the local or branch. This is in reality a political club. "By subscribing to
                    the constitution and the platform of the Socialist party five or more persons may organize a local,
                    subject to the approval of the executive committee." This number has not been changed since
                    the beginning of the party organization.
            It was the intention of the party at first to make the county local the unit. In the constitution of
                    1902, little is said about organization except "Each county organization shall determine
                    its own initiation fees and dues, provided that it shall include ten cents per month for each member
                    to be paid to the State treasurer." In 1904 we again have the county emphasized:
            This organization shall be divided into county organizations to be known as Locals which may in turn
                    be subdivided into subordinate bodies known as branches, but all business with State offices shall
                    be transacted through county organizations. The first organization formed in any county shall be
                    granted jurisdiction in such county, but upon organization of all other branches a county
                    organization must be formed and each additional branch must be given proportional representation in
                    the management of county afrairs.29
            
            By the present method of organization the local quite as often centers in a town as the county,
                    provided–
            Only one Local may be organized in each town or city; but in townships where no town or city is
                    located each township may contain one Local. A branch shall be a division of a Local and shall
                    constitute a component part thereof and may only be organized and granted a charter by the Local
                    Central Committee.
            The local receives its charter from the State signed by the State chairman and State secretary; the
                    branch from the county or oldest local in the county and it is signed by the county chairman and the
                    county secretary. The conditions are the same as those required for a State charter except they go
                    somewhat further. The local adds State to its national obligations; and the branch, county, to State
                    and national. The committee granting the charter reserves the right to revoke it for violation of
                    its obligations.
            "The following officers, at least, shall be elected by each local: organizer, secretary,
                    financial secretary, literature agent, a chairman and a woman correspondent." The secretary
                    shall report to the 
                  
                     29
                            Constitution of Socialist Party in Indiana. 1904. Art. III, Sec. 1.
               
                     state secretary-treasurer the facts of the organization. He in
                    turn will be provided with blanks upon which monthly reports must be made and if the local fails to
                    make a "report for three months shall not be considered in good standing and shall not be
                    entitled to participate in any referendum or general business of the State organization. Locals or
                    members thereof shall not co-operate with or fuse in any manner with any other political
                    party."
            The right of membership is inherent in the local. The applicant must present the proper credentials
                    and, if there is any objection to his becoming a member, two-thirds majority is required for
                    admission. The local may expel:
            Any person proved guilty of violating the laws and principles of the organization must be suspended
                    or expelled. Accused shall have written charges preferred against them, signed by the accuser, and
                    furnished a written copy of the same thirty days before trial and allowed a fair and impartial
                    trial. Members must belong to a Local at least three months before casting a vote to expell or
                    retain a member.
            The right of any Local or branch to carry on its work of agitation, education and propaganda in such
                    manner and with such literature or speakers as may be deemed best by a majority of its members shall
                    not be questioned; but no local or branch shall employ speakers to advocate or distribute literature
                    advocating any connection with any capitalist or reform party or with any religious or industrial
                    organization.
            The slogan of the local is "Keep Busy." Some locals have in addition to their
                    regular monthly business meeting sessions of study and of pleasure. These meetings are usually held
                    on Sunday as that is the only time the working man cares to attend. The notices of meetings appear
                    in the party papers but seldom in a local one.30 It is the intention to make the
                    coming together a means of holding Socialists together and keep up their enthusiasm and to attract
                    outsiders so as to make converts of them.
            Methods of propaganda are discussed and campaigns are mapped out and followed up between meetings by
                    circulating The Appeal and as they say, "If that does not bring a man in,
                    then try The Rip Saw and it will fetch him." Some get lists of
                    subscribers to their party papers and follow up those routes by a canvass to sell literature. Books
                    are borrowed from public libraries and loaned to persons whose taste prefers a bound book to a
                    pamphlet.
            Some locals have regularly planned courses of study in Socialist 
                  
                     30 Socialist Party Meeting. Regular meeting of the 14th Ward, west,
                            every Sunday morning at 9:30, at the corner of 
                                Harvard
                             St. and Blair Ave., in I. O. O. F. Building. Charles Becker, Sec.
               
                     literature. Debating is a favorite intellectual exercise. They
                    will challenge any one to meet them. One of their favorite subjects for discussion is immediate
                    action versus political, if they can receive answers to their challenge from advocates of immediate
                    action. The locals are allowed much latitude and frequently become clannish. 
                        Madison county
                     local keeps things moving. They have a business meeting on Sunday afternoon at which
                    each branch makes a report and after this they sing. On Wednesday night they study law. On Thursday
                    night they have a euchre club.
            
               
                        Vigo County
                     Local has a band called the Unity 
                        Vigo County
                     Socialist Band. This band is composed of Socialists and plays only for Socialist and
                    labor meetings, parades, etc.
            Another feature of the local meetings is the appointment of committees to investigate the conditions
                    of the poor in their vicinity. They go from house to house and see if there are any cases of real
                    need. They are especially active in a strike because this is an opportune time to befriend people
                    who may eventually be won to party membership.
            Members distribute literature in envelopes designed for the purpose. Printed on the back are these
                    words:
            Please read the enclosed. You will find it both interesting and instructive. If after reading, you
                    wish to retain, the price is five cents; otherwise please return. The party leaving this will call
                    again in a few days.
            A study of Socialist methods of membership will show something distinctly original in American
                    politics.
            It is not necessary to be a voter in order to join the Socialist party. At first any one sixteen
                    years old, later changed to eighteen years, without question as to color, sex, creed, or previous
                    condition of political servitude unless this party service was not under civil service is eligible.
            In order to become a member of the party an applicant must subscribe to the following:
            I, the undersigned, recognizing the class struggle between the capitalist class and the working
                    class, and the necessity of the working class constituting itself into a political party distinct
                    from and opposed to all parties formed by the capitalist class, hereby declare that I have severed
                    my relations with all other parties, and I endorse the platform and constitution of the Socialist
                    Party including the principle of political action, and hereby apply for admission to said party.
            
            The original application is kept with the recording secretary of the local or branch with which the
                    application is made and a duplicate is sent to the State committee unless the county has a central
                    committee, in which case it goes through their hands to the State committee.
            A careful watch is kept lest some one is brought into the fold who is not orthodox. It is not numbers
                    of members but quality that is demanded. The following item shows what is liable to happen whenever
                    there are any irregularities:
            Member Expelled! Local 
                        Ft. Wayne
                     requests that announcement be made that Sam. L. Randolph of Central Branch has been
                    expelled by the party. The expelled member was active in support of Woodrow Wilson and the
                    Democratic Party.31
            
            Another original feature in political organization is the dues-paying system. Its financial support
                    as well as its political depends upon the working people and those in sympathy with them. They have
                    a voice and a vote in all the party affairs from the selection of the officers of the local to
                    national committeemen from their State. Through the referendum they have a voice in national affairs
                    of the party.
            When a member is admitted to the party membership he receives a red card which is now used as a cover
                    for the State constitution of the party. Up to 1913 the folder was separate but it was thought
                    better to make the change, "The purpose being that each applicant becoming a member of the
                    Socialist party will be sure of having a State constitution to familiarize himself with the working
                    order of the Socialist party."32
            
            The face of the folding card has blanks to fill in name, address, date of admission, State and local.
                    The back of it has blanks to fill for transfer record. Inside there is placed a scheme for receipts
                    for dues.
            There are spaces printed for three years of dues stamps and the other fourth of the space is left for
                    "Special Stamps which may be issued to members who have paid dues for three months and who
                    are out of work temporarily under any condition which is not within their control."33
            
            
               
                  31
                        Indiana Socialist Bulletin, November, 1912.
               
                  32
                        Minutes of the State Convention of the Socialist Party of Indiana, 
                            Marion
                        ; Feb. 8-9, 1913.
               
                  33
                        National Constitution of Socialists. 1912. Art. X, Sec. 7.
            
            
            The due stamps are small adhesive ones not quite so large as a postage stamp. The sale of these is
                    the only sure support of the party. The national office prints them and sends them to the State
                    secretary so that the office receives five cents for each member, excluding those whose affiliation
                    is kept up by exemption stamps. The member so elected is called a "red card"
                    Socialist to distinguish him from other factions. The secretary-treasurer sells these stamps to the
                    Locals or Branches for a "sum equal to fifteen cents for each due stamp. Ten per cent of
                    the dues received by the State office each month shall be set aside as mileage fund for delegates to
                    the State Convention" and the balance, after the national office receives its pay, goes to
                    support the State offices.
            The monthly dues are payable on the first day of each month. Any member in arrears for three months
                    will not be deemed in good standing, and shall not be entitled to vote on referendum or in
                    convention, provided that this shall not apply to regular members who are unable to pay.
            The local or branch sells the due stamps for twenty-five cents and ten cents of this sum maintains
                    the Local organization. Any one living in a locality where there is no Local may apply to the
                    secretary-treasurer for admission to membership and enclose one month's dues. The dues of
                    members-at-large are twenty-five cents per month. The secretary-treasurer keeps a careful record of
                    all receipts and expenditures of dues and makes an annual report to the Locals of the State and the
                    delegates to the State convention and each month in the Socialist Party Indiana
                        Bulletin sends to the locals reports of the receipts of the previous month and the same
                    month a year before so that each one may know if the funds are increasing.
            The following figures show the dues paid in Indiana for the past eleven years: 1903,
                    $419.06 (8 months); 1904, $732.35; 1905, $717.25; 1906,
                    $1,135.85; 1907, $851.13; 1908, $1,886.22; 1909,
                    $1,660.39; 1910, $2,262.00; 1911, $3,742.51; 1912,
                    $4,769.15; 1913, $3,414.80.
            It will be observed by the above table that campaign years produce better results than off years, yet
                    the figures show a healthful growth; and that while some members take a Rip Van Winkle sleep they
                    can be revived and depended upon. The cause suffers for a short time and then recovers.
            There are other causes than lack of interest that may cause a retrenching in funds.
            
            In the latter three months of the year of 1913 there has been quite a number of exempt stamps called
                    for, probably more of these stamps were used in the last three or four months in Indiana than all
                    times since the exemption stamps have been in use in the Party.34
            
            There is another purpose besides financing the party that the dues system serves. It keeps the party
                    organization in touch with its constituents and forbids some new advocate from stepping into places
                    of trust and taking the reins out of the hands of the "war horses."
            No member shall be nominated for civil office on the Socialist ticket, nor for office in the party
                    organization unless he has been a member of the party for two years preceding the nomination;
                    provided, that this shall not prevent nominations in political subdivisions where there has been no
                    organization for so long a period.
            The revenue of this organization shall be derived from the sale of dues, stamps, party supplies,
                    literature and from pledges and contributions from individuals and Locals.
            The publicity of campaign funds was fundamental with the Socialists and was done before there was a
                    law requiring it.
            The platform speaker of the Socialist party is not only a speaker to rally the party and get new
                    converts to it, but he is an organizer. If five members may be found where there is no organization
                    or if by reason of indifference the Local has lapsed when it once had existed, it is the duty to
                    form a local.
            The organizers receive a salary varying from two dollars to five per day and expenses. In the
                    beginning of the party propaganda the organizer spoke on the street because few halls would be open
                    on account of prejudice or lack of pay. Now if they speak on the street corner it is from choice.
                    The speakers take up collections and sell literature. The literature is sold to the State office
                    from the national at wholesale price. The organizers sell at retail price and the difference between
                    these two prices goes to the State organization.
            In 1912 there were thirteen speakers in the field with a total of 856 days out.35
                    The amount of literature sales was $864.00 While the speakers receive a regular salary
                    and expenses, the amount they turn over to the State frequently balances their expenses. Locals
                    sometimes secure speakers independently of the State committee 
                  
                     34 Annual Report of the State Secretary-Treasurer of Socialist Party
                            In Indiana, 1913.
                  
                     35 State Secretary-Treasurer's Report for 1912.
               
                     and pay a much larger sum for their services than those receive
                    who are routed by the State.
            There is an enormous amount of pamphlets given away, 21,700 free ones being sent to some weak Locals
                    in one month. Tons of free literature have been sent out from the State headquarters.
            The lyceum department of the national office sends speakers out at their own expense. They usually
                    spend ten or twelve days in a State and speak each day. Mr. W. A. Jacobs, of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , spoke on "Political Power" in Indiana last campaign.
            The function and name organizer dates back to the Social Democratic party. Messrs. Evinger,
                    Thorndyke, Oneal, Greuling and Thornton were in the field for the Social Democratic Party. Messrs.
                    J. W. Kelly and A. S. Edwards made tours of the state in October following the unity convention.
            The party is by no means nailed down on the question of organizers. Each convention sees some change
                    made. They have had county organizers, district and State, elected by Locals, in the case of the
                    county and district and State by the convention, but in reality any sanctioned speaker is an
                    organizer.
            The main speakers and organizers in Indiana at present are: 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Eugene Debs, S. M. Reynolds, J. H. Hollingsworth, William Houston, James Oneal, Judson
                    Oneal, W. W. Risher; 
                        Indianapolis
                    , William Henry, Edward Henry, J. Zimmermann; Anderson, W. W. Farmer, Janet Fenimore
                    Korngold, Frederick Strickland; Marion, John W. Kelley, William McKown, S. S. Condo, O. B. Hall;
                    Valparaiso, W. E. Graham, Ira Tilton; 
                        Evansville
                    , Edward Miller; 
                        Kokomo
                    , Florence Wattles; Garrett, L. M. Nesmith; Mun-cie, Ross Brown; Montpelier, S. C.
                    Garrison; Peru, Robert Du-derstade.
            One of the most interesting ways that the party manifests itself is through its State convention. Up
                    to 1914 the party held a convention each year, usually in February, for the purpose of naming
                    candidates for party officers who serve one year and civil offices on election years but by a recent
                    decision, "A State Convention shall be held bi-annually in the month of May during the
                    years when civil officers are to be elected. Special conventions may be held at any time if decided
                    upon by a general vote of party membership."
            The exact time and the place of the convention is decided by the State committee. 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Terre Haute
                     have been favorite  convention cities yet it may go
                    to any town. One was held in 
                        Kokomo
                     and one in 
                        Marion
                    .
            The announcement for the call for the convention is sent by the State chairman to each Local about
                    sixty days before the time of meeting. The call for February 14, 1914, read as follows:
            
                    
                  
                     
                        COMBADES, GREETING:
                        The time is near when the comrades of Indiana must elect and send delegates to a
                                    State convention to start in the campaign of 1914. Capitalism is still here and
                                    there is nothing left for the Socialist party but continue its work till this
                                    capitalist system of government has been supplanted with an Industrial Democracy by
                                    the working class. Therefore, I, as State chairman of the
                                    Socialist party of Indiana, on this twenty-sixth day of December, 1913, send this
                                    call, that the party meet in convention in 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , February 14 and 15, 1914, beginning at 10 a. m. on the 14th to
                                    nominate for the various offices to be voted for at the November election 1914, and
                                    such other business as may properly come before the convention.
                        
                                    Yours for Industrial Freedom,
                                    MARION" WILEY State
                                            Chairman.36
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            The convention meets in some obscure place where a hall may be had for a small sum. The newspapers
                    give little or no publicity to the meeting. The city where it meets does not take on convention
                    aspect, and decorate with flags, bunting and pictures of favorite sons. There are no crowded hotels
                    with their all-night before caucuses and bosses dropping in now and then just for friendship sake.
            The convention hall and the delegates present just as much contrast as may be seen in the convention
                    city. The hall is not decorated; its doors are wide open to the public. The delegates are not
                    politicians with special interests who come to represent a constituency that have not awakened to
                    the fact that there is to be a convention until it is all over and all settled. Our forefathers were
                    not more serious in their conventions.
            The Locals are thoroughly alive from the time of the call for the convention; in fact their interest
                    is aroused three months before the meeting, for at this time they are called upon to nominate a
                    committee of five on the State constitution which must be elected in the manner provided for taking
                    referendum. Each Local is allowed to send one delegate and one additional one for each twenty-five
                    members. The members-at-large are represented in the same 
                  
                     36
                            Proceedings of the Indiana State Convention of Socialist Party.
               
                     proportion. The delegates receive mileage and the committee on
                    constitution receive in addition car fare and two dollars per day. Their time begins the day before
                    the convention and ends as soon as the constitution is adopted by the convention.
            The convention is called to order by the State chairman. The delegates name by ballot the temporary
                    chairman so that it is not safe for any man to come to the convention with a ready prepared speech
                    in his pocket, for no one can foresee who will receive the honor. His presence is not heralded by
                    the usual scream and shout. He does not rattle the dry bones of party leaders for several reasons,
                    His party is new and it is a party that exists upon principles and not upon leaders.
            Even the credentials committee is elected so that there is no possible chance for wire pulling. The
                    only permanent offices that hold through the convention, and these are not necessarily so, are the
                    secretary, two tellers, and a sergeant-at-arms, but even these must be named and elected at each
                    session by the delegates. The committees are elected in the same way as the officers. The most
                    important committees are as follows: credentials, rules and order, platform and resolutions,
                    grievances, auditing. The constitution committee is one of the important ones but it is now chosen
                    by referendum.
            A new chairman is elected for each session and no man need flatter himself that he is in such demand
                    that he may be chairman for more than one session. It is a matter of education for chairman and
                    delegate. They have made the rules so they ought to know them and if they should forget they have
                    copies of the State constitution in their hands. Time is of no consequence, to be right is
                    everything. The stake for which they play is not to be measured in dollars and cents in the way of
                    patronage but it must stand the scrutiny of the party members for all time to come.
            Each delegate who wants the floor rises and shouts, "Comrade Chairman!"
                    until some one is recognized by the chair then the one recognized must preface his remarks by
                    announcing his name and the name of his Local. He is allowed but five minutes in which to speak and
                    no delegate is permitted to speak twice upon the same subject until all have spoken unless the
                    convention grants him this privilege. Frequently there are a dozen on the floor shouting for a
                    hearing and will not be pacified until the chairman assures them that he will hear each one of them
                    if they stay there until midnight.  The State committee has a
                    voice but no vote in the convention. The constitution committee have a voice when the constitution
                    is discussed but they have no vote unless they are delegates.
            Instead of visits from detached missionaries who go around to tighten the wires there are calls from
                    the members of the various committees who are obliged to sit in another room but who pull themselves
                    away long enough to look in and see what is going on.
            There is little emotionalism, almost no cheering, but a grim, deep-set determination pervading the
                    atmosphere. When the time comes for nominating party and civil officers there is no lack of names
                    presented. Each delegate is bent on having some one from his Local named. As many as six persons
                    were named for some of the offices in 1914. The delegates to the State convention occupied seats in
                    front. 
                  Vigo, Marion
                and 
                        Madison
                     Locals outnumbered the rest. The rank and file sat back of the delegates. When a vote
                    was taken viva voce there was much consternation lest the persons without
                    authority to do so were voting. They were so democratic that they allowed themselves to be voted out
                    of the right to smoke in the convention hall. They are ever mindful of their mission in behalf of
                    their comrades.
            The Locals have a right to send recommendations that they want to have considered in the convention.
                    These are referred to the proper committees and are reported when the regular report is made. In
                    subject-matter the convention resembles the 
                        New England
                     town meeting. Every variety of subject is discussed from capital punishment down to
                    private matters such as an attack on the character of some member. There is now and then a fling at
                    the capitalist class and the capitalist laws but there lies under all a desire to better present
                    conditions and make their work constructive rather than destructive. Collections are taken for the
                    families of any organization known to be in want either from strikes or lack of work.8T AW sorts oi petitions ate sent to the Federal and State authorities. Their manner of
                    work is no less interesting than delegates.
            The personnel of the convention is not as might be expected, a gathering of working people. In the
                    convention of 1914 there might be seen the lawyer, the student, the society lady, the working man
                    and woman. The race variations were equally noticeable, white, 
                  
                     37The Collection Committee for 
                                Michigan
                             miners reported $22.75; State Convention
                            Proceedings, Feb. 14, 15, 1914.
               
                     black, and what is most unusual in convention, a Navaho Indian
                    with long hair and wearing a gorgeous red tie sat with the comrades from 
                        Valparaiso
                    . All seemed to discuss questions of State with equal ease and interest. There were a
                    few women delegates and while the party is fundamentally pledged to equal rights their years of
                    heredity in which men have dominated in political matters manifested itself quite frequently and the
                    women seemingly were forgotten.
            The convention sessions are long, with intermissions at lunch time when people go to some nearby
                    lunch room and hasten back. No one thinks of leaving the room but for a short time even when the
                    sessions run through the night. At least two full days are given to a convention, closing on Sunday.
            The final close of the convention is one rousing union of voices in singing the Marseillaise by
                    substituting "Ye Sons of Toil" for "Ye Sons of 
                        France
                    ."
            The State convention is followed up by the referendums on the civil and party officers and on the
                    constitution. The referendum for selecting nominees for State and party offices is arranged like the 
                        Massachusetts
                     ballot, all nominees are given in parallel columns with a square at the left side of
                    the name in which to check the preferred name.
            The referendum on the constitution gives the proposed constitution in full and leaves a space on each
                    side of each section. The space on the left hand side is for yes and the right for no.
            Enough referendums are sent to each local so that a copy may be in the hands of each member. The
                    local tabulates the votes and sends the report to the State headquarters. It sometimes happens that
                    there is no choice so another referendum is sent out. A limited time, usually about thirty days, is
                    set to close all referendums.
            The campaign methods are much the same as those used by any other political party. More organizers
                    are sent into the field than at other times. A preference is shown to districts that have nominated
                    full tickets. The national office sends out speakers to the places where they are most needed.
                    Rallies are held. The largest ones have been in 
                            Indianapolis
                        
               , 
                        Evansvijfe
                    , 
                        Terre Haute
                    , 
                        Anderson
                    , 
                        Elwood
                    , 
                        Ft. Wayne
                     and 
                        Richmond
                    . Eugene Debs draws enormous crowds wherever he speaks. He challenged Mr. W. H. Taft to
                    debate with him in 
                        Philadelphia
                     last campaign but the president declined, owing to the fact that he was taking no
                    speaking part in  the campaign.38 Mr.
                    Debs' work is over the 
                        United States
                     so that it is not many of the Indiana towns that have a chance to hear him. Collections
                    for the party are taken at their rallies instead of the usual method, barbecue and burgoo feasts.
            They follow the regular campaign style of putting in the windows the pictures of favorite candidates.
                    Pictures are worn on neckties, flaunted from pennants or they may be used on buttons. Party emblems
                    are used on buttons and pennants, also tie clips, and cuff buttons. The red flag badge may be the
                    favorite of some of the adherents. Probably no larger percentage of Socialists take part in these
                    demonstrations than in the old line parties.
            The real work of the party goes on all the time and few votes are gained by the red fire method. It
                    requires the educational one to win converts. When a Socialist is once enrolled he is not liable to
                    compromise his vote. The results of the elections show the abiding character of the voters: 
                  
                     88
                            Appeal to Reason, Oct. 5, 1912.
               
                    
                  TABLE OF SOCIALIST VOTES, 1896-1912.
                  (The vote in 1900 includes that of the Socialist Labor and the Social Democratic tickets.
                            The vote is for the head of the ticket.)
                  
                     
                     1896
                     1898
                     1900
                     1902
                     1904
                     1906
                     1908
                     1910
                     1912
                  
                  
                     Adams
                     –
                     1
                     –
                     1
                     9
                     5
                     13
                     24
                     30
                  
                  
                     Allen
                     20
                     99
                     170
                     954
                     470
                     396
                     494
                     694
                     1,512
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Bartholomew
                                
                            
                     2
                     1
                     16
                     142
                     98
                     84
                     59
                     130
                     196
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Benton
                                
                            
                     1
                     3
                     7
                     4
                     1
                     3
                     15
                     22
                     30
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Blackford
                                
                            
                     –
                     92
                     6
                     23
                     37
                     34
                     42
                     125
                     256
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Boone
                                
                            
                     1
                     3
                     10
                     4
                     19
                     14
                     11
                     29
                     90
                  
                  
                     Brown
                     –
                     –
                     1
                     –
                     7
                     5
                     5
                     9
                     12
                  
                  
                     Carroll
                     1
                     –
                     –
                     6
                     14
                     34
                     68
                     58
                     83
                  
                  
                     Cass
                     1
                     29
                     24
                     45
                     52
                     22
                     38
                     91
                     187
                  
                  
                     Clark
                     6
                     11
                     20
                     42
                     133
                     46
                     68
                     113
                     137
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Clay
                                
                            
                     8
                     69
                     182
                     308
                     432
                     172
                     499
                     463
                     697
                  
                  
                     Clinton
                     –
                     6
                     1
                     30
                     56
                     47
                     78
                     102
                     219
                  
                  
                     Crawford
                     –
                     —
                     –
                     –
                     6
                     16
                     82
                     80
                     128
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Daviess
                                
                            
                     –
                     34
                     17
                     95
                     148
                     99
                     204
                     193
                     327
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Dearborn
                                
                            
                     1
                     6
                     41
                     126
                     62
                     20
                     41
                     62
                     146
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Decatur
                                
                            
                     4
                     4
                     12
                     16
                     41
                     33
                     39
                     40
                     88
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    DeKalb
                                
                            
                     –
                     4
                     6
                     96
                     154
                     69
                     63
                     87
                     457
                  
                  
                     Delaware
                     17
                     163
                     149
                     58
                     362
                     107
                     316
                     824
                     1,199
                  
                  
                     Dubois
                     –
                     4
                     1
                     4
                     5
                     4
                     58
                     83
                     106
                  
                  
                     Elkhart
                     14
                     31
                     89
                     216
                     472
                     315
                     400
                     471
                     856
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Fayette
                                
                            
                     –
                     2
                     2
                     65
                     107
                     90
                     81
                     101
                     231
                  
                  
                     Floyd
                     7
                     16
                     12
                     66
                     235
                     158
                     226
                     241
                     341
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Fountain
                                
                            
                     –
                     15
                     6
                     15
                     14
                     35
                     45
                     72
                     140
                  
                  
                     Franklin
                     2
                     5
                     2
                     2
                     3
                     11
                     7
                     2
                     30
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Fulton
                                
                            
                     –
                     1
                     –
                     9
                     17
                     22
                     13
                     44
                     70
                  
                  
                     Gibson
                     1
                     5
                     5
                     33
                     91
                     46
                     86
                     125
                     295
                  
                  
                  
                     Grant
                     9
                     145
                     337
                     158
                     281
                     167
                     339
                     638
                     1,323
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Greene
                                
                            
                     —
                     7
                     86
                     180
                     377
                     377
                     930
                     812
                     1,203
                  
                  
                     Hamilton
                     1
                     4
                     10
                     10
                     16
                     27
                     24
                     27
                     90
                  
                  
                     Hancock 
                     –
                     9
                     3
                     1
                     7
                     13
                     22
                     93
                     133
                  
                  
                     Harrison
                     –
                     3
                     4
                     27
                     44
                     31
                     67
                     77
                     118
                  
                  
                     Hendricks
                     –
                     1
                     1
                     1
                     5
                     6
                     –
                     17
                     48
                  
                  
                     Henry
                     2
                     5
                     9
                     12
                     17
                     31
                     61
                     156
                     437
                  
                  
                     Howard
                     –
                     33
                     51
                     77
                     211
                     211
                     255
                     897
                     1,107
                  
                  
                     Huntington
                     2
                     –
                     50
                     105
                     207
                     198
                     241
                     221
                     252
                  
                  
                     Jackson
                     –
                     12
                     2
                     9
                     16
                     12
                     30
                     117
                     175
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Jasper
                                
                            
                     2
                     3
                     3
                     4
                     4
                     4
                     7
                     9
                     14
                  
                  
                     Jay
                     –
                     8
                     4
                     11
                     9
                     16
                     53
                     97
                     218
                  
                  
                     Jefferson
                     –
                     15
                     26
                     24
                     50
                     44
                     97
                     89
                     137
                  
                  
                     Jennings
                     –
                     2
                     1
                     -
                     5
                     8
                     21
                     34
                     81
                  
                  
                     Johnson
                     1
                     2
                     7
                     11
                     10
                     8
                     9
                     28
                     49
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Knox
                                
                            
                     2
                     5
                     4
                     37
                     200
                     120
                     375
                     470
                     892
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Kosciusko
                                
                            
                     –
                     –
                     7
                     2
                     16
                     13
                     54
                     94
                     210
                  
                  
                     La Grange
                     –
                     1
                     –
                     5
                     13
                     13
                     10
                     11
                     22
                  
                  
                     Lake
                     4
                     32
                     26
                     109
                     386
                     156
                     303
                     576
                     1,182
                  
                  
                     Laporte
                     4
                     10
                     42
                     57
                     89
                     87
                     103
                     170
                     397
                  
                  
                     Lawrence
                     –
                     1
                     6
                     5
                     58
                     74
                     119
                     366
                     398
                  
                  
                     Madison
                     3
                     102
                     185
                     328
                     882
                     692
                     894
                     1,789
                     1,947
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Marion
                                
                            
                     103
                     265
                     281
                     871
                     1,067
                     751
                     1,075
                     2,330
                     5,268
                  
                  
                     Marshall
                     2
                     3
                     2
                     14
                     32
                     30
                     55
                     51
                     164
                  
                  
                     Martin
                     1
                     2
                     –
                     –
                     9
                     2
                     11
                     7
                     22
                  
                  
                     Miami
                     1
                     8
                     22
                     52
                     157
                     112
                     187
                     261
                     422
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Monroe
                                
                            
                     –
                     –
                     3
                     1
                     6
                     12
                     14
                     24
                     84
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Montgomery
                                
                            
                     2
                     2
                     –
                     4
                     19
                     31
                     44
                     110
                     173
                  
                  
                     Morgan
                     –
                     4
                     2
                     –
                     37
                     28
                     44
                     78
                     185
                  
                  
                     Newton
                     1
                     2
                     –
                     –
                     8
                     6
                     8
                     10
                     26
                  
                  
                     Noble
                     –
                     –
                     –
                     23
                     15
                     18
                     29
                     47
                     106
                  
                  
                     Ohio
                     –
                     1
                     –
                     –
                     6
                     6
                     3
                     3
                     9
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Orange
                                
                            
                     –
                     2
                     –
                     2
                     19
                     18
                     44
                     55
                     53
                  
                  
                     Omen
                     –
                     –
                     7
                     21
                     35
                     33
                     51
                     45
                     161
                  
                  
                     Parke
                     3
                     16
                     82
                     64
                     115
                     68
                     204
                     167
                     346
                  
                  
                     Perry
                     1
                     –
                     2
                     9
                     23
                     22
                     37
                     27
                     34
                  
                  
                     Pike
                     –
                     1
                     3
                     25
                     51
                     36
                     131
                     138
                     298
                  
                  
                     Porter
                     –
                     5
                     4
                     11
                     70
                     45
                     59
                     114
                     120
                  
                  
                     Posey
                     2
                     5
                     9
                     36
                     57
                     42
                     69
                     63
                     132
                  
                  
                     Pulaski
                     2
                     5
                     1
                     6
                     10
                     12
                     14
                     43
                     135
                  
                  
                     Putnam
                     1
                     2
                     12
                     23
                     27
                     28
                     36
                     50
                     91
                  
                  
                     Randolph
                     1
                     5
                     2
                     21
                     34
                     62
                     87
                     126
                     272
                  
                  
                     Ripley
                     –
                     14
                     19
                     49
                     52
                     44
                     76
                     68
                     163
                  
                  
                     Rush
                     –
                     3
                     –
                     13
                     90
                     18
                     13
                     12
                     77
                  
                  
                     Scott
                     –
                     1
                     1
                     2
                     3
                     –
                     3
                     20
                     18
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Shelby
                                
                            
                     –
                     5
                     5
                     7
                     22
                     27
                     95
                     194
                     319
                  
                  
                     Spencer
                     1
                     1
                     5
                     10
                     26
                     14
                     18
                     18
                     151
                  
                  
                     Starke
                     1
                     1
                     3
                     56
                     87
                     30
                     39
                     31
                     54
                  
                  
                     Steuben
                     1
                     6
                     3
                     8
                     318
                     17
                     13
                     24
                     41
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    St. Joseph
                                
                            
                     2
                     36
                     45
                     107
                     12
                     236
                     705
                     958
                     1,286
                  
                  
                     Sullivan
                     –
                     8
                     21
                     51
                     200
                     99
                     398
                     419
                     1,045
                  
                  
                     Switzerland
                     –
                     –
                     2
                     3
                     11
                     12
                     14
                     16
                     75
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Tippecanoe
                                
                            
                     2
                     –
                     3
                     22
                     86
                     68
                     65
                     99
                     191
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Tipton
                                
                            
                     9
                     6
                     3
                     7
                     13
                     11
                     13
                     39
                     113
                  
                  
                     Union
                     –
                     4
                     73
                     –
                     3
                     14
                     18
                     18
                     38
                  
                  
                     Vanderburg
                     36
                     179
                     330
                     1,280
                     1,780
                     633
                     1,034
                     709
                     2,572
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Vermillion
                                
                            
                     –
                     –
                     40
                     68
                     141
                     225
                     407
                     302
                     550
                  
                  
                     Vigo
                     8
                     93
                     353
                     335
                     814
                     284
                     690
                     1,017
                     1,862
                  
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Wabash
                                
                            
                     1
                     11
                     8
                     35
                     207
                     97
                     87
                     178
                     308
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Warren
                                
                            
                     –
                     –
                     –
                     –
                     2
                     1
                     3
                     19
                     46
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Warrick
                                
                            
                     1
                     3
                     10
                     79
                     130
                     81
                     101
                     68
                     310
                  
                  
                     Washington
                     –
                     4
                     2
                     6
                     7
                     5
                     12
                     21
                     61
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Wayne
                                
                            
                     3
                     72
                     45
                     145
                     280
                     281
                     308
                     468
                     1,032
                  
                  
                     Wells
                     2
                     3
                     3
                     67
                     74
                     48
                     65
                     72
                     132
                  
                  
                     White
                     –
                     7
                     8
                     30
                     31
                     13
                     19
                     18
                     41
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Whitley
                                
                            
                     –
                     3
                     1
                     22
                     15
                     9
                     13
                     19
                     70
                  
                  
                     Totals
                     302
                     1,795
                     21,374
                     7,111
                     12,013
                     7,824
                     13,476
                     19,632
                     36,931
                  
               
            
            The party vote is quite regular.39 This is as the party wants it to be. The
                    strength of the party is put on its principles and they do not approve of one man trying to have
                    himself elected on account of his personal strength. The party vote is widely scattered throughout
                    the State. The year 1912 showed the greatest gains. All counties except 
                  Montgomery, Orange
                and
                    Perry gained. More Socialist votes were cast in eleven cities in 1902 than were cast in the entire
                    State in 1900.40 In 1900 and 1902 no votes were cast for either the Social
                    Democratic or Socialist Parties in the following counties: 
                        Warren
                    , 
                        Union
                    , 
                        Jennings
                    , 
                        Crawford
                    , 
                        Martin
                    , 
                        Newton
                     and 
                        Ohio
                    .
            A comparison of election returns shows that the party must be gaining by drawing from other political
                    parties. More votes were cast for Mr. Bryan in 1908 than were cast for Mr. Wilson and more votes
                    were cast for Mr. Taft than were cast in 1912 for Messrs. Taft and Roosevelt together.41
            
            In comparison with other States Indiana stood in the Socialist Party eighth in 1912, ninth in 1910,
                    thirteenth in 1896. Tho Socialist party in Indiana is not only gaining in votes but it is making
                    itself felt as a municipal force. In 1911:
            For the first time in the history of the Socialist Party of Indiana the general town elections found
                    a number of towns swept into the Socialist column in the November election. These are as follows:
                    Staunton, electing entire ticket including Clerk, Marshal and two Trustees; Shirley, electing entire
                    ticket including Clerk, Treasurer, Marshal and Trustee; Millersburg, entire ticket, including Clerk,
                    Marshal, Treasurer and Trustee; 
                        Shelburn
                    
                    
                  
                     39 VOTE IN 1912 
                        
                           S. M. Reynolds for governor
                           35,464
                        
                        
                           S. S. Condo, lieut.-governor
                           35,796
                        
                        
                           Reece Townsend, secretary of state
                           35,816
                        
                        
                           W. W. Farmer, treasurer
                           35,876
                        
                        
                           Ross D. Brown, presidential elector
                           36,931
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     40
                            The Toiler, 
                                Terre Haute
                            , July 11, 1902.
                  
                     41
                            World's Almanac election returns, 1909-1914.–1912,
                            Mr. Wilson, 281,890; 1908, Mr. Bryan, 338,262; 1912, Mr. Roosevelt, 162,007; Mr. Taft
                            151,267; 1908, Mr. Taft, 348,903.
               
                     electing Treasurer and two Trustees; Farmersburg, Marshal; 
                        Spencer
                    , Marshall; 
                        Normal City
                    , Trustee; 
                        Diamond
                    , Trustee.42
            
            The next year the party made further gains. At 
                        Marion
                     the comrades elected three councilmen and at 
                        Elwood
                     one. Bicknell elected every candidate but one. Fairview elected its complete ticket,
                    and the Socialist administration held over at 
                        Staunton
                     as there was no opposition to it. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News said the Socialists won and the Democrats and Progressives lost.
            At the present time Fairview and Staunton are the only towns in the State which have all their
                    officials of the Socialist party. 
                        Marion
                     has added another councilman. The party officials have given the most of their time and
                    energy to the questions of education, safety, and health. The last election brought gratifying
                    results, as it is thought that those who support the party are really in line with Socialist
                    principles. The party Bulletin sent out each month from the headquarters bears the
                    message "No Compromise, No Political Trading!" The statement issued by
                    Mr. Debs entitled "Danger Ahead" represents the views of the party in the
                        State.43 The party must win on its principles.
            The victories in the State are accompanied by its responsibilities.
            These victories indicate that the Socialists of Indiana are now approaching a period of
                    responsibility, a period when we will find ourselves carried into public office by a revolutionary
                    working class. It is all the more necessary, therefore, that our electoral campaigns shall be waged
                    on the clearest presentation of the issue between the working class and its exploiters, and that
                    extra precaution should be taken in nominating our candidates.44
            
            The party is gaining ground in converting the union men to party principles. Forty per cent, of the
                    union men of the State have endorsed the Socialist principles, according to the report of the State
                    secretary, William Henry.
            Now and then the party tries some Socialistic experiment with fairly good results. 
                        Wabash
                     has a coal yard owned and managed by Socialists. It has proved a success for buyers and
                    consumers from the first.
            One of the party achievements that does not show on the surface is that of providing literature and
                    reading rooms where laboring 
                  
                     42
                            Annual Report of State Sec.-Treas. of Socialist Party of Indiana, Jan. 1,
                            1911, to Dec. 31, 1911.
                  
                     43Walling, Socialism As It Is, p. 176.
                  
                     44
                            Annual Rep. of Sec.-Treas. of Soc. Party of Ind., 1911.
               
                     men may get together to read or to talk over their problems of
                    special interest. They are not so liable to come under the control of the political boss and adopt
                    plans which will bring him gain today, tomorrow or next day, but they are content to sit down and
                    discuss economic questions from an ethical standpoint.
            While it is too much to claim that the party prevents crime in its present state, the criminal class
                    do not care for the party. Mr. R. T. Ely says of the criminal, "He adheres to a party which
                    is able to help him at once. He desires what is called in American politics a pull."45 The chaplain of Indiana State Prison said, "In all my personal
                    contact with individual prisoners for eight years I do not think I have found ten who belonged to
                    the Socialist party." 46
            
            Ministers throughout the State in general, while not coming out and out for Socialism, recognize the
                    class struggle. College professors treat the subject seriously.
            Socialists are well united and grounded on the fundamental principles but they find enough difference
                    in methods of work to form controversies that appear to be a serious menace to the ultimate aim of
                    the party. Foremost in the conflict may be found The Industrial Workers of the World, who were
                    organized in 1905 with a constitution and a division into units called locals but they differ from
                    the Socialists in the collective ownership, management and distribution of the means of life, but
                    they do not believe in political action but direct. By direct action they do not mean violence but
                    they will achieve their purpose by simply refusing to deliver coal, bread, clothing, etc.
            They have a library in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , of one thousand volumes on Socialist literature. Their cards announce: Visit the Free
                    Socialist Library and Reading Room, 31 Mansur Building, 
                        Alabama
                     and 
                        Washington
                     streets. Many of the I. W. W's belong to the regular Socialist party. In
                    1908 there were sufficient numbers of them in the State convention to dominate it. No platform was
                    made, the faction in control claimed that all the platform that was needed could be put upon a
                    button in these words: "We want the earth now." The regular campaign speakers used
                    the old platform as a basis for their remarks and ignored the "direct actionists"
                    and gradually the party came into its own in the next convention and 
                  
                     45 Richard T. Ely, Socialism and Social Reform, pp.
                            41-2.
                  
                     46 Letter from L. L. Kiplinger, July 20, 1914.
               
                     the Industrial Workers of the World have little influence in
                    the movement.
            A controversy which seems likely to divide the party has arisen in 
                        Anderson
                    . One faction known as the Critchley-McDonald-Hunter, organized as Socialists, renounced
                    the dues-paying system of the party as a violation of the Corrupt Practices Act, held a convention
                    for the nomination of municipal offices to which all persons in sympathy with reform in 
                        Anderson
                     were invited to take part, claiming that the "dues-paying" party is
                    in the minority and does not represent the Socialist vote. They nominated Mr. Critchley for Mayor.
                    He had never belonged to the Red-card Socialist party. This faction captured the Anderson Critic, a supposed Socialist paper. 47 They had the support of
                    some of the ministers. They also succeeded in securing the recognition of the election commissioners
                    of the city so that the local had to go on the ballot in the city election under another party name
                    and party emblem. 48 The local protested for the rights and secured an attorney
                    to represent them in the court but they were not sustained. The national office sent Mr. Carl D.
                    Thompson to the scene of conflict, October 13, 1913. He spent nearly a week in hearing the testimony
                    on both sides and after going over the evidence submitted vindicated the local. The State convention
                    sustained the local and refused to seat any delegate from the faction.
            The Grievance Committee reported at the State convention February 14, 15, 1914, that Ira Tilton of 
                        Valparaiso
                     Local was guilty of charges of slander and anarchy against a member of the party. The
                    convention sustained the committee after hearing the evidence on both sides and recommended that 
                        Valparaiso
                     Local expel said member. The local refused to do this and he has since been nominated
                    for Congress from his district. The State organization can not expel an individual but it can expel
                    a local or a district, so the district is now under the ban.
            Mr. Debs thinks that these differences of opinion are disciplinary and tests of mettle and will
                    eventually result in good for the strength of the party.
            When Indiana came into the Union it was preeminently an agricultural State. When its present
                    constitution was adopted in 1851 sixty-four per cent, of the people were engaged in farming 
                  
                     47
                            Indiana Socialist Bulletin, December 1912.
                  
                     48
                            Annual Report of the Secretary-Treasurer, 1913.
               
                     but with the opening of the coal fields and the discovery of
                    gas and oil, conditions have changed rapidly.
            The coal fields are centers for workingmen grouped either in the county seats or in villages made up
                    of miners. The Socialist party finds this region its most fertile soil. The miners are almost all
                    foreigners, among which Germans and Jews predominate.
            Of the cities employing the greatest number of wage earners 
                        Indianapolis
                     made the greatest gain for 1904 to 1909, increasing 21.3%. The other cities in rank are
                            
                  South Bend, Ft.
                            Wayne, Evansville
                and 
                        Terre Haute
                    . These manufacturing cities are centers for Socialist organizations.
            Socialism does not appeal to the prosperous farmer living in river bottoms or near the great
                    manufacturing centers where he finds a ready market but in the southern part of the State where the
                    soil is naturally not very fertile and conditions in general not favorable there is much discontent
                    with existing affairs and this finds a chance for expression in the Socialist party. Propaganda
                    first and organization afterward has always been the plan of the Socialists.
            Before the battles of freedom there have always appeared the writers, the orators, the artists, and
                    the singers. Rousseau defying "Logic of Liberty," Tom Paine, calling for freedom
                    from the king; and Patrick Henry, as large as his times, fearlessly announcing new doctrines to take
                    the place of decadent ideals; Lincoln and others pleading for the chattel slave, and in our time,
                    multiplying voices crying aloud for complete freedom from wage slavery, subtlest and meanest of all
                    forms of human slavery.
            Chief among the editors stands Julius A. Wayland, born in 
                        Versailles
                    , Indiana, in 1854. His father died when he was three months old. He was intimately
                    acquainted with poverty but he gradually rose from "devil" to editor, removed to 
                        Pueblo
                    , 
                        Colorado
                    , where he prospered and through investments in real estate he found himself a rich man.
            The tide turned in 1890, as he says:
            I accidentally fell into a conversation about some strike on a railroad with Mr. Bradfield, an
                    English shoemaker, who had a little shop on Union Avenue, and he gave me a pamphlet to read on the
                    subject of the economic or Socialist view point. To be brief, he landed me good and hard. I saw a
                    new light and found what I never before knew existed. I went into the financial study so thoroughly
                    that the result was, 1 closed up my real  estate business and
                    devoted my whole energies to the work of trying to get my neighbors to see truths as I ha dlearned
                        them.49
            
            This conviction led him to return to newspaper business and he removed to his native State and
                    selected 
                        Greensburg
                    , Indiana, for his enterprise because of its being near the center of population in the 
                        United States
                    . He had plenty of money to run a paper for several years even if the subscribers were
                    not forthcoming. His paper called the Coming Nation was the first propaganda
                    Socialist paper to be published wholly in the interests of the party. The subscription list ran up
                    to 65,000, but the unexpected happened. His paper circulated chiefly in 
                        California
                     and among the Populists of the West and his being near the center of population was of
                    no avail. The proceeds of the paper were to be used for founding a colony, which purpose was carried
                    out in 
                  Ruskin, Tenn.
               , but unsuccessfully, so he removed to Girard and started the Appeal to Reason, which he successfully edited until his death, November 10, 1912.
                    After nearly two years it seems that the vow that was made by the acting editor–namely:
                        "The Appeal will continue its work until the dreams of our departed
                    comrade have been realized"– may come true, for it is still the widest
                    circulated of any Socialist paper.50 Mr. Wayland said, "Our lives are
                    but atoms–remember millions are to follow us. What we now enjoy others gave their lives
                    for. They did not shirk because they did not realize results." 51
            
            The newspaper as a means of State-party influence has not met with much success. Efforts were made
                    when the party was organized to publish a State paper but did not receive sufficient approval to
                    warrant its publication.52 Some fear that if there, is a recognized official
                    organ that there would be danger of capitalist control. The Toiler, published in 
                        Terre Haute
                     by the Social Democratic party, came out for Socialism after the Unity Convention and
                    published the party news until about 1905, when The Socialist published in 
                        Evansville
                     became the semi-official organ. An attempt to make The Register
                    published in 
                        Indianapolis
                     the party paper resulted in the paper's being endorsed for news.53 Papers are published throughout the State with no thought of making them
                    permanent but of strengthening the party by spreading the party 
                  
                     49
                            Leaves of Life, J. A. Wayland, 24.
                  
                     50
                            The Appeal to Reason, November 12, 1912.
                  
                     51
                            Leaves of Life, J. A. Wayland, 67.
                  
                     52
                            The Toiler, 
                                Terre Haute
                            , 1901, Sept. 20.
                  
                     53
                            Convention Report of 1905, Exhibit III.
               
                     principles and making new members. Mr. Debs and Mr. Reynolds as
                    well as other writers in the party are willing contributors of these papers.
            The Social Advance, published in 
                        Terre Haute
                     by an editorial committee composed of James Oneal, M. F. Hatfield, A. G. Slemons, James
                    Heenen and S. M. Reynolds, appeared on February 11, 1911, and lasted until May 3, 1912. The
                    ownership and control was vested in Local 
                        Vigo County
                    . It distributed 15,000 copies in 
                        Terre Haute
                     and West 
                        Terre Haute
                    . It came to its end through lack of funds.
            A new enterprise in the newspaper business started in the summer of 1910. A Socialist toured western 
                        Ohio
                     and eastern Indiana in the interest of the Finley Publishing Company of Finley, O. The
                    Socialists in that city had purchased a complete printing outfit and were endeavoring to establish a
                    chain of Socialist newspapers in the above mentioned district. Each Socialist Local was solicited to
                    take twenty shares at $10 per share. This entitled them to a paper. The whole chain of
                    papers was printed alike, leaving from two to four columns for Local's news, which was to
                    be filled in by the organization supporting it. The papers were to be locally named. Many Locals
                    took stock in the concern which seemed in a fair way to solve the problem when the flood washed away
                    the printing establishment in Finley.
            
               
                        Marion
                     has been the most active town in the State in late years in trying to run a paper. It
                    was in the Finley affair and called the local paper Freedom's Banner,
                    but the proposition was soon abandoned. Their next attempt was The 
                            Marion
                         Socialist, which was printed occasionally when the Socialists felt that they
                    had something to say of more than ordinary importance. The Socialists pledged to distribute 5,000
                    copies and on the strength of this pledge sufficient money was received from advertisements to pay
                    the printer. About eight copies of the paper were published.
            The Economic Intelligencer sprang up as a result of the tremendous vote cast by the
                    party in 1912 in Grant county. After the election a temporary organization was formed looking
                    towards the establishment of a company for the publishing of a Socialist and Trade Union paper in 
                        Marion
                    . The company was incorporated under the laws of the State with an authorized capital
                    stock of $10,000. The paper lasted from May 8, 1913, to December of the same year, when
                    it went into the hands of a receiver. All the  affairs were
                    adjusted satisfactorily by April of 1914 and the company again came into the control of the paper.
                    The management was changed when the receiver was released and a new management was appointed and is
                    now publishing the same paper under a new name, the Labor Sentinel, with Wilbur
                    Sheron as editor and publisher.
            The history of the Socialist papers in 
                        Marion
                     is typical of what is going on in all the largest towns in the State. Anderson has had
                    at three different times small papers in the field, but hardly dignified enough to be called
                    newspapers. One of these papers was called The Issue and its circulation was about
                    four thousand per week, by free distribution. It was used in campaigns, mostly, but was kept going
                    through the winter of 1910-11. "The devotion of our members who voluntarily tramped through
                    the snows of an unusually severe winter to deliver the paper from house to house was merely another
                    instance of the indomitable spirit which has kept the working class press alive in the face of
                    almost insurmountable obstacles."
            There is a plan to revive The Issue and make it a permanent paper. They have a
                    society called "The Workers' Publishing Society," which is engaged at
                    present in collecting the necessary funds to enable them to purchase the equipment. The paper will
                    be owned by the society, and the work of editing, printing, etc., will be performed entirely by
                    volunteer labor at first. They hope to have the paper ready for propaganda in the fall elections.
            
               
                        Indianapolis
                     has published the Indiana Socialist and the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Register. The last named paper started in May, 1907, and ran four years. It was
                    published from the headquarters of 
                        Marion county
                     Local by J. Frank Essex, managing editor. 
                        South Bend
                     Socialists published for a short time the Free Press. The Social Educator, printed by Ira C. Tilton at his home in 
                        Valparaiso
                     since October, 1911, is a monthly paper, the object of which is to emphasize equally
                    industrial and economic organization and political action." 54 This
                    paper is privately owned,
            The Social Kingdom, published at 
                        South Bend
                     in the interests of Christian Socialism in the Episcopalian Church, is not strictly
                    Socialist but with Socialistic tendencies.
            The American Socialist, published under the control of the National Office, hopes
                    to solve the newspaper problem for the State 
                  
                     54* The Social Educator, February,
                        1914.
               
                     by allowing the party a limited space in the paper for State
                    news upon condition that a certain number of subscribers may be secured in the State.
            The newspaper work of the party is a reminder of that of the Abolitionists in methods and crudeness
                    of machinery. An editor and one helper running a hand printing press often constitute the office
                    force. The papers are distributed by members of the party after their day's work is done,
                    often tramping through snow to perform this labor of love but thoroughly intelligent on the subjects
                    of the struggles of the working class and not loath to stop and discuss them when an interested
                    listener is found.
            It is estimated that sixty per cent, of the converts to Socialism have been won by the printed word.
                    The National Office maintains a literature department and publishes books that will have a
                    propaganda influence rather than commercial. The copyright is held by the party. It does not follow
                    that all books must be published by this office, for an author is at liberty to have his work done
                    in any manner that he chooses.
            Indiana has an unusually large number of writers on Socialism that deserve special mention. Robert
                    Wiles Hunter, born in 
                        Terre Haute
                     in 1874, has international reputation for work in Social problems in
                            
                  Chicago, London
                and 
                        New York
                    . Some of his best books on Socialism are as follows: Violence and the
                        Labor Movement, Poverty, The Crisis, and Socialists at Work. The last
                    named book is recommended "For those who want an accurate and fairly complete knowledge of
                    the subject suitable for the ordinary man. It is the best single book on the practical side of
                    Socialism, setting forth actual achievements and construction work of the party in all countries of
                    the world." 5S
                    The Crisis is a compilation of editorials written for the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Daily Socialist on the subject of strikes. Mr. Hunter is the author of a booklet
                    entitled Should Socialism Be Crushed? This is written especially for the wage
                    worker.
            William James Ghent was born in 
                        Frankfort
                    . His main scene of activity has been 
                        New York City
                    , where he was one of the founders of the Social Reform School and for a time president
                    of the Rand School of Social Science. His best known books are Our Benevolent
                        Feudalism, Socialism and Success, and Mass and Class.. The last is
                    considered "one of the best books on the 
                  
                     55
                            What to Read on Socialism, 7.
               
                     class struggle and is recommended to those who want a complete
                    course in the subject of Socialism."
            William English Walling, a nephew of the late W. H. English, graduated from the University of 
                        Chicago
                     in 1897 and after doing graduate work in economics and sociology established himself in
                    the University settlement work in 
                        New York City
                    . He writes for several popular magazines. His fame as a Socialist writer is based upon
                    these books: Russia's Message, The Larger Aspects of Socialism, and Socialism As It Is.
            George Davis Herron was born in Montezuma, Indiana, beginning life as a Congregationalist minister,
                    but was soon deposed because he was not considered orthdox. He has been a voluminous writer, putting
                    out a book every year or two. Among his best known ones are: Why I Am a Socialist, From
                        Revolution to Revolution, and War and Peace Under Socialism. He is well
                    known for his articles on Socialism, published in the Metropolitan a few years
                    ago. He is now living in 
                        Florence
                    , 
                        Italy
                    , and is engaged in writing articles for European magazines.
            The late Wallace D. Wattles of 
                        Kokomo
                     was the author of many books principally New Thought subject. He is the author of one
                    piece of work which is Socialistic, The Military Ideal. This was written in his
                    usual straight-out-of-the-heart style, published in the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Daily Socialist, and except in the minds of Socialists, was almost forgotten until
                    the war agitation began along the Mexican border. An anti-war leaflet was circulated containing The Military Ideal but credited to Jack London.
            James Oneal, born and reared in 
                        Terre Haute
                    , was one of the charter members of the party and the first State secretary. Mr. Oneal
                    was for two years in 
                        New York
                     working upon a weekly paper, but the greater part of his activity has been in his
                    native State. He is the author of The Workers in American History, Militant Socialism,
                        and A History of All Political Parties and Their Relation to the Working Class.
            
            Living near Griffith, Indiana, is Mr. Bruce Calvert, a fairly obscure man in his own State, but he
                    was discovered by the board of education in 
                        New York City
                     last year and secured to lecture in the public schools. While Mr. Calvert is not a
                    Socialist writer he is a member of the party and his Rational Education, and Open Road are full of Socialist theory–e. g.: "He who works
                    only because compelled to do so for his food and shelter and he who  takes no part in the world's work because he is physically
                    beyond the necessity for it are alike miserable unfortunates." 56
            
            Robert Alexander Wason, living in 
                        Delphi
                    , Indiana, is a Socialist and author of several novels and plays. His most
                    characteristically Socialist writing is Wolf–A Fable with
                        a Purpose, illustrated by G. Weiser, a house-painter of Delphi. Mr. Wason claims the
                    illustrations are better than in any other of his books. In The Steering Wheel,
                    published by Bobbs-Merrill, there is some humor based on genuine Socialism but the author had to
                    resort to farce in an attempt to make it clear to non-Socialistic readers.
            Stephen Marion Reynolds of 
                        Terre Haute
                     was a member of the Social Democratic party and its State treasurer when the Socialist
                    party was organized. He is at present the party's candidate for 
                        United States
                     senator. In 1912 he was the candidate for governor. "Where the fight is
                    thickest there you will find Steve, with his genial smile and rare good humor."57 His claims to be listed with the Indiana authors rests upon his book, Eugene V. Debs, His Life, Writings and Speeches.
            Foremost among the writers and speakers is Eugene V. Debs, born in 
                        Terre Haute
                    , November 5, 1855. James Whitcomb Riley said, "God was feeling mighty good
                    when he created 'Gene Debs and he didn't have anything else to do all
                    day." Mr. Debs was a member of a large family. He quit school and went to work at the age
                    of fifteen and became a locomotive engineer. He says of this period, "I mastered the
                    curriculum and graduated with the degree D. D., not as the lexicons interpret the letters, Doctor of
                    Divinity, but the better signification, Do and Dare." 58 It was in the
                    capacity of a railroader that Mr. Debs became interested in the problem of the working people.
                    "Separate him from the revolutionary working class movement and you lose Eugene V. Debs. He
                    is bone of its bone, flesh of its flesh. His very life, his hopes and aims, are interwoven into the
                    very mesh of the labor movement." 59 He joined the Brotherhood of
                    Locomotive Firemen and became the secretary and treasurer. He organized the American Railway Union
                    in 1894. This was the first organization which took in all laborers. He arbitrated the Great
                    Northern strike and received this commendation from President Hill, "You have fought a good
                    fight and I 
                  
                     56
                            The Open Road, 23.
                  
                     57
                            Appeal to Reason, Nov. 12, 1912.
                  
                     58
                            Eugene V. Debs, His Letters, Writings and Speeches.
                  
                     59Pamphlet by Charles H. Kerr.
               
                     respect you."60 He was not so
                    fortunate in helping to conduct the strike for the Pullman employees and their sympathizers.
                    President Cleveland intervened and with the Federal troops and courts put an end to the strike. Mr.
                    Debs and his associates were put in 
                        Woodstock
                     Jail for six months for contempt of court. Mr. Debs while in 
                        Woodstock
                     read books on Socialism with the result that he came to the conclusion that political
                    action was the best solution of the labor problem. His imprisonment added fuel to the flame of
                    dissatisfaction among the working classes. He has a large personal following at home and over the
                    entire 
                        United States
                    . He is the only man of any party to be nominated for President four times in
                    succession. His home is located on North Eighth street in 
                        Terre Haute
                    . The house is a comfortable two-story frame one. Those who think that a leader of the
                    laboring people should not live in surroundings better than their own should be reminded that Mr.
                    Debs owns but one piece of property and that this is but a pittance in comparison with what he has
                    given away, and that he resigned from a position that was paying him four thousand a year and that
                    he has paid the last bit of a debt of forty thousand dollars deficit left when the A. R. U.
                    disbanded. The debt was simply a moral obligation. He has written scores of pamphlets, some have
                    been extended to book size. Some of his best known works are: The American Movement,
                        Liberty, Industrial Unionism, Unionism and Socialism, Danger Ahead, Revolutionary Unionism, The
                        Growth of Socialism, The Socialist Party and the Working Class, and Prison
                        Labor.
            Every one in 
                        Terre Haute
                     from the street waif to the college president knows Mr. Debs and loves to talk to him
                    and about him. There, are few who cannot relate some kindness received at his hand. Mr. Riley
                    expresses the esteem in which he is held in his poem "
                        Terre Haute
                    ": 
                        And there's Gene Debs–a man 'et stands, And jest holds out
                            his two hands; As warm a heart as ever beat, Betwixt here and the Judgment Seat.
                    
            
            He was given an ovation when he returned from his campaign in November of 1912. The 
                        Terre Haute
                    
                    Tribune said the following:
            It is entirely apropos that a congratulatory word be expressed to E. V. Debs. Here in 
                        Terre Haute
                     we admire the man. The outside world is 
                  
                     60
                            Pierson's Magazine, August 12, 1912. "The Socialist
                            Candidates."
               
                     impressed with the tremendous following which has gathered
                    about him in the cause he represents. The demonstration here Monday night, when men, women and
                    children marched in procession to the number of thousands and then constituted a tremendous
                    political meeting, told in a measure the esteem of the people whose political belief he represents.
                    May Mr. Debs long survive to direct his flock.
         
         
         
            Who Was Our Sieur de Vincennes?
            JACOB P. DUNN, Controller of 
                        Indianapolis
                    
            
            MOST of the puzzles in Indiana history have been very satisfactorily solved, but
                    there remains one that has baffled the most diligent students of the 
                        United States
                     and 
                        Canada
                    –Who was the Sieur de Vincennes who established our ancient post on the 
                        Wabash
                    ? In the seventeenth century, the kings of 
                        France
                     established an inferior order of nobility in 
                        Canada
                    , and among the seigneuries or fiefs then established was that of 
                        Vincennes
                    , which was granted to Francois Bissot, in 1672. This estate is situated on the south
                    side of the St. Lawrence river below Quebec, opposite the eastern end of the
                    Isle of Orleans.
            In propriety nobody could be called Sieur de Vincennes except a holder of this fief, for there was no
                    other estate of this name in 
                        Canada
                     or 
                        France
                    . After the death of Francois Bissot, his son Jean Baptiste Bissot succeeded to the
                    title. That he was still Sieur de Vincennes on July 9, 1717, has been conclusively demonstrated by
                    Mr. Edmond Mallet, of 
                        Washington
                    , the author of the most extensive research on this subject. (Ind. Hist. Soc. Pubs.,
                    Vol. 3, No. 2.) It is therefore practically certain that he was the man of whom De Vaudreuil wrote,
                    on Oct. 28, 1719: "I learn from the last letters that have arrived from the Miamis, that
                    Sieur de Vincennes having died in their village, these Indians had resolved not to move to the
                        River St. Joseph." (N. Y. Col. Docs. Vol. 9, p. 894.) That this
                    village was Kikakon (later corrupted to Ke-ki-un-gi–site of 
                        Ft. Wayne
                    ) is established by the fact that in 1749, Captain Celeron appealed to La
                    Demoiselle's Miamis, who had deserted the French for the English, to return to Kikakon,
                    "the place where repose the bones of your fathers, and those of Sieur de Vincennes, whom
                    you loved so well, and who always governed you so that everything was well." (Margry, Vol.
                    6, p. 718.)
            No record has been found in 
                        Canada
                     of any succession to the fief of 
                        Vincennes
                     after 1719, until 1749, when it passed to Joseph 
                    Roy, by judicial decree. (Acte de Foy et Homage, Vol. 4, p. 348.) But from at least as early as 1722
                    to 1736, when he was killed in battle with the Chickasaws, there was a man in the French service
                    universally known, in all official and other correspondence, as Sieur de Vincennes, and this man was
                    the founder of our Indiana post. The local clues to his identity were practically exhausted by Judge
                    John Law in his history of 
                        Vincennes
                     in the following' passages:
            Francois Morgan de Vinsenne ("Vinsenne," for so he spelled his name) was an officer
                    in the service of the King of 
                        France
                    , and served in 
                        Canada
                     probably as early as 1720, in the regiment "de Carignan." At any
                    rate, as we are informed, he was engaged in some service with another officer on the lakes towards
                    Sault St. Marie, for the Governor of 
                        Canada
                    , M. de Vaudreuil, in 1725. At what time he took possession here is not exactly known,
                    probably somewhere about the year 1732. There is nothing on our records to show, but an act of sale
                    made by him and Madame Vinsenne, the daughter of Monsieur Philip Longprie of 
                        Kaskaskia
                    , and recorded there. The act of sale, dated 5th January, 1735, styles him "an
                    officer of the troops of the King," and "commandant au poste du
                    Oua-bache;" the same deed expressing that Madame Vinsenne was absent at the Post. Her
                    signature being necessary to the deed, she sent her mark, or cross, wh'ich is testified
                    to as hers, "X the mark of Madame Vinsenne," and showing that the good lady was
                    not very far advanced in the rudiments, though her husband was commandant, and her father the
                    wealthiest citizen of 
                        Kaskaskia
                    . The will of Monsieur Longprie, his father-in-law, dated the 10th of March, 1735, gives
                    to him, among other things, 408 lbs. of pork, which he wishes "kept safe until the arrival
                    of Mons. Vinsenne,' who was then at the Post. There are other documents there signed by
                    him as a witness, in 1733-4; among them one of a receipt for 100 pistoles, received from his
                    father-in-law, on his marriage. From all these proofs, I think it evident that he was here previous
                    to 1733, and left with his command, on an expedition against the Chickasaws, in 1736, by orders from
                    his superior officer at 
                        New Orleans
                    . On looking at the register of the Catholic church, it will be found that the change of
                    name from Vinsenne to 
                        Vincennes
                    , its present appellation, was made as early as 1749. Why or wherefore I do not know. I
                    wish the original orthography had been observed, and the name spelled after its founder, with the
                    "s" instead of the "c," as it should be.
            A few weeks ago, in view of the centennial interest in Indiana history, I wrote to Mr. Arthur
                    Doughty, Dominion Archivist, at 
                        Ottawa
                    , and inquired whether recent research had unearthed anything farther as to the identity
                    of our Sieur de Vincennes. He courteously forwarded to me the following document, under date of
                    January 17, 1916:
            
            MEMORANDA CONCERNING THE SIEUR DE VINCENNES IN ANSWER TO MR. J. P. DUNN'S
                    LETTER OP THE 4th DECEMBER, 1915
            
               1. Lettre du Conseil de Marine à Messrs. Beauharnois et Dupuy du 14 Mai 1726:
                        "Les 6 Enseignes en second ont été accordes aux Srs. Desgly,
                        Lorimier, de Vincennes, Mouchy, d'Hocquincourt, Delage et Malespine."
                        –Série B, Vol. 42, partie 2, p. 376). Registres Poste de Vincennes,
                        1740-1786.
               2. Copie d' une lettre écrité par M. de Vaudreuil
                        à M. de Boisbrillant de Montreal le 17 Aoult, 1724: "Je suis bien aise de
                        l'avancement des Srs. Sr. de Vincennes de mon gouvernernent et que vous
                        ayés entrepris de lui faire quitter un poste ou il est très
                        nécessaire par le crédit qu'il a chés les nations
                        sauvages de ce poste que vous scavés ne dependre en aucune façon du
                        gouvernernent du Mississipy. Je serois très fasché destre
                        obligé d'en porter mes plaintes a la cour, ce que je feray cependant si on
                        continue à l'en detacher. Je me flatte Monsieur que vous y
                        ferés attention et que vous reflechirés sur les inconvenances qui en
                        pourroient arriver. J'ai ecript l'année dernière
                        pour l'avancement du Sr. de Vincennes. J'espère que la Cour
                        aura fait attention à mes representations et qu'il aura de
                        l'employ cette année."–(Série F, Vol. 56,
                        p. 147.)
               3. Messrs. Beauharnois et Hocquart au Ministre, 15 Oct. 1730: "Les Vinatanous
                        (Ouiatanons) ont esté emmenés dans le Gouvernernent de la Louisaine par le
                        Sr. de A'incennes."–(Series F, Vol. 52, p. 27.)
               4. Liste des Offlciers qui servent dans les Compagnies en 
                            Canada
                        , avec l'extrait des troupes qui les composent, 1729: "Enseigne
                        en second 
                            Vincennes
                        . Fait à Quebec le 15 Oct. 1729.
                        Silly."–(Série F, Vol. 51, p. 237 bis).
               5. Messrs de Beauharnois et Hocquart, 12 Oct'. 1732: "Le Sr. de Vincennes
                        qui est aux Ousatanous a esté informe des dernieres conditions faites pour le
                        transport des boeufs illinois au 
                            Canada
                         et a ecrit a Mr. de Beauharnois que si Sa Majesté lui accordoit la mesme
                        gratification qu'au Sr. Gatineau, c'est-a-dire 1000 livres, il
                        parviendroit à en envoyer de vivants en 
                            Canada
                        ; comme elles ne sont que conditionnelles nous lui avons repondu qu'il
                        serait traité comme l'auroit esté le Sr.
                        Gatineau."– (Série F, Vol. 57, p. 73.)
               6. Mémoire sur les Sauvages du 
                            Canada
                        : "Au surplus Mrs. de Beauharnois et Hocquart agiront de concert autant que
                        l'éloignement le peut permettre avec Mr. Perier et Salmon sur tout ce qui
                        pourra procurer l'avantage des colonies. lis ont déjà
                        commencé à se mettre en relation avec eux et M. de Beauharnois a
                        écrit en conséquence au Sr. de Vincennes qui commande aux Ouitanons et lui
                        à recommandé de donner toute son attention pour rompre les mesures que les
                        Anglois pourroient prendre pour empecher le commerce entre les deux colonies et de disposer ces
                        Sauvages a seconder M. Périer, &c."–(Série F,
                        Vol. 58, p. 129).
               7. Alphabet Laffilard, Vol. II, p. 319: "VINCENNES–Enseigne en second 
                            Canada
                         23 Avril 1726: Lt. reforme 
                            Canada
                         1 Avril 1733." 
                        "VINCENNES–Enseigne reformé Louisiane 20
                            Mai 1722; Lieut, reformé Louisiane 19 Xbre 1722; Confirmé Louisiane 4
                            Avril 1730; Commandant aux Ouabaches; Tué aux Ouabaches 25 Mars 1736;
                            Remplacé aux Ouabaches 15 8bre 1736."
               
               8. Description et Historique de la Louisiane, 1680-1755, Moreau St. Mery. (Série
                        BS, Vol. 24, p. 452) : "1739. Eelation que fait le Sr. Drouet de Richarville de
                        l'engagement que M. D'Artaguette eut avec les Chicachas au mois de Mars
                        1736, par la voie du fort St. Frederic. II rapporte qu'en cette circoustance trois de
                        ces frères furent tués, que lui-même reçut 2 coups
                        de feu, au bras gauche et au has ventre, et un coup de flèche au poignet,
                        qu'il fut pris les amies à la main par 3 Chicachas et amené au
                        village avec 22 Français dont 20 ont été brulés,
                        entr'autres: le Père Sénat, Jésuite, M. M.
                        Dartaguette. de Vincennes, de Coulanges, de St. Ange fils, Du Tisné,
                        D'Esgly, de Tonty le Cadet. Ces messieurs furent brulés avec le Pere
                        Sénat le jour même de l'action depuis 3 heures de
                        l'aprèsmidi jusqu à minuit. Les autres Français
                        brulés étaient des Officiers et miliciens. Le Sr. de Courselas ou
                        Coustillas, offcier, brulé 3 jours après, au grand village avec un
                        iroquois du Sault St. Louis; le Sr. de Courselas avait été
                        nommé à la garde des poudres avec 35 hommes, S'étant
                        égaré il se rendit au village des Chicachas sans savoir ou il allait.
                        N'a pu savoir ce que sont devenus les 35 Français qui étaient
                        avec lui. Fut conduit dans la cnbane du chef du village de Joutalla aù il a
                        été gardé à vue pendant 6 mois par les jeunes gens,
                        après quoi il a vécu en pleine liberté et a chassé
                        avec les Chicachas."
            
            Translation of Above
            
               1. Letter of the Council of Marine to Messrs. Beauharnois and Dupuy, May 14, 1726:
                        "The six positions of Enseigne en second have been accorded to Sieurs Desgly, Lorimier,
                        de Vincennes, Mouchy, d'Hocquincourt, Delage and Malespine."
               2. Copy of a letter written by M. de Vaudreuil to M. de Boisbriant, of Montreal, Aug. 17,
                        1724: "I am well pleased at the advancement of the Srs. St. Ange, father and son, but I
                        am surprised that you should think of detaching Sieur de Vincennes from my jurisdiction, and
                        that you have agreed to have him quit a post when he is most necessary on account of the credit
                        he has with the Indians of this post, which, as you know, does not depend in any way on the
                        government of 
                            Mississippi
                        . I should be very sorry to carry my complaints to the court, which I shall do,
                        nevertheless, if he is detached. I flatter myself, Monsieur, that you will give heed, and that
                        you will reflect on the inconvenience which might arise. I wrote last year for the advancement
                        of Sieur de Vincennes. I hope that the Court has given attention to my representations and that
                        he will have the position this year."
               3. [Report of] Messrs. Beauharnois and Hocquart to the Minister, October 15, 1730 :
                        "The Ouiatanons have been led away into the jurisdiction of 
                            Louisiana
                         by Sieur de Vincennes."
               4. List of the officers who serve in the companies in 
                            Canada
                        , with  an abstract of the troops that compose
                        them, 1729: "Second Ensign. 
                            Vincennes
                        . Made at 
                            Quebec
                        , Oct. 15, 1729."
               5. [Report of] Messrs. Beauharnois and Hocquart, Oct. 12, 1733: "Sieur de Vincennes,
                        who is at the Ouiatanons, has been informed of the last conditions made for the transport of 
                            Illinois
                         cattle to 
                            Canada
                        , and has written to M. Beauharnois that if His Majesty will accord him the same
                        allowance as to Sieur Gatineau, that is to say 1,000 livres, he will succeed in sending live
                        cattle to 
                            Canada
                        ; as it is only conditional we have replied to him that he will be treated as Sieur
                        Gatineau was."
               6. Memoir on the Indians of 
                            Canada
                         : "In addition, Messrs. Beauharnois and Hocquart will act in concert, so
                        far as their separation permits, with Messrs. Perier and Salmon on all that can promote the
                        advantage of the colonies. They have already commenced to put themselves in relation with them,
                        and in consequence M. Beauharnois has written to Sieur de Vincennes who commands at the
                        Ouiatanons, and has recommended him to give all his attention to foil the measures which the
                        English may be able to take to impede the commerce between the two colonies, and to direct his
                        Indians to second M. Perier."
               7. Alphabet Laffilard, Vol. II. p. 319: "VINCENNES–Second Ensign, 
                            Canada
                        , April 23, 1726; Half-pay Lieutenant. 
                            Canada
                        , April 1. 1833." "VINCENNES–Half-pay Ensign, 
                                Louisiana
                            , May 20, 1722; half-pay Lieutenant, 
                                Louisiana
                            , Dec. 19, 1S77; Confirmed, 
                                Louisiana
                            , April 4, 1730; Commandant at Ouabaches, (i. e. 
                                Wabash
                             Indians); killed March 25, 1736; replaced October 15, 1736."
               
               8. Description and History of 
                            Louisiana
                        , 1680-1755, Moreau St. Mery: "1739. Relation made by Sieur Drouet de
                        Richardville of the engagement which M. de Artaguette had with the Chickasaws in the month of
                        March, 1736, on the way to Fort St. Frederic. He reports that in this engagement three of his
                        brothers were killed; that he himself received two gunshot wounds, one in the left arm and one
                        at the base of the stomach, and an arrow wound in his wrist; that he was taken arms in hand by
                        three Chickasaws and brought to a village with 22 French, of whom 20 were burned at the stake,
                        among others: Father Senat, Jesuit; Messrs. d'Artaguette, de Vincennes, de Coulanges,
                        de St. Ange flls, Du Tisne, d'Esgly, de Tonty the younger. These gentlemen were
                        burned with Father Senat on the day of the fight, from 3 o'clock in the afternoon to
                        midnight. The other officers who were burned were officers and militiamen. Sieur Courselas, or
                        Coustillas, officer, was burned three days later at the large village, with an Iroquois from the
                        Sault St. Louis; Sieur Courselas had been detailed with 35 men to guard the ammunition. Being
                        misled he came to the village of the Chickasaws without knowing where he was going. He was not
                        able to learn what became of the 35 Frenchmen who were with Courselas. He was conducted to the
                        cabin of the chief of the village of Joutalla, where he was guarded for six months by the young
                        men, after which he was given full liberty, and hunted with the Chickasaws."
            
            It seems certain to me that the two extracts from the Alphabet Laffilard, title "
                        Vincennes
                    ," refer to the same man. The  second one
                    unquestionably refers to the founder of our post; but it is equally certain that he was an officer
                    in both 
                        Canada
                     and 
                        Louisiana
                     at the same time. This is evident from several documents, but perhaps the letter of the 
                        Louisiana
                     Company to Perier, of September 30, 1726, is most explicit. I quote: "The
                    Company has ordered the establishment of a post on the river Ouabache, and has requested M. the
                    Governor of 
                        Canada
                    , on his part, to direct Sieur de Vin-cennes, who commands at the home of the
                    Ouyatanons-Miamis, established towards the head of the Ouabache, to come to an understanding with
                    the commandant of the new post to bring this nation nearer. M. de Boisbriant writes that he thinks
                    it necessary to give command of it to M. de Vincennes, who is already a half-pay lieutenant of the 
                        Louisiana
                     infantry, and who can do more with the Miamis than anyone else. To induce Sieur de
                    Vincennes to attach himself to the colony of 
                        Louisiana
                    , M. Perier will advise him that he has obtained for him from the company an annuity of
                    three hundred livres, which will be paid to him with his salary as half-pay lientenant."
                    (Margry, Vol. 6, pp. 659-60.;
            It strikes me that there is an important lead in the statement of the Abbe Tanguay to Mr. Mallet:
                    "I would observe, however, that it is not Francois married to Angelique
                    Guyon–but Pierre Francois Margane, Sieur des Forests." (Ind. Hist. Soc. Pubs.,
                    Vol. 3, p. 53.) I have not been able to find any trace of this Pierre Francois Margane in
                    Tanguay's Genealogical Dictionary. There cannot be any question of Judge Law's
                    statement that our Commandant wrote his name "Francois Morgan de Vinsenne." Law
                    had no opportunity to get the name except from an actual signature.
            Mr. Doughty also included with this an interesting study of the problem by M. Phileas Gagnan, of
                    which the following is a translation:
            JEAN BISSOT DE VINCENNES
            The following are a few notes supplementary to those already published by our friend Edrnond Jiallet,
                    of 
                        Washington
                    , on the Canadian voyageur and explorer, who has, it is said, given his name to the
                    capital of Indiana :
            1668–The twenty-first of the month of January sixteen hundred and sixty-eight, has been
                    baptised by me, Henry de Bernieres, cure of this parish, Jean Baptiste Byssot, son of Francois
                    Byssot and of Marie Couillard, his wife, born the nineteenth of the same month and year. The
                    godfather was M. Jean Talon, Intendant for the king of this country, and the godmother
                    Guillemette-JIarie Hébert, wife of the late Guillaume Couillard, of this
                    parish.–H. DE BEBNIEBES.
            
            1687–The 20th of October, 1687, Jean Bissot de Vincennes, son of the deceased
                    François Bissot and of Marie Couillard, presents his request to the Sovereign Council,
                    representing that having reached the age of twenty years, or thereabout, and being on the point of
                    going to 
                        France
                     for an employment, there should be accorded to him letters of privilege of maturity,
                    which will aid him in the management of his estate.–Judgments anil Deliberations, Vol.
                    Ill, p. 189.
            1694–The 25th of October, 1694 (Record Office of Chambalon), Jean Bissot, Sieur de
                    Vincennes, living at 
                        Quebec
                    , sells to Louis Marchand, also of Quebec, all the rights which he may have or claim in
                    the Seigneury of Mingan, and the unincumbered half of an estate in the Seigneury of Lauzon,
                    adjoining Beaumont, for the sum of 2,500 livres. This land has been granted to him, jointly with his
                    brother Charles, by his godfather, the In-tendant Talon. He signed at that time as follows:
            
            1709–The 10th of July, 1709 (Record Office of Le Pallieur), Jean Baptiste Bissot, Sieur de
                    Vincennes, living at 
                        Quebec
                    , is at 
                        Montreal
                    , and sells for a second time his portion of the seigneury of Mingan, to Frangois
                    Brissonet, merchant wig-maker of Montreal.
            1736–Extracts from a letter of Toussaint Loizel, found in the Record Office of Comparet,
                    notary at 
                        Montreal
                    :
            
                    
                  
                     
                        "LA PEETUITE,
                        "MY DEAR BROTHER:
                        I cannot neglect before closing to set down a word to you on the subject of the war
                                    which has been made on the Chick-asaws, in which we have lost forty Frenchmen. M.
                                    D'Artaguette, commandant of the said post, has been killed with seven
                                    officers of the troops, four of militia, all men of family (who) had part in this
                                    unfortunate action. It is a mortal desolation to us poor people of 
                                        Illinois
                                     to see ourselves deprived of so many brave men. I conclude, my dear
                                    brother, assuring you that nobody has more of attachment and good will.
                        
                                    Your dear brother,
                                    TOUSSIN LOIZEL."
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            "At Ste. Anne, the 13th of April, 1736.
            "In regard to the persons who have perished in this unhappy war, there are Messrs. De
                    St.-Ange, the son, Coulonge, Leville, the young Duclaude, Vincenne, LaGraviere with M. Belcoue and
                    another of his brothers, and the fourth with a broken shoulder. M. de Tonty, D'Esgly and
                    the elder Lalonde and Antoine Carriere, Louis Langlois, M. Dutilly, the son. The others are French
                    or from Quebec, whom we do not know."
            1746–On the 24th of January, 1656, the vestry-board of the parish of Notre Dame de Quebec
                    conceded to Frangois Bissot, Sieur de la Riviere, a pew of six feet in length by three and one-half
                    feet in depth in the  said church, to possess for himself and
                    his heirs in perpetuity, in consideration of one hundred livres once paid, and the ordinary dues of
                    said parish at each replacing. Originally this pew was below the railing and seats of the
                    choristers; in 1729 it was the second in the middle row on the left-hand side of the altar.
            At the death of Bissot. in 1678, his son-in-law, Louis Jolliet, on account of his wife, Claire
                    Franchise Bissot, and also, it is alleged, on account of services rendered as organist of the parish
                    of Quebec, had the possession of this pew until his decease, in 1700 and thereafter his wife Claire,
                    Bissot, also to her decease in 1710.
            Then succeeded to the wife of Jolliet, as occupant of the pew of Bissot, her daughter Claire Jolliet,
                    who had married Joseph de Fleury, Sieur de la Gorgendiere, Seigneur D'Eschambault. The
                    13th of March, 1720, the vestry-board of Quebec accorded regularly the possession of the pew of
                    Bissot to Sieur de la Gorgendiere, aforesaid.
            On the 8th of April, 1729, Francois Bissot, the son, citizen of Quebec, by the agency of Jacques
                    Delafontaine Balcour, his son-in-law, brought action against the vestry-board of Quebec to compel it
                    to put him In possession of the pew of his father, occupied by the Sieur de la Gorgendiere, offering
                    to pay all the expense of the replacement.
            The vestry-board answered that it was not able to avoid conceding the pew in question to Sieur La
                    Gorgendiere, as having married Claire Jolliet, grand-daughter of Bissot, there being then present no
                    other persons claiming as heirs of the late Sieur Bissot.
            Francois Bissot, who never took the title "De Vincennes" in this procedure, replied
                    that if he had not previously claimed the possession of his father's pew, it was because
                    he came to this city only once a year, and that he had not been called to the hearing of the
                    vestry-board because he would have opposed it; but that it had never taken away from him the right
                    which accrued to him by the title of concession to the said deceased Sieur Bissot, his father. The
                    vestry-board contested this action before the Provost, and on May 3 following judgment was rendered
                    in favor of Francois Bissot, who possessed it until his death; likewise his wife also until her
                    death in 1745.
            In 1746 still another contest arose concerning the possession of this pew. Nicolas Boisseau,
                    Secretary Judge of the King, and Chief Clerk of the Council, in his capacity of husband of Louise
                    Bissot, and of representative of Marguerite Forestier, widow of Jean Bissot de Vincennes, his
                    mother-in-law, claimed possession of the said pew against Jacques de la Fontaine, counsellor, who
                    had married Charlotte Bissot, daughter and heiress of Francois Bissot, the son, who had continued to
                    possess this pew since the death of his mother-in-law.
            The heirs of Francois Bissot represented, among other things, that Sieur Francois Bissot, the son,
                    was put in possession of the pew of his father only in 1729, that is to say after the death of his
                    elder brother, the Sieur de Vincennes; and that if there was any right of primogeniture in this
                    matter, it did not belong to the Sieur de Vincennes, who had never taken possession; moreover the
                    wife of Sieur Boisseau well knew that the  ancestors who would
                    have been able to contest this were dead, and that she ought not to ignore that she had a brother
                    married with all the ceremonies of the church to an 
                        Illinois
                     or Miami woman, who had left male children to whom the right of primogeniture belonged
                    in preference to her.
            The brief of Boisseau representing the widow Bissot de Vincennes is not present in the package of
                    papers which has come to our hands; but one can see, from the reply of the adverse party, that the
                    chief argument of his brief was the right which Jean-Baptiste Bissot de Vincennes had, as eldest
                    son, to succeed to his father in the possession of the pew. One sees that, in response to the brief
                    of Delafontaine, Boisseau declares: "That it is unquestionable that the late Sieur de
                    Vincennes, the son, of whom the said Delafontaine speaks in his writing, did not leave any male
                    heir." It was finally ordered that the widow of the late Sieur de Vincennes, as well as the
                    Sieurs Delafontaine and Boisseau, in their names, possess in common, each one-third of the pew in
                    question; and that after the death of the widow 
                        Vincennes
                    , 
                        Boisseau
                     and 
                        Delafontaine
                     both possess in equal parts. On the occasion of this procedure, I note that the wife of
                    the late Jean Bissot de Vincennes signed her name as follows: "Marguerite Forrestier, veuve
                    Vencene."
            From all this it follows that Jean Baptiste Bissot de Vincennes, who gave his name to the capital of
                    Indiana, had for godfather the celebrated Intenant Talon; that in 1687 he was about to depart to 
                        France
                    ; and that finally, in 1694, he signed, "Bissot Vensenne."
            It appears also clearly established that Jean Bissot de Vincennes was dead in 1729, and in
                    consequence it was his son who was burned by the Chlckasaws in 1736; that this son was married to an
                    Indian woman, that he had no male child, and that he was dead in 1746 at the time of the last
                    contest for the pew of his ancestor.
            The letter of Toussaint Loizel appears to contradict the writers who have spoken of this famous
                    battle with the Chickasaws in 1736, when they claim that it occured in May, whereas it could not
                    have taken place after the 14th of April, the date on which Loizel wrote, who furnished a
                    description with such detail that it cannot be mistaken.
            PHILEAS GAGNAN.
            After receiving these documents, I suggested to Mr. Doughty that possibly some light might be thrown
                    on the subject by the record of the passage of the fief to the Roy family; and he kindly sent me,
                    under date of February 14, 1916, the following copy of the record:
            Herewith is a copy of the Foy et Homage for the Seigniory of 
                        Vincennes
                    , which Mr. Dunn mentions in his letter. As to the Register of the Post of 
                        Vincennes
                    , it contains all the marriages, births and burials that were made between the years
                    1749-1786.
            Archives PuWiques, Serie M, Actes De Foy et Hommage, Vol. 4, p. 348.
            
            "LE SIEUB JOSEPH ROY SEIGNEUR ET PROPRIETAIRE DE LA SEIGNEURIE DE VINCENNES
            "En procédant à la confection du papier terrier du Domaine du Roy en
                    la province de Quebec est comparu au chateau 
                        St. Louis
                     de Quebec par devant nous Frederic Haldimand capitaine général et
                    gouverneur en chef de la province de Quebec et territoires en dépendans en
                    Amérique, Vice aniiral et garde du grand sceau d'icelle,
                    général et commandant en chef des troupes de Sa Majesté en la dite
                    province et frontieres. &.&.&. le sieur Joseph Roy seigneur et proprietaire
                    du flef et seigneurie de Yin-cennes sis et situe dans le district de Quebec, lequel comparant nous a
                    dit qu'il vient par devant nous pour rendre et porter au chateau 
                        St. Louis
                     de Quebec la foy et Iiommage lige qu'il est tenu de rendre et porter a Sa
                    Tres Excellente Majeste Georges Trois a cause du dit fief et seigneurie ci apres explique et nous a
                    represents pour titres de sa propriety; Primo, une coiie autentique d'une concession
                    donnfie et accordee par 51. Talon ci-devant intendant en la Nouvelle France le trois novembre 1672,
                    au sieur Bissot de soixante dix arpens de terre de front sur une lieue de profondeur a prendre sur
                    le fleuve St. Laurent depuis les terres apartenantes au sieur de la Citiere jusqu'aux
                    terres non concedees pour par lui ses hoirs et ayans cause jouir de la dite terre en fief et
                    seigneurie sans justice a la charge de la foy et hommage a porter au chateau 
                        St. Louis
                     de Quebec duquel il relevera aux droits et redevances accoutumes suivant la coutume, de
                    tenir ou faire tenir feu et lieu sur la dite seigneurie, de conserve!' et
                    faire con-server les bois de chene qui se trouveront propres a la construction des vaisseaux, de
                    donner avis au Roy des mines, minieres ou mineraux si aucuns se trouvent dans l'etendue
                    du dit flef et de laisser les chemins et passages necessaires; Secundo, sentence
                    d'adjudication par decret rendu en la prgvotfi de Quebec le dix neuf aoust 1749, au sieur
                    Joseph Roy pere du dit comparant du dit fief et seigneurie de Vincennes et dependances pour et
                    moyennant le prix et somme de cinq mille six cents livres, au bas de laquelle sentence est la
                    quittance de Monsieur Maitre Francois Etienne Cugnet Directeur du Domaine du Roy au dit sieur Joseph
                    Roy de la somme de huit cent quarante livres pour droit de quint le quart deduit du prix principal
                    de la dite adjudication, en date du vingt-un aoust 1749; Tertio, un acte passe devant Panet et son
                    confrere notaires a Quebec le vingt-cinq mars 1759, portant partage entre Jean Copron et Marie Roy
                    son Spouse tant au dit nom que comme tuteur des enfans mineurs de feu Pierre Reval et Charlotte Roy
                    son epouse, le comparant et Marie Gabriel Sarrault son Spouse, et Charles Lecours et Marguerit Roy
                    son epouse de la succession de feu sieur Joseph Roy et de Marie Jeanne Couture, par lequel il apert
                    que les dits Corpron et Lecours ont cede au dit comparant et son epouse le dit flef et seigneurie de
                    Vincennes en entier pour et moyennant une rente viagere de cinq cent vingt cinq livres a la veuve de
                    feu Joseph Roy, leur pere et beau-pere et en outre la somme de trois mille livres de Soulte et
                    retour; qui sont tous les titres que le dit comparant a dit avoir a nous representer nous supliant
                    qu'il nous plaise le recevoir a la foy et hommage lige qu'il est tenu de
                    rendre du dit flef et seigneurie de Vincennes relevant  en plein
                    fief de Sa MajestS, et à l'instant s'étant mis en devoir
                    de Vassal, tête nue, épée et éperons et un genouil en
                    terre aurait dit à haute et intelligible voix qu'il rendait et portait nos
                    mains la foy hommage qu'il est tenu de rendre et porter an Roy au chateau 
                        St. Louis
                     de Quebec à cause du dit fief et seigneurie, à laquelle foy et
                    hommage nous l'avons regu et recevons par ces présentes sauf les droits du Roy
                    en autre chose et de l'autruy en toutes, et le dit comparant a fait et souscrit entre nos
                    mains le serment de bien et fidèlement servir Sa Mnjesté et de nous avertir et
                    nos suecesseurs s'il aprend qu'il se fasse quelque chose contre son service,
                    et s'est obligé de fournir son aveu et dénombrement dans le temps
                    prescrit par les lois coutumes et usages de cette province; Dont et du tout il nous a requis acte
                    que nous lui avons accordé et a signé' avec nous.
            "FRED HALDIMAND.
            "J. ROY, "J. MONK, Attorney general.
            "Par ordre de Son Excellence, F. J. CUGNET, G. P.
                    T."
            –Archives PuUique, Serie M. Actes de Foy et Hommage, Vol. IV, p. 348.
            Translation of Above
            SIEUR JOSEPH ROY, SEIGNEUR
                    AND PROPRIETOR
                    OF
                    THE SEIGNORY
                    OF VINCENNES
            
            In proceeding for the completion of the court-roll record of the estate of Roy in the Province of
                    Quebec, has appeared at the Castle of 
                        St. Louis
                     of Quebec before us, Frederic Haldimand, captain-general and governor-in-chief of the
                    Province of Quebec and territories and dependencies in America, vice-admiral and keeper of the great
                    seal of the same, general and commandant-in-chief of the troops of His Majesty in the said province
                    and frontiers, etc, Sieur Joseph Roy, seigneur and proprietor of the fief and seignory of 
                        Vincennes
                    , situate in the district of Quebec, which applicant has said to us that he comes before
                    us to render and bring to the Castle of 
                        St. Louis
                     of Quebec the liege fealty and homage which he is held to render and bring to his Very
                    Excellent Majesty George III on account of said fief and seignory as hereunder set forth and has
                    shewn us as titles of his ownership: First, an authentic copy of a concession given and accorded by
                    M. Talon, former Intendant in 
                        New France
                    , November 3, 1672, to Sieur Bissot of seventy arpents of land front by a league in
                    depth to be taken on the River St. Lawrence from the lands belonging to Sieur de la CitiSre to the
                    lands not conceded, for him, his heirs and assigns to enjoy the said land in fief and seignory,
                    irrevocably, charged with rendering faith and homage at the Castle of 
                        St. Louis
                     of Quebec, by which he will discharge the accustomed dues and rents according to
                    custom, to keep or cause to be kept domicile and residence on the said seignory, to conserve or
                    cause to be conserved the oak trees suitable for the construction of vessels; to inform the King of
                    any mines, minerals or ores, if any are found within the said fief, and to permit all necessary
                    roads and ways. Second, writ of adjudication by decree given in the office of the Provost  of Quebec, August 10, 1749, to Sieur Joseph lioy, the father of
                    said applicant, of said fief and seignory of 
                        Vincennes
                     and dependencies, on paying the sum of 5,600 livres, on the back of which writ is the
                    receipt of 11. Master Francois Etienne Cugnet, Director of the Domains of the King, to the said
                    Sieur Joseph lioy, for the sums of S40 livres for the right to a fifth part, one fourth being
                    deducted from the principal of the said adjudication, dated August 21, 1749. Third, a deed passed
                    before Panet and his associate notaries at 
                        Quebec
                     March 25, 1759, making partition between Jean Corpron and Marie lioy, his wife, both in
                    said name and as guardian of the minor children of the late Pierre Eeval and Charlotte Roy, his
                    wife, the plaintiff and Marie Gabriel Sarranlt, his wife and Charles Lecours and Marguerite lioy,
                    his wife, of the estate of the late Joseph Roy and Marie Jeanne Couture; by which it appears that
                    the said Corpron and Lecours have ceded to the said plaintiff and his wife the said fief and
                    seignory of 
                        Vincennes
                     in entirety for the compensation of a life-rent of 525 livres to the widow of the late
                    Joseph Roy, their father and father-in-law, and in addition the sum of 3,000 livres, balance in
                    partition: Which are all the titles the said plaintiff has stated he had to present to us, asking
                    that it may please us to receive the fealty and liege homage which he is bound to render for the
                    said fief and seignory of 
                        Vincennes
                    , renewing in full fief of His Majesty; and at the time, putting himself in the attitude
                    of a vassal, with uncovered head, without sword or spurs, and with one knee on the ground he
                    declared in a loud and intelligible voice that he rendered and 'brought to our hands the
                    fealty and homage which he is bound to render and bring to the King at the Castle of 
                        St. Louis
                     of Quebec, on account of said fief and seignory; the which fealty and homage we have
                    received, and do receive by these presents, saving the rights of the King in one thing and another
                    in all respects; and the said plaintiff has made and subscribed the oath at our hands to well and
                    faithfully serve His Majesty, and to inform us and our successors if he apprehends that anything
                    works against his service, and he is obliged to furnish his acknowledgement and enumeration in the
                    time prescribed by the laws and customs and usages of this province. Of which and of all he has
                    prayed of us a deed, which we have accorded, and he has signed with us.
            FEED HALDIMAND.
            J. ROY, J. MONK, Attorney general.
            By order of His Excellency, F. J. CUGNET, G. P. T.
            While these documents do not solve the problem, they eliminate Jean-Baptiste Bissot, who evidently
                    died at 
                        Fort Wayne
                     in 1719. They also make more clear the circumstances accompanying the founding of Post 
                        Vincennes
                    , and slightly advance the date of that occurrence by the statement in 1730 that Sieur
                    de Vincennes has led the Piankeshaws into the jurisdiction of 
                        Louisiana
                    . The objections of the Governor of 
                        Canada
                     explain why the establishment of  the post was
                    delayed, after the orders for it in 1726. But probably the greatest interest will be found in the
                    revelation by these documents of the extent to which the feudal system was in force in 
                        Canada
                    , and the serious issues involved in the title to a pew in the cathedral at 
                        Quebec
                    .
         
         
         
            Some Features of the History of 
                        Parke County
                    
            
            BY MAURICE MURPHY, 
                        Rockville
                    , Indiana.
            PARKE county, possibly because its history possesses no intensely dramatic phases,
                    has never figured prominently in the writing of Indiana history. Its settlers were attracted
                    principally by the opportunity to be found in territory newly opened to settlers, and somewhat by
                    the facilities for trade and communication offered by the Wabash river, Sugar
                    and Caccoon creeks. Its history is simply that of the transition of a mighty forest into a
                    prosperous agricultural region, full of interest, but almost entirely devoid of thrills or
                    sensation. Only one complete history of the county has been written, that of the late John H.
                    Beadle, published in 1880. It is a scholarly, well-written book, though now somewhat out of date.
                    Gen. W. H. H. Beadle and Capt. John T. Campbell, of 
                        Rockville
                    , have contributed to newspapers many valuable articles dealing with various subjects of
                    Parke county history; and the writer has drawn frequently from material used in articles he himself
                    has written, published in the 
                        Rockville
                    
                    Tribune. This material was gathered almost exclusively from interviews with old
                    settlers. Some of the material which they furnished him is here used for the first time.
            Parke county is primarily an agricultural county. The broad Wabash valley and
                    the valleys of Sugar creek, Big Raccoon and their tributaries contain land of great fertility, and
                    splendid grazing facilities are offered by the parts of the county still timbered. Coal is the only
                    mineral resource of the county. Its Indian inhabitants were the Wea, Miami and Piankeshaw tribes,
                    while some French pioneers, principally coureurs de bois, settled along the 
                        Wabash
                     and along Sugar creek. In the Jesuit Relations for 1718 appears an
                    account of the visit of a young Frenchman to a village on Pun-ge-se-co-ne, (Sugar creek, literally
                    translated Water-of-many-sugar-trees.) These early French settlers acquired a prosperous trade from
                    the abundance of fur-bearing animals in the county, and many of them married squaws. The
                    "ten o'clock line" south of which, according to treaty, the whites
                    should be allowed to  settle, ran from the mouth of Big Raccoon,
                    along the line of the ten o'clock sun, to the corner of the old reservation on
                        White river. More Indian troubles followed, and the battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     followed, November 5, 1811.
            Harrison's army marched through what is now Parke county. It crossed Big Raccoon where the
                    town of Armiesburg now stands, and the 
                        Wabash
                     at the present site of Montezuma. No settlements were made in the county until about
                    1817, and none that resulted in the formation of a town until the settlement of Roseville in 1819.
                    Chauncey Rose was the most prominent citizen of this town. Its industries were three–a
                    store, a grist-mill, and a distillery. Within six years, four other towns had been established,
                    Armiesburg (1820), Portland Mills (1825), both on Big Raccoon, Montezuma (1823), on the
                        Wabash river, and 
                        Rockville
                     (1822), the county seat, on the high land in the center of the county.
            As the spread of cotton culture and the plantation system in 
                  Kentucky, Virginia
               
                    and the Carolinas about 1820-30, forced many of the smaller planters and non-slaveholding whites to
                    seek new homes, the majority of the Parke county pioneers can thus be accounted for. However, many
                    came from 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Pennsylvania
                     along with the westward movement of population. Most of the southerners came by way of
                    the 
                  Charlestown, Bloomington
                and 
                        Greencastle
                     trail. The settlers from the east came later by the National Road, and through the
                    woods to their new homes. Parke county was incorporated as a county in 1824, being named after
                    Benjamin Parke.
            The early settlers entered large claims at the 
                        Crawfordsville
                     land office. Settlement at first followed the streams, and practically the whole county
                    was settled by 1845. John H. Beadle records that the last time an Indian was ever seen wild in 
                        Parke county
                     was in 1856'.
            Though they naturally suffered hardships, the Parke county pioneers never suffered from cold or
                    hunger. Game abounded in the county and the abundance of fur-bearing animals and wood
                    made' any suffering from the cold unnecessary. The pioneers raised chiefly corn, and this
                    they took on horseback, in ox carts or row boats to the most convenient grist-mill. They lived far
                    apart, but came together at social or religious meetings.
            Rattlesnakes and sickness were the chief woes in early times. The former were exterminated when the
                    thickets were cleared, but the latter continued till recent years. Parke county is very rough  and broken, and in pioneer times contained many stagnant ponds
                    and swamps. "By following the windings of the low-land in some seasons," says John
                    H. Beadle, "a goose could swim across a township." Malaria, chills and fever were
                    common, and six doctors were kept busy during the malaria season in one small community. Travelers
                    of eighty years ago tell of going along Big Raccoon for miles, and not; finding a family free from
                    sickness. Dr. B. E. Hudson, of Montezuma, who has been practicing medicine there for fifty-seven
                    years, recalls very vividly his experiences. "A man was not a good citizen in those
                    days," he says, "who did not have the chills and fever. I have come home from a
                    hard day's work among people afflicted with it only to find my wife and daughter
                    affllicted with it also."
            The old theory was that a kind of poisonous gas was exhaled from the first turning up of the virgin
                    soil, which contaminated the air. Not until about forty years ago was the trouble located in the
                    swamps and ponds, and when these were drained, the annual epidemics almost entirely disappeared.
            The Wabash river and its tributaries were the earliest means of communication
                    and commercial intercourse between Parke county and other sections. Pioneers hauled wheat to
                            
                  Chicago, Lafayette, Cincinnati
                or 
                        Louisville
                    , sold it for 60 cents a bushel, and hauled back merchandise. Flatboats were sent to 
                        New Orleans
                     loaded with farm products. Pork packing was probably the chief industry of the pioneer
                    river towns, and later of the canal towns. Prices were quite different eighty years ago from now.
                    "About 1830, Patterson, Silliman and Company established a store at 
                        Armiesburg
                    , and on the original price list we find salt $7 per barrel and calico 35 to
                    40 cents per yard. But pork was sold for $1.50 a hundred, and two sleek, appetizing
                    200-pound porkers might be purchased for $6."
            With the building of the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie canal, 1844-47, and the building of the old east and west plank road about the
                    same time, business in the county took a boom. The canal went through Lodi (Waterman), Montezuma and
                    Armiesburg, and Howard, West Union and Clinton Lock (Lyford) grew up on its banks. All did a
                    thriving business in packing, shipping and importing. Most of the goods for 
                        Putnam
                    , as well as Parke county, came to these towns. Passenger boats, as well as freight
                    boats, were run on the canal, and much traveling was done in this way. Various social  gatherings, especially dances, were given on canal boats, as they went
                    up and down the canal. It began to decline about 1855, when it failed to meet the competition of the
                    railroads. Most of the canal bed and the remains of the aqueducts across Big Raccoon and Sugar creek
                    are still visible, and a section of the old tow path forms part of the gravel road between Montezuma
                    and West Union.
            The first railroad ever built through Parke county was the old 
                  Evansville, Terre Haute
                and 
                        Rockville
                    , in 1856. The line was built to 
                        Crawfordsville
                     in 1873, and later to 
                        Logansport
                     and 
                        South Bend
                    , and is now a part of the Vandalia system. The 
                  Indianapolis, Danville
                and
                    Southwestern was surveyed through the county in 1853, though when the road was built, in 1873, a
                    different route was followed.
            About forty years ago coal companies were organized and the industry was well on its feet in a few
                    years. The town of Nyes-ville, northeast of 
                        Rockville
                    , has grown up entirely through coal mining, though it was formerly much larger than
                    now. This is also true of the once flourishing town of Minshall, in 
                        Raccoon
                     township. Among active mining towns of the county are Rosedale, Roseville and Lyford,
                    in 
                        Florida
                     township, Mecca, in 
                        Wabash
                     township, and Diamond, in 
                        Raccoon
                     township. The 
                        Parke County
                     Coal Company was incorporated at Rosedale about twenty years ago, and has developed the
                    coal industry in 
                        Florida
                     township and in 
                        Otter Creek
                     township, Vigo county. This company has operated twelve mines in all, and the man to
                    whom chief credit for its success is due is the late Joseph Martin, of Rosedale, for years its
                    president and largest stockholder.
            Factories in the county have never been numerous, and such as have existed have not been of gigantic
                    proportions. A woolen mill was run from 1864 to 1875 in 
                        Rockville
                     by J. M. Nichols and W-M. Thompson, a stave factory from 1870 to 1872 by William Ten
                    Brook, and a carding mill in the days before the war. A series of disastrous fires consumed the
                    stave factory and most of the business houses of 
                        Rockville
                     in the years 1870-74, but the town long ago recovered from the loss. However, the
                    financial stringency following these fires had much to do with keeping away factories. The abundance
                    of wheat and timber in 
                        Parke county
                     support a large number of flouring and saw mills, and several grain elevators. A large
                    factory for the manufacture of pottery, established at 
                        Annapolis
                     more than forty years ago, is run today by R. G. Atcheson,  son of its founder. McCune and Batman had a woolen mill at 
                        Mecca
                     in the ante-bellum days, and at one time paid 90 cents a pound for wool. Among later
                    industries are the Marion Brick and Tile works, near Montezuma, the Dee clay works at 
                        Mecca
                    , the glass factory near Roseville, the canning factory at 
                        Bloomingdale
                    , and the tile factory of R. R. Lee at 
                        Bellmore
                    .
            Catholic missionaries visited Parke county in the days of the French regime. The first Protestant
                    preacher was Rev. Isaac McCoy, who founded an Indian school, but met strong opposition from the
                    Catholic half-breeds of the county. The first organized church in the county was old 
                        Shiloh
                     (Presbyterian) about four miles northeast of 
                        Rockville
                    . This church was founded in 1822 by Rev. Charles Beatty, and grew so rapidly that in
                    1832 there were enough members living in 
                        Rockville
                     to form a church, so they withdrew in that year. The church they founded at 
                        Rockville
                     still exists, though separated into two congregations from 1839 to 1869 on account of
                    doctrinal differences. Revs. William Cravens and William Smith preached Methodism in the county from
                    the earliest times, and a church was organized at 
                        Rockville
                     about 1826. The Indiana conference met in 
                        Rockville
                     in 1838, presided over by Bishop Soule. Over one hundred preachers came, by river,
                    stage or on horseback, ministers and horses being cared for free of charge during their stay.
                    Lorenzo Dow and Robert R. Roberts were among the eminent Methodist preachers who visited pioneer 
                        Rockville
                    . In later years, Dr. Lyman Abbott, then a pastor at 
                        Terre Haute
                    , frequently preached at the Presbyterian church.
            The Friends settled in the northwestern part of the county and established a church at 
                        Bloomingdale
                     in 1826. The Baptists also appeared at an early day and built a brick church in 
                        Rockville
                    . Some smaller sects took root in the county, such as Associate Presbyterians
                    (Seceders), Christians, United Brethren, Cumberland Presbyterians and Lutherans. Among pioneer
                    preachers of these sects, Doctor Dixon, of the Seceders, and Doctor Rudisill, of the Lutherans, were
                    noted over Indiana for their learning. The Roman Catholics founded a church at 
                        Rockville
                     in 1854, where Bishop H. J. Alerding, of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , was one-time parish priest.
            The Parke county pioneers were usually religious, and revivals, camp meetings, and meetings for
                    doctrinal debates were very common. In spite of the high degree of fervor aroused, these services
                    seldom witnessed any abnormal religious manifestations.
            
            Log schools were established in the county in the earliest times, and a brick school house was built
                    in 
                        Rockville
                     about 1830. The teachers knew the rudiments of the three R's and nothing
                    more. School government was an athletocracy. The school code was as complex as the law of contracts
                    and as rigid as that of Draco. An unsuccessful effort was made to get Asbury College (now DePauw
                    University) located at 
                        Rockville
                     in 1837. Though this resulted in failure it caused an educational awakening in 
                        Rockville
                    . For the next twenty years many select schools and a female seminary flourished. The
                    Parke county seminary was founded in 1839. This became 
                        Rockville
                     high school in 1872 and was commissioned a few years ago. The Friends were zealous for
                    education, and founded the Western Manual Labor Institute at 
                        Bloomingdale
                     in 1846; it soon became Bloomingdale academy and still exists in a prosperous
                    condition. It was famous under the superintendency of the late Barnabas C. Hobbs, who also did much
                    to develop the common schools of the county by his normal training classes.
            Few counties in Indiana experienced more stormy times during the Civil War than did Parke. The Peace
                    Democrats were very strong and at times menacing. They were led by Hon. John C. Davis and other men
                    of marked ability. Many trivial events gave rise to shooting affrays, and in the northern part of
                    the county, civil war was threatened. Even today we hear of the "Battle of
                    McCoy's Bluffs," or the "charge on Thompson's
                    hen-roosts." One company from Parke county, was sent out under the first call for troops,
                    serving in the 11th Indiana. Parke county furnished the first company to the first three year
                    regiments sent out from the state–Company A, 14th Indiana. The county also furnished
                    companies to the 31st, 21st, 43rd and 85th Infantry, the 6th and 11th Cavalry and the 9th Battery,
                    of the three year service; and to five short term regiments, the 78th, 115th, 133rd, 137th, and
                    149th. The county sent out about 2,000 soldiers in all–about one-eighth of the entire
                    population of a county in which a large portion of the inhabitants were actively or passively
                    opposed to the subjugation of the South. Ladies' Aid societies existed in every township,
                    and regularly furnished their contributions to the soldiers.
            Parke county has produced a number of noted people, among them Gen. Tilghman A. Howard, congressman
                    and minister to 
                        Texas
                    ; E. W. McGaughey, lawyer and statesman; Joseph A. Wright, U. S. senator and minister to 
                        Germany
                    ; Thomas H. Nelson, minister  to Mexico and 
                        Chile
                    ; Barnabas C. Hobbs, churchman and educator; Robert L. Kelly, now president of Earlham;
                    John H. Beadle, author and journalist; W. H. H. Beadle, educator; Juliet V. Strauss, writer; Horace
                    G. Burt, railroad magnate; James Harlan, U. S. senator and cabinet officer; James T. Johnson,
                    congressman; and Joseph G. Cannon, ex-speaker of the national house of representatives.
            Parke county was created by act of the legislature, approved January 9, 1821, and the governor
                    appointed the following officers to serve until an election could be held: Captain Andrew Brooks,
                    sheriff; James Blair, coroner; Wallace Rea, clerk and recorder; Dempsey Seybold and Joseph Ralston,
                    justices, and Stephen Collett, surveyor. The election was held the first Monday in August, 1821, the
                    poll being at the home of Richard Henry, just north of the Vigo county line. The Jackson men cast a
                    majority of the votes, of which there were seventy; drinking and a fight between two of the election
                    officials followed. It was then considered dishonorable to complain of a man and have him fined for
                    fighting on election day or muster day; so all the accumulated quarrels of a year or two were then
                    and there settled, and the books squared.
            In its early period, Parke county, like most frontier localities of that day, was strong for Andrew
                    Jackson and his faction. Most of the few 
                        Clay
                     men in the county were settlers from 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and 
                        New England
                    . However, about 1826-'30 came a great migration of Quakers and small
                    plantation owners from the Carolinas, most of whom were Whigs. This addition to the Whig vote gave
                    them a fair majority over the Democrats, and Parke county most of the time since has returned Whig
                    or Republican majorities. The strength of parties in various localities of the county is very much
                    as it was in pioneer days. Liberty and Penn townships have always returned great Whig and Republican
                    majorities. Only once, in 1906, did a Democrat carry Penn township. Reserve and Jackson townships,
                    largely settled by Kentuckians and Virginians, who favored low tariff and opposed the 
                        United States
                     bank, have been strongly Democratic from earliest times. The early Whig and Republican
                    domination was so strong that no Democratic newspaper ever succeeded in the county until after the
                    Civil War, though the 
                        Rockville
                    
                    Republican, under various names, has been in existence since 1827. After the war
                    the Montezuma Era was founded and became the Democratic organ, but gave way to the 
                        Rockville
                    
                    
                    Tribune a few years later, now the only Democratic paper published in the county.
            As originally constituted, 
                        Parke county
                     contained eleven townships, 
                        Adams
                    , 
                        Washington
                    , 
                        Sugar Creek
                    , 
                        Liberty
                    , 
                        Reserve
                    , 
                        Wabash
                    , 
                        Florida
                    , 
                        Raccoon
                    , 
                        Jackson
                    , 
                        Union
                     and 
                        Greene
                    . Scott township was formed from parts of Liberty, Sugar Creek and Reserve townships in
                    1854, but its name was changed shortly to Penn township. Sugar Creek township was divided in 1855,
                    and the eastern portion was called Howard township. These thirteen townships compose the county as
                    it is at present.
            The county seat was finally established at 
                        Rockville
                     in 1824, but not until after court had been held at 
                        Roseville
                    , 
                        Armiesburg
                     and 
                        Montezuma
                    . The regular circuit judge usually presided part of the time at court and the rest of
                    the time court was in charge of associate judges, who generally were respected men of the community,
                    but who usually knew little of the law. Few of the county officials prior to 1850 were men of
                    education. For years it was the custom to elect a coroner from among the stalwart blacksmiths of the
                    county, and Randall H. Burks, Solomon Pinegar and Johnson S. White were among the pioneer
                    blacksmiths to hold this office. The office of sheriff was considered very desirable, and among
                    antebellum political leaders and men of ability who served as sheriff we find William T. Noel,
                    Austin M. (
                        Montana
                    ) Puett, James W. Beadle, and David Kirkpatrick. The first cases tried in the county
                    were for petit larceny, gambling and selling liquor without a license. No famous trial occurred
                    until that of Noah Beauchamp for murder in 1841. Beauchamp was a blacksmith of Vigo county, a good
                    citizen, but a man of hot temper and a family pride that was almost a mania. As a result of a charge
                    that his daughter had stolen some goods from a neighbor's family, Beauchamp became almost
                    insanely angry, and the result was a quarrel and a murder. The case was venued to Parke county, and
                    a memorable trial followed, in which "Ned" McGaughey prosecuted and Tilghman A.
                    Howard represented Beauchamp, and the result was conviction with a death penalty. An appeal to the
                    supreme court and even to the governor failed, and Beauchamp was hanged in November, 1841, on a
                    hill-side about a mile east of 
                        Rockville
                    . Only one other man has ever been hanged in the county, "Buck" Stout,
                    who committed a murder in 
                        Montgomery county
                     in 1884, and whose case was venued to Parke county.
            
            Parke was originally paired with Vigo county in the election of a representative, but in 1826 was
                    created an independent district. This continued until this present year, when Parke and 
                        Fountain
                     counties were paired. The county early was joined with 
                        Vermillion
                     as a member of the 47th judicial circuit of Indiana, and this continued until the
                    present year, when, by act of legislature, the counties were given separate circuits.
            From 1825-50 was an age of extensive internal improvements all over the county, and Parke county
                    became involved in the general plan. When the national road was surveyed in 1827, one set of
                    surveyors reported a route across Parke county, crossing the 
                        Wabash
                     at 
                        Clinton
                    . However, 
                        Terre Haute
                     had a representative in Congress, and he succeeded in having the route built through
                    the 
                        Prairie City
                    . As early as 1825 the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie canal was a local issue in the county, and in that year Joseph M. Hayes, of
                    Montezuma, announced himself for the legislature, making the canal his chief issue. It continued a
                    vital issue in the county until it was finally built. The county was well enough settled to feel the
                    effects of the panic of 1837, and from thenceforward national issues are most prominent in campaigns
                    of the county. The Whigs used their "log cabin and hard cider" propaganda with
                    complete success, so far as Parke county was concerned, in the campaign of 1840.
            The campaign of 1844 was one of the most bitter and strenuous ever waged in the county. Political
                    activity began in 1843 with the gubernatorial and senatorial elections. E. W. McGaughey, Whig, and
                    Joseph A. Wright, Democrat, both of 
                        Rockville
                    , were the opposing candidates for congress, and both made stump speeches at almost
                    every town, cross roads and school house in the county. The Olive Branch, the Whig
                    organ, was a typical pioneer political "sheet," more noted for calumny and rabid
                    partisanship than for news sense and correct use of the King's English. During the
                    campaign it abounded in such expressions as these: "Infidel dog, who thus dares to open his
                    God-defying lips," "locofoco," "sneak," "wily
                    Joe (Joseph A. Wright)" and "tricky Austin (Austin M. Puett)". The Whigs
                    carried Parke county, but the State went Democratic, and Wright carried the district by just three
                    votes–this was especially humiliating to the Parke county Whigs, as "Little
                    Ned" ran far below his ticket in the county. (He was elected two years later.) The editor
                    of the Olive Branch offered excuses, and announced: "No paper will be
                    issued from this office  for three or four weeks, as the editor
                    must go out and collect what is due him." 
                        Clay
                     clubs sprang up all over the county early in 1844, the Democrats soon manifested
                    similar activity, and by fall politics had transcended business in importance. Citizens of 
                        Rockville
                     remember a wagon and team of oxen coming to town from the northern part of the county,
                    the wagon and horns of the oxen being adorned with polk berries. Polk-stalks and roosters were
                    Democratic, and 'coon skins and poplar boughs Republican emblems. "Argument was
                    completely abandoned. In its stead was abuse of the opposing party, vile caricatures of its
                    candidates, obscene and foolish song, with sarcasm, clamor and confusion."
            Campaigns continued to be heated, but the issue gradually changed from "finance" to
                    "slavery," and on this issue the Whigs maintained a strong plurality in the
                    county. The "underground railroad" ran through Parke county, and a
                    "station" was established in a barn about a mile east of 
                        Annapolis
                    .
            Many of the Carolina settlers of Parke county were Democrats and many of them carried the southern
                    viewpoint with them to the north. Other Democrats believed that the war was wrong on principle, and
                    that it was wrong to subdue the South. These two refractory elements of population, quite numerous
                    for a county the size of Parke, were always threatening and at times turbulent, until the end of the
                    war. The bitter feeling engendered by this conflict figured strongly in the political campaigns of
                    the next twenty-five years, and has not died out entirely even today. The Knights of the Golden
                    Circle, later called the Sons of Liberty, had a very large organization in 
                        Rockville
                    , at the head of which were Hon. John G. Davis and Dr. H. J. Rice. Both were speakers of
                    ability, and made many speeches denouncing this "unholy, fratricidal strife." Mr.
                    Davis spoke in all parts of the county in behalf of the Peace Democracy. The 
                  
                            Parke County
                         Republican viciously attacked him; its editor, Madison Keeney, was a man of
                    undoubted courage, much ability and zealous patriotism, but his attacks were as vicious as they were
                    fearless. His aptitude for strong language and acrid repartee especially angered the Peace
                    Democracy. Mr. Davis called the Republican a "smut machine," and
                    Mr. Keeney replied: "Smut machines has two definitions—agricultural, a machine
                    for separating the grains of wheat from the dirt, the chaff and the cheat; political, a paper for
                    separating the good and true men from ditto. We accept the designation." The
                    editor's life and property were threatened,  but he
                    refused to retract anything he had said, "even though all the people of Parke county were
                    against him." Local speakers, notably Thomas N. Rice, a prominent attorney, spoke
                    vigorously against the Peace Democracy upon various occasions, and in August, 1861, Governor Morton
                    spoke in 
                        Rockville
                    . Contemporary estimates of the crowd that heard him, doubtless greatly exaggerated,
                    place it at 5,000 people. He discussed the issues of the war and then turned to the
                    "Copperheads":
            "Let them beware, vigilant men watch them, and the moment they transgress the limits of the
                    law, they will be summarily punished." This warning became perverted, as was to be expected
                    in such strenuous times, and John G. Davis, in subsequent speeches, spoke of the "sneaking
                    administration that sets a vigilance committee secretly to watch men who merely express their honest
                    convictions."
            John G. Davis, once one of the most popular and esteemed men in 
                        Rockville
                    , became the most hated, at least so far as the Union people were concerned. Things
                    continued in this state for many months, and a Union mass meeting was called. The meeting
                    unanimously decided that John G. Davis should be killed, but one man, a little more far-sighted than
                    the others, asked, "Whom shall we appoint to kill him?" Thereupon the meeting got
                    "cold feet." No one wanted the task, and Mr. Davis continued to live and make
                    speeches. Daniel W. Voorhees spoke several times in 
                        Rockville
                     during the war; the Peace Democracy considered his speeches examples of almost
                    infallible logic, while the succeeding issues of the Republican gave him a severe
                    grilling.
            The smoldering hatred of the two factions resulted in a shooting affray in 
                        Rockville
                     in the summer of 1862. The Puetts were a family prominent among the Peace Democracy,
                    having been natives of 
                        North Carolina
                    , and an apparently harmless remark made by one of them about Marshal James K. Meacham,
                    a loyal Union man, was enlarged upon and carried to Mr. Meacham in the form of a challenge. The
                    result was that the marshal and his supposed challenger started a fight with pistols on the public
                    square of 
                        Rockville
                    , and were joined by others, so that the affair became a miniature battle. However, the
                    heat of the conflict was in inverse proportion to the accuracy of the firing, for no one was killed
                    or seriously wounded.
            The anti-war party was successful in the elections of 1862, but was defeated in those of 1863.
                    Accordingly, while affairs were comparatively  quiet during
                    1863, trouble was started again in 1864. The Butternut building, referred to elsewhere, became an
                    object of strong suspicion, and it was said with more or less truth that the Peace Democrats were
                    drilling in this building. All kinds of insurrection rumors were afloat, and some Union men even
                    went so far as to threaten Dr. Rice's life and property in case of open violence. The Republican became full of talk about "traitors,"
                    "suspicious looking characters," "secret drillings,"
                    "hundreds of desperate, villainous looking strangers" and the like. "It
                    were a wearisome task," says John H. Beadle, "to recount all the rumors of
                    trouble, the neighborhood quarrels, the fist fights, threats and recriminations." Only in
                    Sugar Creek and Howard townships, however, was there any organized attempt at violence. These
                    townships contain many hills and hollows and were still in the rude, pioneer state at the outbreak
                    of the war. Sentiment was about evenly divided on the question of the Union.
            A general raid was made, late in 1864, on the Union men of Howard township, with the intention of
                    disarming them. George Lay, an aged engineer who had served on the 
                        Baltimore
                     & 
                        Ohio
                     thirty years before and who later settled on a farm in 
                        Howard
                     township, proved the La Tour d'Auvergne of the locality. When about thirty
                    anti-war men raided his home at night, he rose and met them undauntedly with a corn cutter. He
                    wounded two of them, one mortally, and his wife blew a blast on the dinner horn to arouse the
                    neighbors, and the raiders fled, one accidently shooting himself fatally while climbing a fence in
                    haste. Mr. Lay himself was wounded, but not seriously. The home guards, consisting of a company from
                    nearly every township in the county, all under the command of Col. Caspar Budd, of Howard, was
                    called out, and the hills and vales of Sugar Creek and Howard townships were raided. Much excitement
                    was aroused, but the Peace Democracy had subsided, and no fighting occurred.
            A great sensation was aroused in 
                        Rockville
                     the same summer by what may be called the Beaubien incident. Rev. J. C. B. Beaubien was
                    pastor of the First, or Old School, Presbyterian church of 
                        Rockville
                    , at the time, and made an apparently professional visit to 
                        Indianapolis
                    . After his return a letter was found, purporting to be from prominent Knights of the
                    Golden Circle in 
                        Rockville
                     to their brethren in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The missive gave instructions for the sending of arms and ammunition to the 
                        Rockville
                     branch of the  order, in care of Mr. Beaubien. The
                    letter was printed in the 
                  
                            Parke County
                         Republican, and made the subject of long and venomous editorial comment in
                    several issues. Whether or not the letter was authentic, it was taken at full value in 
                        Rockville
                    ; Mr. Beaubien, though known previously as a man of high character and considerable
                    ability, found himself deserted in wrath by most of his congregation, and publicly denounced by men
                    who had been his most active members. He professed no connection with the K. G. C, and avowed his
                    loyalty to the Union, but the people refused to believe in his sincerity, and he finally resigned in
                    November, 1864.
            By the campaign of 1864, the Republicans and War Democrats had been fused into the Union party, and
                    carried Parke county that year by a large majority. Candidates for theiUnion nomination for office
                    were numerous, and there were no less than nine for sheriff. The convention nominated principally
                    ex-Union soldiers, and the War Democrats were greatly peeved over the nomination of a young Union
                    soldier for commissioner, over Judge Walter Danaldson, one of the most prominent citizens of
                    Montezuma. They had the following notice published in the Republican, and carried
                    it out, though without success and against the protest of Judge Danaldson himself: "We, the
                    War Democrats of Parke county, intend to run Judge Danaldson as our candidate for county
                    commissioner, whether he is willing or not."
            One unfortunate class living in 
                        Rockville
                     during the Civil War was the class of people who came from the South, and who, although
                    they believed in the righteousness of the Union cause, were too devoted "to the home of
                    their childhood and the traditions of their people" to support it actively. Their practical
                    neutrality was regarded as an evidence of treason, and they were called "traitors"
                    and "Copperheads" by the radical Unionists, and socially ostracised. Notable among
                    these people was the Rev. Samuel H. McNutt, a Presbyterian minister of talent and most lovable
                    character. Some 
                        Virginia
                     and Carolina families were looked upon with suspicion because of their Southern origin,
                    even though their sons fought with gallantry in the Union army.
            The antipathy for the men who opposed the war or actually sympathised with the South remained very
                    bitter for years after the war, and has not yet completely subsided. "Copperhead,"
                    "traitor," "rebel," "Knight of the Golden
                    Circle," were employed for years by the Republicans in campaigns. This was especially true
                    in the bitter  campaign of 1876. As a typical incident, a highly
                    respected Reserve township Democrat had been selected as the party's choice for
                    representative, and his prospects were seriously hurt by a communication to the Republican to the effect that during the war he had refused a Union soldier refreshment.
                    According to the communication, he said that he cared nothing for the soldiers or the cause for
                    which they were fighting. He replied with a communication, professing esteem for the soldiers of the
                    Union, and speaking of various relatives who had served in the Civil War. However, as he and several
                    brothers were of military age during the war, and none served in the army, the first communication
                    was generally believed, and the candidate failed of election. In the deadlock following the election
                    of 1876, feeling was exceedingly tense. Democratic meetings denounced in severest terms Senator
                    Morton, as well as "Republican treachery," and "narrow, unreasonable war
                    prejudices."
         
         
         
            The 
                        Terre Haute
                     Company
            BY A. R. MARKLE, 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Indiana.
            ON the twelfth and thirteenth of September, 1816, Joseph Kit-chell, of Jackson
                    county, Indiana, entered at the 
                        Vincennes
                     land office the east fractional sections of twenty-one and twenty-eight in township
                    twelve north and range nine west, with eleven other parcels of land in what afterward became Vigo
                    county. This was a part of the Harrison Purchase of September 30, 1809, at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , and was formally opened to entry and settlement by the proclamation of President
                    Madison of May 1, 1816, which provided for sales to be held at 
                        Vincennes
                     on the second Monday in September following and for three succeeding weeks.
            Another proclamation of the same date allowed entries by the Canadian Volunteers, under the Act of
                    March 5, 1816, to be made on and after the first Monday in June, and there were over 23,000 acres
                    entered under that act, beginning with the entry of Major Abraham Markle of 800 acres on June 3,
                    this being the first entry in the tract, and his being land Warrant number one under the act.
            Kitchell disposed of his entries by an assignment to Cuthbert and Thomas Bullitt, of
                            
                  Louisville, Kentucky
               ; Jonathan Lindley, of 
                        Orange county
                    , Indiana; Abraham Markle, of Fort Harrison, and Hyacinth Laselle, of 
                        Vincennes
                    , who entered into an agreement dated September 19, 1816, whereby the thirteen tracts
                    were apportioned into twelve equal and undivided shares of which the Bullitts were the owners of
                    two, Lindley four, Markle three and Laselle three. Further, in order that the payments for the land
                    might be regularly made, they agreed that immediately on the execution of the agreement they would
                    pay one-fourth of the purchase money, to wit: the sum of $7,594.07 into the office of the
                    receiver of public monies at 
                        Vincennes
                    ,–$1,265.90 by the Bullitts, $2,531.81 by Lindley,
                    $1,898.85 by Markle and $1,898.85 by Laselle. A like amount was to be paid on
                    or before the first of August in 1818, 1819 and 1820, and a default by any of the parties should
                    forfeit his interest in the venture. They further agreed to make such disposition of  the lands as they might deem most advisable as soon as they
                    conveniently could, arranged for a division of the profits on the first of June, 1818, and on the
                    first of October of each year thereafter, and that any remaining unsold lands should be advertised
                    July 1, 1821, and sold on the first of the following October with a final settlement of the proceeds
                    in money, notes, bonds, dues and demands following such sale.
            On this same date a power of attorney was given "our trusty friend, Joseph Kitchell,
                    authorizing him to take possession of the lands and to lay out in town lots, in and out, such part
                    thereof" as they or any three of them might direct. In accord with this plan Kitchell filed
                    for record at 
                        Vincennes
                     October 25, 1816, the plan of the future town, comprising 268 lots, a public square and
                    two double-sized lots which were reserved for a church and school.
            On the day following this agreement Major Markle sold to Eliakim Crosby, Eleazar Aspinwall and Harlow
                    & Trimble three-quarters of his interest; September 25, Lindley sold seven-eighths of his
                    interest to Joseph Kitchell, David Raymond, Henry Speed, William Hoggatt, Jonathan Lyons, John
                    DePauw, and John Owens, while three days later, September 28, Laselle partitioned his three shares
                    into twenty parts and sold portions to Truman Blackman, John Goodwin, Joseph Warner, Caleb Crawford,
                    Andrew Himrod, M. and H. Recherville, Michel Broulliette, Pierre Broulliette, Modeset &
                    Shields, John Dunn, Robert Harrison, John Carr, John R. Holloway, Charles Thompson, John Andrews,
                    Pierre Laplante and John Long. Here we have within ten days of the agreement of the five men, and
                    before a stake had been driven on the plat, thirty-five part owners.
            The first sale of lots took place October 31, 1816, and the Western Sun, of 
                        Vincennes
                    , said, November 9, that upwards of twenty-one thousand dollars worth were sold the
                    first day. Many of these sales, if not all of them, were on credit, the larger part of them did not
                    stay sold and for some time to come the stakes of the surveyor were the only evidences of the town
                    of 
                        Terre Haute
                    . It is true that six houses were built that fall and winter but at the time of the
                    location of the county seat, in the spring of 1818, the owners were still able to donate forty-eight
                    of the lots to the county as part payment for the location. We may be sure, too, that they did not
                    give away all the lots that they owned at this time.
            B. Johnson, sheriff of Sullivan county, advertised to be sold for  taxes sixty lots that were not highly valued, in the Western Sun of November
                    22, 1817, which would look like quick action on his part, for the patent was not yet issued for the
                    land.
            Within the company, many sales took place, for on April 16, 1817, John Holloway sold to Wilson and
                    Pocock, Wilson assigning his interest to Pocock but acquiring, May 23, the interest of John Long;
                    Eliakim Crosby sold to William Harlow, October 31; Henry Speed sold to the Bullitts, July 3, 1818;
                    July 13, John Carr sold to Charles Smith; the next day Smith bought of John Dunn; October 3, Abraham
                    Markle sold his remaining interest to Eleazar Aspin-wall, this sale later confusing affairs for the
                    company; October 15, John Owens sold to the Bullitts; June 28, 1819, Joseph Kitchell sold to
                    Jonathan Lindley; October 23, Harlow sold his half interest in Harlow & Trimble's
                    purchase to John Sheets. December 22, Thomas Bullitt sold to his brother Cuthbert the portion they
                    had bought of Henry Speed and John Owens. June 6, 1820, Harlow sold his interest as the surviving
                    partner of Harlow & Trimble to Gorham A. Worth of the Bank of the 
                        United States
                    , this being a deed of trust to secure the payment of a noifi for $6,300.00,
                    which was evidently paid, for he again sold this shaft to John Sheets, January 30, 1821.
            Meantime John Badollet, register of the land office at 
                        Vincennes
                    , issued October 17, 1820, his certificate showing payment in full to have been made for
                    the land on which the town was located.
            Eleazar Aspinwall, who had bought out Abraham Markle, died in November of 1820, and, as his estate
                    was believed to be insolvent and the company was in doubt to whom his interest was payable, his
                    heirs gave a power of attorney to William C. Linton, August 31, 1821, under which he made a trust
                    deed April 16, 1822, to Moses Hoggatt and Robert Sturgus, trustees under a deed of September 29,
                    1821, whereupon the trustees proceeded to execute deeds to the purchasers, many of whom had long
                    before paid for their lots and had erected thereon houses, shops and stores in which the social and
                    business life of the future city was beginning to be manifest.1
            
            
               
                  1 The references for this paper are to the Deed Records
                        of 
                            Knox
                         and Vigo counties. The records of the Canadian Volunteers are from the county Plat Books. The author has in his possession many of the old personal papers,
                        Including land patents.
            
         
         
         
            Tecumseh's Confederacy
            By ELMORE BARCE, Fowler, Indiana.
            RESULTS of the TREATY of FORT
                        WAYNE.
            THE Treaty of 
                        Fort Wayne
                     having been consummated and certain disputes relative to horse-stealing and other
                    depredations having been arranged between the two races, the governor, on the fourth of October,
                    1809, set out on his return to 
                        Vincennes
                    . He traveled on horse-back, accompanied by his secretary and interpreter, passing
                    through the Indian villages at the forks of the 
                        Wabash
                     and striking the towns of the Miamis at the mouth of the Mississinewa. Here dwelt John
                    B. Richardville, or Peshewah, a celebrated chief of that tribe, who was later chosen as principal
                    sachem on the death of Little Turtle. Richardville had not been personally present at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , but he now received the governor cordially, and gave his unqualified approval to the
                    previous proceedings.
            The day before his arrival at Peshewah's town, the governor met with a singular
                    experience, which not only served to illustrate the advancing ravages of liquor among the tribes,
                    but Harrison's intimate knowledge of Indian laws, customs and usages. On coming into the
                    camp of Pucan, a Mississinewa chieftain, he discovered that one of the warriors had received a
                    mortal wound during a "drunken frolic" of the preceding evening. The chiefs
                    informed him that the slayer had not been apprehended, whereupon the governor recommended that if
                    the act "should appear to have proceeded from previous malice," that the offender
                    should be punished, "but if it should appear to be altogether accident to let him know it
                    and he would assist to make up the matter with the friends of the deceased."1 This payment of wergild or "blood-money" among the Indian tribes in
                    compensation of the loss of life or limb, is strongly in accord with the ancient Saxon law, yet it
                    seems to have prevailed as far back at least as the time of William Penn, for in one of his letters
                    describing the aborigines of America, he says: "The justice they (the Indians) 
                  
                     1
                            Treaty of 1809. Official Proceedings. State Library, 23-24.
               
                     have is pecuniary; in case of any wrong or evil fact, be it
                    murder itself, they atone by feasts and presents of their wampum, which is proportioned to the
                    offense, or person injured, or of the sex they arts of; for, in case they kill a woman, they pay
                    double, and the reason they render, is that she can raise children, which men cannot
                        do."2 Later on, at 
                        Vincennes
                    , the governor had another and similar experience which affords additional proof that
                    the custom above mentioned was still prevalent. A Pottawattomie chieftain from the prairies came in
                    attended by some young men. He found there about one hundred and fifty of the Kickapoos, who were
                    receiving their annuity, and he immediately made complaint to the governor as follows: "My
                    father," said he, "it is now twelve moons since these people, the Kickapoos,
                    killed my brother; I have never revenged it, but they have promised to cover up his blood, but they
                    have not done it. I wish you to tell them, my father, to pay me for my brother, or some of them will
                    lose their hair before they go from this." The governor accordingly advised the chief of
                    the Kickapoos to satisfy the Pottawattomie. On the following day the latter again called upon the
                    governor, and said: "See there, my father," showing three blankets and some other
                    articles, "see what these people have offered me for my brother, but my brother was not a
                    hog that I should take three blankets for him," and he declared his intention of killing
                    some of them unless they would satisfy him in the way he proposed. The governor, upon inquiry,
                    finding that the goods of the Kickapoos were all distributed, directed, on account of
                    the' 
                        United States
                    , a small addition to be made to what he had received."3
            
            At the villages on Eel river the governor met with certain of the Weas of the
                    lower river region, and dispatched them to summon their chiefs to meet with him at 
                        Vincennes
                     and ratify the treaty. He arrived at the latter place on the twelfth of October, having
                    been absent for a period of about six weeks, and found that the complete success of his mission had
                    restored in large measure that popularity which he had beforetime lost on account of his advocacy of
                    slavery. The acquisition was heralded far and wide as a measure calculated in all respects to
                    forward the interests of the Territory. Not only was the total domain acquired, vast in extent and
                    acreage, (being computed at about 2,600,000 acres), but it was considered extremely 
                  
                     2
                            History of the Shawnee Indians, by Henry Harvey, a member of the Society
                            of Friends. 
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1855. 2 0.
                  
                     3
                            Dawson's Harrison–Appendix. Note
                            VI.
               
                     fertile, well watered, and as containing salt springs and
                    valuable mines.4 Once the Weas and other tribes were removed from close
                    proximity to the settlements, it was confidently expected that the old clashes would cease and that
                    the new territory would be speedily surveyed and opened up for entry and purchase to within twelve
                    miles of the mouth of the 
                        Vermillion
                    . The Indians also, seemed well satisfied. The Pottawattomie had been urgent;
                    Richardville, Little Turtle and all the Miamis had given their consent; the Weas and Kickapoos were
                    about to ratify. Nothing was then heard of the pretensions of the Shawnee Prophet or his abler
                    brother. In a message to the territorial legislature in 1810, reviewing the events of this period,
                    Harrison said:
            It was not until eight months after the conclusion of the treaty, and after his design of forming a
                    combination against the 
                        United States
                     had been discovered and defeated, that the pretensions of the Prophet, in regard to the
                    land in question, were made known. A furious clamor was then raised by the foreign agents among us,
                    and other disaffected persons, against the policy which had excluded from the treaty this great and
                    influential character, as he is termed, and the doing so expressly attributed to the personal
                    ill-will on the part of the negotiator. No such ill-will did in fact exist. I accuse myself, indeed,
                    of an error in the patronage and support which I afforded him on his arrival on the 
                        Wabash
                    , before his hostility to the 
                        United States
                     had been developed. But on no principle of propriety or policy could he have been made
                    a party to the treaty. The personage, called the Prophet, is not a chief of the tribe to which he
                    belongs, but an outcast from it, rejected and hated by the real chiefs, the principal of whom was
                    present at the treaty, and not only disclaimed on the part of his tribe any title to the lands
                    ceded, but used his personal influence with the chiefs of other tribes to affect the cession.5
            
            The "principal chief" of the Shawnees above alluded to was undoubtedly Black Hoof,
                    or Catahecassa who at this time lived in the first town of that tribe, at 
                        Wapakonetta
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    . Being near to 
                        Fort Wayne
                     he had no doubt attended the great council at that place. He had been a renowned
                    warrior, having been present at Braddock's Defeat, at Point Pleasant, and at St.
                    Clair's disaster. But when Anthony Wayne conquered the Indians at Falling Timbers, Black
                    Hoof had given up, and he had afterward remained steadfast in his allegiance to the 
                        United States
                     government. When Tecumseh afterwards attempted to form his confederacy, he met with a
                    firm and steady resistance from Black Hoof, and his influence was such that 
                  
                     4
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Western Sun, Oct. 21, 1809.
                  
                     5
                            Dawson's Harrison, 166; 
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Western Sun, Dec. 8, 1810.
               
                     no considerable body of the Shawnees every joined the
                    Prophet's camp. Black Hoof died in 1831 at the advanced age of one hundred and ten years,
                    and tradition says that like Moses, "his eye was not dim; nor his natural force
                    abated." The fact that Black Hoof, who was of great fame among his tribe, as both orator
                    and statesman, made no claim to any of the lands sold below the 
                        Vermillion
                    , is strong accumulative proof of the assertion afterwards made by Harrison to Tecumseh,
                    that any claims of his tribe to the lands on the 
                        Wabash
                     were without foundation.6
            
            The personal admirers and intimate associates of Harrison, were, of course, overjoyed. They were no
                    doubt influenced to some extent by the fact that another long lease of power was in sight. Their
                    leader's victory would inure to their own benefit. Still, there were no cravens among
                    them. A banquet followed, participated in by a number of the leading citizens of the town and
                    adjacent country. Judge Henry Vanderburgh, of the Territorial Court, presided, and toasts were drunk
                    to the treaty, Governor Harrison, his secretary Peter Jones, and "the honest
                    interpreter," Joseph Barron. Of those present on that occasion, some were afterwards
                    officers at 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , and one, Thomas Randolph, fell at the side of his chief.7
            
            There were those, however, who were not to be silenced by the governor's triumph. The
                    political battles of that time were extremely vitriolic, and the fights over territorial politics
                    had been filled with hate. Certain foes of the governor not only appeared in 
                        Knox county
                    , but eventually in the halls of the National Congress, and there were those who did not
                    hesitate to question the governor's integrity. Among those who bitterly opposed Harrison
                    was one William McIntosh, " a Scotchman of large property at 
                        Vincennes
                    , who had been for many years hostile to the governor, and who was not believed to be
                    very partial to the government of the 
                        United States
                    ." One John Small made an affidavit before Judge Benjamin Parke that prior to
                    the year 1805, McIntosh had been upon good terms with Harrison, but that Harrison's
                    advocacy of a representative government for the Territory, or its advancement to the second grade,
                    had turned him into an enemy. However this may be, Harrison and his friends, in order to vindicate
                    his fame at home and abroad, now resolved to bring an action for damages in the territorial 
                  
                     6
                            Report of American Ethnology. Handbook of American Indians. Part I. 212.
                  
                     7
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Western Sun, Oct. 21, 1809.
               
                     courts against McIntosh "for having asserted that he
                    had cheated the Indians, in the last treaty which had been made with them at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    ." The suit being brought to issue, it was found that of the territorial judges
                    then on the bench, one, probably Judge Vanderburgh, was a personal friend of the
                    governor's, and one a personal friend of McIntosh. These gentlemen, therefore, both
                    retired, and the Honorable Waller Taylor, who had recently come into the territory, assumed the
                    ermine. A jury was selected by the court naming two elisors, who in turn selected a panel of
                    forty-eight persons, from which the plaintiff and defendant each struck twelve, and from the
                    remaining twenty-four the jury was drawn by lot. With this "struck jury" the cause
                    proceeded to a hearing. The following account, given in Dawson's
                    Harrison, will prove of interest:
            Before a crowded audience, this interesting trial was continued from 10 a. m. till one
                    o'clock at night. Every person concerned in the Indian Department, or who could know
                    anything of the circumstances of the late treaty at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , was examined, and every latitude that was asked for, or attempted by the defendant, in
                    the examination permitted. Finding that the testimony of all the witnesses went to prove the justice
                    and integrity of the governor's conduct in relation to everything connected with the
                    Indian Department, the defendant began to ask questions relating to some points of his civil
                    administration. To this the jury as well as the court objected, the latter observing that It was
                    necessary that the examination should be confined to the matter at issue. But at the earnest request
                    of the governor the defendant was permitted to pursue his own course and examine the witnesses upon
                    every point which he might think proper. The defendant's counsel abandoning all idea of
                    justification, pleaded only for a mitigation of damages. After a retirement of one hour the jury
                    returned a verdict of $4,000 damages. To pay this sum, a large amount of the
                    defendant's lands were exposed for sale, and in the governor's absence in the
                    command of the army the ensuing year, was bought in by his agent. Two-thirds of his property has
                    since been returned to McIntosh and the remaining part given to some of of the orphan children of
                    those distinguished citizens who fell a sacrifice to their patriotism in the last war.8
            
            The head chief of the Weas at this time was Lapoussier, whose name would indicate that he was of
                    French extraction. He arrived at 
                        Vincennes
                     on the fifteenth day of October with fifteen warriors and was later followed by Negro
                    Legs, Little Eyes and Shawanoe, who came in with other companies of the tribe. On the twenty-fourth
                    the governor assembled them for the purpose, as he stated, of 
                  
                     8
                            Dawson's Harrison, 176.
               
                     ascertaining whether they "were in a situation to
                    understand the important business he had to lay before them." He said that he had shut up
                    the liquor casks, but that he found that his proclamation prohibiting the sale of liquor had been
                    disobeyed. He was glad to find, however, that they were sober, and expressed a wish that they would
                    not drink any more while the deliberations were in progress. On the twenty-fifth he explained fully
                    all the provisions of the Treaty of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , the benefit the Weas would derive from an increase in their annuities, and their
                    removal from the vicinity of the settlements to the neighborhood of their brothers, the Miamis, who
                    lived farther up the river. He also told them that they would be granted the same amount of goods in
                    hand received by the larger tribes, on account of the inconvenience they would suffer by moving from
                    their present habitations. The governor's conduct in refusing to negotiate while any
                    evidences of liquor were manifest was in strict keeping with his attitude at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , and his generous treatment of a smaller and weaker tribe certainly redounds to his
                    credit. The Treaty of 
                        Fort Wayne
                     was duly ratified and approved on the twenty-sixth of October, 1809, and the convention
                    was signed by Lapoussier and all the Wea chieftains without a single dissent.9
            
            Only one tribe now remained who had any manner of claim to any of the lands in the Wabash
                        Valley. This tribe was the Kickapoos, who lived at the mouth of the
                        Vermillion river and in that part of Indiana now comprising practically all
                    of 
                        Vermillion county
                     and parts of 
                        Warren
                     and Parke. Accordingly a treaty was concluded with them at 
                        Vincennes
                     on the ninth of December, 1809, whereby they fully ratified all the proceedings at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , and further ceded to the 
                        United States
                     "all that tract of land which lies above the tract above ceded (the north line
                    of which was Raccoon creek), the 
                        Wabash
                    , the Vermillion river, and a line to be drawn from the north
                    corner of said ceded tract, so as to strike the Vermillion river at the
                    distance of twenty miles in a direct line from its mouth." Among the interesting names
                    attached as witnesses to the articles is that of Hyacinthe Lasselle.
            THE PROPHET and the RELIGIOUS
                        MOVEMENT.
            The confederacy then, was established upon a priesthood. Let us regard the priest. He was a character
                    remarkable enough to 
                  
                     9
                            Treaty of 1809. Official Proceedings (State Library),
                            23-24; also 
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statute at Large–Indian Treaties, 
                                    Boston
                                , 1856, 116.
               
                     invite the attention of all the leading men of that day,
                    including Jefferson. He was subtle and crafty enough to delude Harrison into the belief that he
                    might be a friend instead of a foe.
            The account related by Simon Kenton, and vouched for by John Johnston and Anthony Shane, is that
                    Tecumseh, Laulewasikaw, the Prophet, and a third brother, Kumskaukau, were triplets; that Tecumseh
                    was the youngest or last born of the three; that "this event so extraordinary among the
                    Indian tribes with whom a double birth is quite uncommon, struck the mind of the people as
                    supernatural, and marked him and his brothers with the prestige of future greatness–that
                    the Great Spirit would direct them to the achievement of something great." The date of this
                    extraordinary event is given by most authors as 1768, making Tecumseh and the Prophet some five
                    years the seniors of General Harrison. "They were born in a cabin or hut, constructed of
                    round saplings chinked with sticks and clay, near the mouth of Stillwater, on the upper part of its
                    junction with the Great Miami, then a pleasant plateau of land, with a field of corn not subject to
                        overflow."10
            
            Of the early life of the Prophet not much is known. "According to one account he was noted
                    in his earlier years for stupidity and intoxication; but one day, while lighting his pipe in his
                    cabin, he fell back apparently lifeless and remained in that condition until his friends had
                    assembled for the funeral, when he revived from his trance, quieted their alarm, and announced that
                    he had been conducted to the spirit world."11 As an orator, he is said
                    to have been even more powerful than Tecumseh himself, and his great influence in after years among
                    the various tribes would seem to bear that statement out. However, he was boastful, arrogant, at
                    times cruel, and never enjoyed the reputation for honesty and integrity that his more distinguished
                    brother did. In personal appearance he was not prepossessing. He had lost one eye, "which
                    defect he concealed by wearing a dark veil or handkerchief over the disfigured organ." It
                    has been related that he was dominated to some extent by his wife, who was regarded by the Squaws at
                    the Prophet's Town as a queen.12
            
            Whole nations are at times moved with a sort of religious fervor or frenzy which extends to all ranks
                    and stations. During 
                  
                     10
                            A Chapter from History of the War of 1812, Col. William Stanley Hatch,
                  
                     11
                            Report of Bureau of American Ethnology. Handbook of American Indians, II,
                            729.
                  
                     12
                            Archives of Aboriginal Knowledge. H. R. Schoolcraft, 353.
               
                     these periods strange mental phenomena are at time apparent,
                    great social and political movements are inaugurated, and the whole complexion of affairs seems to
                    undergo a rapid and sometimes radical change. Such a movement occurred among the Indian tribes of 
                        Ohio
                     and those along the 
                        Wabash
                     about the beginning of the year 1806. At this time a part of the scattered and broken
                    remnants of the Shawnee tribe had been gathered together under the Prophet and Tecumseh at 
                        Greenville
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    . In November of the year before the Prophet had "assembled a considerable
                    number of Shawnees, Wyan-dots, Ottawaws and Senecas, at 
                        Wapakoneta
                    , on the Auglaize river, when he unfolded to them the new character
                    with which he was clothed, and made his first public effort in that career of religious imposition,
                    which in a few years was felt by the remote tribes of the upper lakes, and on the broad plains which
                    stretch beyond the 
                        Mississippi
                    ."13 The appearance of the Prophet was not only highly
                    dramatic but extremely well-timed. The savage mind was filled with gloomy forebodings. The ravages
                    of "fire-water," the intermixture of the races, the trespassing of the white
                    settlers on the Indian domain, and the rapid disappearance of many of the old hunting grounds, all
                    betokened a sad destiny for the red man. Naturally superstitious, he was prepared for the advent of
                    some divine agency to help him in his distress. No one understood this better than the Prophet. He
                    may have been the dupe of his own imposture, but im-posters are generally formidable. He was no
                    longer Laulewasikaw, but Tenskwatawa, "The Open Door." "He affected great
                    sanctity; did not engage in the secular duties of war or hunting; was seldom in public; devoted most
                    of his time to fasting, the interpretation of dreams, and offering sacrifices to spiritual powers;
                    pretended to see into futurity and to foretell events, and announced himself to be the mouth-piece
                    of God."14
            
            The first assemblage at 
                        Wapakoneta
                    , was later followed by a series of pilgrimages to Greenville, which shortly spread
                    alarm among the white settlers. Hundreds of savages flocked around the new seer from the rivers and
                    lakes of the Northwest and even from beyond the 
                        Mississippi
                    . In May of 1807 great numbers passed and repassed through 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . To all these gatherings the Prophet preached the new propaganda. He denounced
                    drunkenness, and said that he had gone up into the clouds and had seen the abode of the 
                  
                     13
                            Drake's Life of Tecumseh, 86.
                  
                     14
                            Archives of Aboriginal Knowledge. H. R. Schoolcraft, 353-355.
               
                     Devil; that there he saw all the drunkards and that flames of
                    'fire continually issued from their mouths, and that all who used liquor in this world
                    would suffer eternal torment in the next; he advocated a return to pristine habits and customs,
                    counseling the tribes "to throw away their flints and steels, and resort to their original
                    mode of obtaining fire by percussion. He denounced the woolen stuffs as not equal to skins for
                    clothing; he commended the use of the bow and arrow. As to intermarriage between the races, all this
                    was prohibited. The two races were distinct and must remain so. Neither could there be any separate
                    or individual ownership of any of the Indian lands; these were the common heritage of all. The weak,
                    aged and infirm were to be cherished and protected; parental authority was to be obeyed. In
                    conclusion, he never failed to proclaim that the Great Spirit had gifted him with the divine power
                    to "cure all diseases and to arrest the hand of death, in sickness, or on the
                    battlefield."
            The fame of the Prophet soon aroused the jealousy of many of the neighboring chiefs and medicine men.
                    They saw their power dwindling away and their authority diminishing. They took steps to check the
                    advancing tide of fanaticism, but were at once adroitly met by the introduction of an inquisition
                    into witchcraft, which had been almost universally believed in by the tribes, but against which, the
                    Prophet now hurled the most direful anathemas. He declared that any one who dealt in magic or
                    "medicine juggleries" should never taste of future happiness, and must be
                    instantly put to death. His deluded and awe-struck followers promptly began a systematic searching
                    out and persecution of "witches," and all under his personal direction. The finger
                    of the seer often pointed at a prominent warrior or chieftain, or some member of their household.
                    The Prophet's mere denunciation was proof enough. The victim went to the torture of death
                    by fire, or some other fate equally revolting. Among the Delawares, especially, the most shocking
                    cruelty ensued, and finally these things came to the ears of the governor at 
                        Vincennes
                    . He immediately sent a "speech" by special messenger to the headsmen
                    and chiefs of the 
                        Delaware
                     tribe, beseeching them to cast aside all fallacious doctrines, to denounce the Prophet
                    and to drive him out of their midst. In the course of this "speech" he said:
                    "Demand of him some proofs at least of his being the messenger of the Deity. If God has
                    really employed him, He has doubtless authorized him to perform miracles that he may be known and
                    received as a prophet.  If he is really a prophet, ask of him to
                    cause the sun to stand still, the moon to alter its course, the rivers to cease to flow, or the dead
                    to rise from their graves."15
            
            The language of the Governor proved to be unfortunate. On June 16, 1806, there was a total eclipse of
                    the sun in northern latitudes for a period of about five minutes, at about a half an hour before
                    midday, and this event had long been heralded by the astronomers of that time, and had come to the
                    ears of the Prophet through intercourse with some white friends. The crafty savage was not slow to
                    act. He told his followers that on a certain fixed day, and at a time when the sun was at the height
                    of its power, he would place the same under his feet, and cause darkness to come over the face of
                    the earth. On the day announced the Prophet stood among his fearful band awaiting the hour. The day
                    was wholly clear and without clouds, but at the appointed time the terrified savages saw a disc of
                    blackness gradually pass over the face of the sun; the birds became agitated and flew to cover; the
                    skulking dogs drew near their masters; almost absolute darkness fell on all about; the stars of
                    heaven appeared in the zenith, and in the midst of it all, the Prophet exclaimed: "Did I
                    not testify truly? Behold! Darkness has shrouded the sun."18
                    The account of that day, faithfully set forth by J. Fenni-more Cooper, then a youth, is filled with
                    strange relations of the unnatural appearance of all earthly things; of the sudden awe and fear that
                    came into the minds of all; how women stood near their husbands in silence and children clung to
                    their mothers in terror, and if these were the emotions experienced in a civilized community, made
                    fully aware of the coming event, what must have been the impression produced on the superstitious
                    mind of the savage, wholly unenlightened in the ways of science? From that day, the power of the
                    savage Prophet was secure until the spell of his magic was forever broken by Harrison's
                    soldiers at 
                        Tippecanoe
                    .
            It is not certain at what period in his career the Prophet was tempted by British gold and British
                    overtures. President Jefferson once wrote to John Adams as follows: "I thought there was
                    little danger in his making proselytes from the habits and comforts they had learned from the
                    whites, to the hardships and privations of savagism, and no great harm if he did. But his followers
                    increased until the British thought him worth corrupting, and found him corruptible."17
                    
                  
                     15
                            Eggleston's Tecumseh, 119.
                  
                     16
                            Eggleston's Tecumseh, 121.
               
                     Neither is it certain at what precise period Tecumseh put his
                    brother-priest behind him and assumed the lead. That he had cunningly pretended to have great
                    respect and reverence while the Prophet was practicing on the superstition of the tribes; that he
                    took no steps to stop the inquisitions which were destroying the influence of the chiefs and
                    medicine men; that he stood ready at the opportune moment to push the brother-priest into the
                    back-ground and form a confederacy with himself as the recognized head, will not now admit of
                    controversy.
            In 1806 Tecumseh was about thirty-eight years of age, a finished athlete, a renowned hunter, and of
                    great reputation as a bold and fearless orator. Probably no red man ever born had a better knowledge
                    of the various treaties that had been consummated between the races. "For all those
                    qualities which elevate man far above his race; for talent, tact, skill, bravery as a warrior; for
                    high-minded, honorable and chivalrous bearing as a man; in fine, for all those elements of greatness
                    which place him: a long way above his fellows in savage life, the name and fame of Tecumseh will go
                    down to posterity in the West, as one of the most celebrated of the aborigines of this
                    continent." This is the estimate of Judge Law.18
            
            In his youth he had been under the tutelage of his elder brother Cheeseekau, who taught him
                    "a love for the truth, a contempt of everything mean and sordid and the practice of those
                    cardinal Indian virtues, courage in battle and fortitude in suffering." In one of the early
                    Shawnee raids along the 
                        Ohio
                     he had witnessed the burning of a white man at the stake; the scene was so horrifying
                    to him that he made his associates promise never to torture another prisoner. The spoils of the hunt
                    he divided with the aged and unfortunate. At the time of the Prophet's rise he had
                    already matched his prowess in battle against such men as Simon Kenton and his associates and had
                    proven both his skill as a tactician and his courage as a fighter.
            An illustration of Tecumseh's chivalry toward his foes is pleasingly set forth in
                    Smith's Historical Sketches of 
                            Old Vincennes
                        
               :
            Early in the year 1811, Governor Harrison, with a view to ascertaining the cause of the
                    dissatisfaction of the Prophet, and, if possible, pacify him, deputed one of his most sagacious and
                    trusty advisers with a competent interpreter to hold a council with him and his chiefs, embracing
                    his 
                  
                     17
                            Eggleston's Tecumseh, 114-115.
                  
                     18 John Law, History of 
                                    Old Vincennes
                                , 75.
               
                     brother warrior chief, Tecumseh. It is learned from history
                    that these gentlemen arrived at the village one evening and were received in an apparently friendly
                    manner by the Prophet and assigned a tent for the night with an agreed appointment for a council the
                    next morning. It is said the Prophet's wife was considered a queen among the Indian
                    women, as well as by her husband. Before retiring for the night the interpreter observed an unusual
                    stir among the squaws, and motions made toward their tent, and caught menacing glances and gestures
                    toward them, and so told the ambassador, but he made light of the matter and the
                    interpreter's suspicions that treachery was intended, and when night came on he was soon
                    asleep in peace and quiet. But not so with the vigilant interpreter who kept awake and had his guns
                    near at hand. About midnight a tap was heard at the door and his name, in a Shawnee language, was
                    called. He found Tecumseh at the door. He had called to warn him of impending assassination by the
                    Queen and squaws, who had held a council and determined on their death in spite of the protests of
                    himself and others who told them it would be base treachery to kill messengers of peace who were
                    their visitors. He told the visitors to rise and go with him. They went silently through the village
                    and down into a wooded ravine near the river, where a noise was made as if to call wild turkeys,
                    sounds well recognized by all hunters in early days; an answer was returned, and soon two men
                    appeared with the ambassador's horses which they speedily mounted and rode swiftly away,
                    accompanied by the two guides furnished by Tecumseh, and were soon well on their return trip to 
                        Vincennes
                    .19
            
            No true portrait of this celebrated Indian is in existence. The following graphic description of him,
                    however, is given by Stanley Hatch, who had a personal acquaintance with him in times of peace:
            The general appearance of this remarkable man was uncommonly fine. His height was about five feet
                    nine inches, judging him by my own height when standing close to him, and corroborated by the late
                    Col. John Johnston, for many years Indian agent at 
                        Piqua
                    . His face oval rather than angular; his nose handsome and straight; his mouth
                    beautifully formed, like that of Napoleon I, as represented in his portraits; his eyes clear,
                    transparent hazel, with a mild, pleasant expression when in repose, or in conversation; but when
                    excited in his orations or by the enthusiasm of a conflict, or when in anger, they appeared like
                    balls of fire; his teeth beautifully white, and his complexion more of a light brown or tan than
                    red; his whole tribe as well as their kindred the Ottawaws had light complexions; his arms and hands
                    were finely formed; his limbs straight; he always stood very erect and walked with a brisk, elastic,
                    vigorous step; invariably dressed in Indian tanned buckskin; a perfectly well fitting hunting frock
                    descending to the knee, and over his under clothes of the same material; the usual cape and finish
                    of yellow fringe about the neck; cape, edges 01 the front opening and bottom of the frock; a belt of
                    the same material in which were his side arms (an elegant silver-mounted tomahawk 
                  
                     19 H. M. Smith, Historical Sketches of 
                                    Old Vincennes
                                , 264-265.
               
                     and a knife in a strong leather case); short pantaloons
                    connected with neatly fitting legglns and moccasins with a mantle of the same material thrown over
                    his left shoulder, used as a blanket in camp and as a protection in storms. Such was his dress when
                    I last saw him, on the 17th of August, 1812, on the streets of 
                        Detroit
                    ; mutually exchanging tokens of recognition with former acquaintances in years of peace,
                    and passing on, he, to see that his Indians had all crossed to Maiden, as commanded, and to counsel
                    with his white allies in regard to the next movement of the now really commenced War of 1812. He was
                    then in the prime of life, and presented in his appearance and noble bearing one of the finest
                    looking men I have ever seen.20
            
            The striking circumstances of his birth, the ascendency of his brother, the Prophet; his burning
                    hatred of the white race; his skill as a hunter and valor as a warrior; above all his wonderful
                    eloquence and thorough knowledge of all the Indian treaties of the past, gave Teumseh an influence
                    and authority among the tribes far beyond that of any of the braves or sachems of that day. If at
                    the first his imagination had not dared to scale the heights of power, he later boldly threw aside
                    all disguise, and by his powerful advocacy of a communistic ownership of all the Indian lands by the
                    tribes in common, he aimed a blow both at the ancient authority claimed by the Indian chieftains,
                    and at the validity of every treaty ever negotiated between the two races of men. The sum and
                    substance of Tecumseh's doctrine is thus succinctly stated by Judge Law:
            That the Great Spirit had given the Indians all their lands in common to be held by them as such and
                    not by the various tribes who had settled on portions of it–claiming it as their own.
                    That they were mere squatters having no ''pre-emption right," but
                    holding even that on which they lived as mere ''tenants in common"
                    with all the other tribes. That this mere possession gave them no title to convey the land without
                    the consent of all. That no single tribe had the right to sell, that the power to sell was not
                    vested in their chief, but must be the act of the warriors in council assem of all the tribes, as
                    the land belonged to all–no portion of it to any single tribe.21
            
            If these tenets were to hold, it was clear that any authority claimed by the chiefs to represent
                    their respective tribes in the sale or barter of any of the Indian domain was without foundation;
                    that any treaty not negotiated and ratified by a common council of all the warriors of all the
                    tribes, was null and void; that 
                        Wayne
                    's Treaty of 1795 was nullum pactum; that the claim of the
                    white settlers to 
                  
                     20 Wm. Stanley Hatch, A Chapter of the History of the War
                                of 1812, 113-115.
                  
                     21 John Law, History of 
                                    Vincennes
                                , 81.
               
                     any of the lands north of the 
                        Ohio
                     was without force, and that they were trespassers and mere licensees from the
                    beginning. The doctrine thus enunciated was not entirely new. Tarhe, or the Crane, Chief of the
                    Wyandots, had announced at 
                        Greenville
                    : "I now tell you, that no one in particular can justly claim this ground; it
                    belongs, in common, to us all; no earthly being has an exclusive right to it."22 But the plausible eloquence of Tecumseh, coming at a time when the star of
                    the red man was setting; when every passing day witnessed the encroachment of the white settlers,
                    gave a new ray of hope to the fainting tribes. The warriors, carried away by the dreams and
                    incantations of the Prophet, and sustained by the burning words of a new leader, who promised them a
                    restoration of their former glory, cast aside with contempt all the articles and solemn agreements
                    of the past, and were ready to take up the tomahawk in patriotic defense of their lands and homes.
                    Thus did Tecumseh look forward to the establishment of "a great and permanent
                    confederation–an empire of red men, of which he should be the leader and
                    emperor."
            
               
                  22 John Dillon, History of Indiana, 361.
            
         
         
         
            Reviews and Notes
            
               The Scotch-Irish in America. BY HENRY JONES FORD. 
                        Princeton
                     University Press. 1915. pp. 607.
            IN this single volume Professor Ford gives a good estimate and summary account of
                    that racial strain in the American population known as the "Scotch-Irish." It is
                    the stock that has produced in the South such men as the Calhouns, the Houstons, the Jacksons, and
                    Johnstons, and the Clarks, and in the North and West such men as the McKinleys, the Logans, the
                    McClellans, the Kirkwoods, and the McDonalds and a host of others whose ancestors, through their
                    fighting and pioneer spirit, helped to win the frontier for civilization. The story of the life of
                    these people is told from the time of the Scotch plantation in Ulster in 1609 to the influences they
                    are now exerting on current American life.
            It is only toward the end of his volume that the author notices the controversy over the definition
                    of the term "Scotch-Irish." He quotes the distinctions of John Fiske and Henry
                    Cabot Lodge between the Scotch-Irish and the Irish pure and simple; and he makes his text refer to
                    that "indisputable breed of people in the north of 
                        Ireland
                     introduced there by the Ulster Plantation." They were of the Scottish people
                    who had been living in 
                        Ireland
                    . When they came to America they were called "Irish," but they claimed
                    to be Scotch. While the Ulster Plantation was designed for an English settlement, the English
                    settlers there were soon absorbed by the Scottish element. So the author holds the use of the term
                    "Scotch-Irish" to be not only justifiable but required by accuracy as a
                    description of a distinct race stock.* The English and Scotch
                    settlers in North 
                        Ireland
                     treated the native Irish a good deal as our American frontier settlers treated the
                    Indians. They felt that they had to "defend the borders and fortresses and suppress the
                    Irish." Professor Ford gives us a brief account of the lands and life of these people and
                    of their conflicts and customs in Ulster. He then proceeds to discuss in interesting and effective
                    pages the religious and moral customs of the Scotch-Irish; their relations to the English
                    government, the causes of their migration to America; the centers where they settled  their relation to the Indians, their influence on American independence
                    and American education and of their importance as a factor in American history. They were the first
                    to stand up in the cause of American independence, as shown in their Mecklenburg resolutions in 
                        North Carolina
                    ; and their ministry and people were always foremost and active in promoting the cause
                    of education. The volume shows the Scotch-Irish to be largely the source of American
                    Presbyterianism; among the boldest in extending the western confines of civilization; among the
                    bravest and most effective fighters in the Indian wars; and among the militant patriots in the
                    building of the nation and in the Revolutionary and other wars of the Republic. 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , as the Scotch-Irish center is given due prominence but the expansion of the stock
                    "South and West" relates too exclusively to 
                        Virginia
                    . The work deals chiefly with the work of Presbyterian ministers and the planting of
                    Presbyterian churches and schools, and the descriptive accounts relate largely to persons and
                    localities as types of character and influence. The Reformed and Seceding Presbyterian bodies appear
                    to go unnoticed and the great part played by Scotch-Irish influences and settlements in the Piedmont
                    and up-land regions of the Carolinas and their migrations and settlements beyond the Alleghanies by
                    neighborhoods and congregations are almost entirely neglected. So noticeable is this that the work
                    might not unfairly be entitled "The Scotch-Irish in America on the Middle and North
                    Atlantic Sea Board."
            The subject of the volume is not easy for comprehensive treatment. Within its scope it is a valuable
                    and desirable study, of interest to all who care for American history and especially to all
                    Americans of Scotch-Irish stock. The Appendix of the volume contains a full list of authorities, a
                    list of the "Scottish Undertakers" in Ulster, the "Mecklenburg
                    Resolves" and other material of value. The author has placed thousands of Americans under
                    obligations to him for this work.
            
               
                  1 The Scotch-Irish in 
                            Ireland
                         usually speak of themselves as "Ulster Scots." They are usually
                        of the Presbyterian faith. The fullest and best account of the history and achievements of the
                        Scotch-Irish in their Irish home is to be found in Rev. James B. Woodburn's volume on
                            The Ulster Scot (1913?). Mr. Woodburn is a scholarly Presbyterian Minister
                        in Castle Rock, 
                            Ireland
                        . See also James A. Woodburn's Scotch-Irish Presbyterians in 
                                Monroe County
                            , Indiana, for a tracing of the connection between the Scotch-Irish in
                        Ulster to one of their typical frontier settlements in western America.
            
            J. A. W.
         
         
         
            
               Circuit Rider Days in Indiana, BY WILLIAM
                        WARREN SWEET, Professor of History in Depauw University.
                    W. K. Stewart Co., 
                        Indianapolis
                    , pp. 344.
            SOME years ago Dr. Sweet came into possession of the official records of the old
                    Indiana Conference. The first session of this conference met at 
                        New Albany
                    , October 17, 1832, with eighteen circuit riders present and Bishop Joshua Soule in the
                    chair. The last session was held at 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , October 18, 1843, with Bishop James O. Andrew presiding and Matthew Simpson secretary.
                    There were ninety-three preachers ready to answer the first roll call. The minutes published by Dr.
                    Sweet thus cover a period of eleven years. The great problem of the church during this period was
                    organization. As the settlements spread to the north the church had to gather its adherents into
                    classes, circuits, and districts. In the first conference there were five districts, one being
                    missionary. Eleven years later there were sixteen districts. This period of remarkable growth is
                    covered by the book under review. Besides the ordinary work of the church its principal activities
                    during the period were the organization of Sunday schools, furnishing Bibles to the settlers,
                    publishing tracts and newspapers and missionary work. It was an endless task to finance the work.
                    Not only must the working circuit riders be supplied but money had to be raised for missions,
                    suppression of vice, negro colonization, aid of superannuated preachers and widows, and various
                    other purposes, not the least of which was education. Covering this period as it does, these minutes
                    furnish one of the best sources for early Indiana history. In publishing them Dr. Sweet has put all
                    the people of Indiana in his debt and especially is this true of the Methodists.
            The first ninety pages of the book are occupied with a historical introduction in which the history
                    of the church is brought down to 1832. In the preparation of this Dr. Sweet has had the advantage of
                    the large collection of material in Depauw University Library including a complete file of the Western Christian Advocate. The history of the pioneer Methodist church in Indiana
                    is the story of a valiant struggle. Preparing this has been a labor of love for Dr. Sweet. He has
                    done it well.
         
         
         
            
               History of the 
                            Illinois
                         Central Railroad to 1870. BY HOWARD GRAY BROWNSON, Ph.D., sometime fellow in economics, University
                    of 
                        Illinois
                    . University of 
                        Illinois
                     Studies in the Social Science, Vol IV, Nos. 3 and 4. 
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                    , 1915. 182 p. $1.25.
            ONE of the most promising tendencies in the study of history in the American
                    colleges is the devotion of more and more time to local topics, especially the history of those
                    events or institutions whose influences are still with us. The 
                        Illinois
                     Central Railroad has played a leading part in the material and political, and perhaps
                    in the social, development of 
                        Illinois
                    . Dr. Brownson has performed a work of permanent social and political value in thus
                    historically acquainting the people of 
                        Illinois
                     with their greatest railway. The 
                        Illinois
                     Central is the first of the land-grant railroads and when the history of the railroads
                    of the 
                        United States
                     is written the author will find ready to hand an adequate history of this one.
            Dr. Brownson has divided his thesis into six chapters. The first deals with "
                        Illinois
                     in 1850" in which he gives an economic review of the State; the second chapter
                    deals with "The Land Grant and the Charter." The State was confronted at the time
                    with a peculiar situation. It had wasted considerable resources in attempting to carry out a system
                    of Internal Improvements by the State. There was a strong party demanding that the State also use
                    this land grant itself in building a State road, but it was decided to turn the grant over to a
                    private corporation which successfully built the road. The third chapter describes the building of
                    the charter lines; the fourth chapter deals with the "Development of the System;"
                    the fifth chapter takes up the question of "Traffic, 1857-1870." This chapter
                    forms an excellent economic history of the period. When the road was projected most of the produce
                    was marketed at 
                        New Orleans
                    , hence it was intended to make the main terminal at 
                        Cairo
                    . The road soon had to face about and prepare to carry its freight to 
                        Chicago
                    . The last chapter deals with the "Finances and Financing of the
                    Road." The subject is thus far more than merely local. The author has used the official
                    reports and other contemporary sources. It is a very valuable and readable contribution.
            L. E.
         
         
         
            
               Indiana, A Social and Economic Survey. BY FRANCES DOAN STREIGHTOFF, A. M., and FRANK HATCH STREIGHTOFF, Ph.D., Professor of
                    Economics in Depauw University. With a Chapter on Charities and Correction by CECIL CLARE NORTH, Ph.D., Professor of Sociology in
                    Depauw University. 
                        Indianapolis
                    : W. K. Stewart Company, 1916, pp. 261.
            THE following from the preface indicates the nature of the volume: "In
                    these pages there will be found a concise description of Indiana as she is and of the problems she
                    faces." The twelve chapter headings are as follows: Physical Basis; Trees; Agriculture;
                    Manufactures; Transportation; Labor; Labor Legislation; Government; Finances; Constitution;
                    Charities and Correction; Education. These topics are treated from the standpoint of the economist
                    and not from that of history or literature. The authors tell their story pointedly and without
                    praise or blame. Enough of the history of each subject is given to show the attitude of the people
                    and the present situation. The authors have depended for their data almost exclusively on official
                    documents of the State and 
                        United States
                    , using the 
                        United States
                     Census very freely. There are eight State maps showing the distribution of various
                    products. The book furnishes a valuable complement to the many State histories now being put on the
                    market.
         
         
            
               Centennial History of Indiana for Schools and for Teachers'
                    Institutes. BY HUBERT M. SKINNER,
                    Ph.D. Former Assistant Superintendent of Public Instruction of Indiana, Founder of Lincoln Day
                    Observances by Schools and Clubs. 
                        Chicago
                    : Atkinson, Mentzer and Company, 1916, pp. 102.
            THIS is a brief summary of the State's history. The author divides his
                    subject into six parts or, as he calls them, periods. These are the "Aboriginal,"
                    "French Colonial," "British Colonial,"
                    "Revolutionary," "Territorial," and
                    "Statehood" periods. These periods are not considered as of equal importance. The
                    last one occupies one third of the book. The book opens with the poem, "Song of the Old Sac
                    Trail," by the author, and closes with a "School Song of Indiana," by the
                    author. The volume is necessarily a brief summary of the main features of our State history. Too
                    large a portion, sixty-three out of one hundred pages, is devoted to the period before 1816. The
                    last half century is disposed of in six  pages. Aside from the
                    inclusion of several questionable incidents, such as the bravado of Captain Helm at 
                        Vincennes
                     and the ruse of displaying flags and counter-marching by which Clark is said to have
                    deceived Colonel Hamilton, a careful critical treatment has been preserved. The general tone of the
                    book is, as it should be, one of praise for the men and women who have made our State. It is a
                    readable book and should meet with a hearty reception by Indianians.
         
         
            
               Forms of City Government. BY FRANK G. BATES, Ph.D. Associate Professor of Political Science, Indiana University, Indiana
                    Bureau of Legislative Information, Bulletin No. 5. 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1916, pp. 27.
            Tins is a pamphlet on the problems of city government. The Federal, Commission, and
                    Commission-Manager plans are described. The author is not interested in any propaganda and does not
                    specifically advocate any plan of city government. His object is to set forth plainly and accurately
                    the features of each plan and so far as possible how each has succeeded where tried. Cities are
                    named where each plan is in operation so that any one interested may secure further information. A
                    select bibliography is given.
         
         
            
               Indiana Centennial Patriotic Arbor and Bird Day Manual. BY
                        ELIJAH A. GLADDEN, Secretary Indiana State Board of
                    Forestry. 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1916, p. 52.
            THIS is a contribution of the State Board of Forestry toward the celebration of
                    the Centennial. The proclamations of the governor, a number of selections from Woodrow Wilson,
                    Lincoln, Jefferson, Hale, Patrick Henry, Webster, Scott, and others, are included. A list of the
                    native trees of the State is given, a chapter on the care of trees, one on the appreciation of
                    forests, and a number of poems such as the "Old Apple Tree," "When the
                    Green Gits Back in the Trees." It is a beautiful little pamphlet, well illustrated.
         
         
            
               History of Education in 
                            Iowa
                        . BY CLARENCE RAY AURNER, Ph.D., 
                        Iowa
                     State Historical Society. 
                        Iowa City
                    , 1916. Vols. III and IV. pp. xii+464; xi+471.
            IN volume III Dr. Aurner takes up the secondary schools. In this field there was a
                    noticeable lack of unity or system. This fact  makes it
                    impossible to unify the volume as was done in the preceding and succeeding volumes. The author was
                    fortunate in having practically all the source material for his work in the library of the State
                    Historical Society. A glance at the chapter headings will give one the best idea of the scope of the
                    volume. Part I deals with the incorporated academies. The earliest of these was at 
                        Dubuque
                     in 1838. These were separately incorporated and each pursued its independent course.
                    The author singles out as the best example of these the "
                        Denmark
                     Academy." Part II deals with the unincorporated academies. These were
                    generally private ventures. There were separate schools for boys and girls. In the later period of
                    the unincorporated academies, towns and other communities organized public schools similar to the
                    private ones. Part III deals with the special schools, the private normals and business colleges.
                    These seem to have been the forerunners of the professional schools. Part IV deals with secondary
                    schools under sectarian domination. Part V is devoted to the public high school. The different
                    phases of this movement are discussed under the county high school, the township high school, and
                    the district high school. There are eight chapters to this part and it is perhaps the most
                    satisfactory division of the volume. Part VI is devoted entirely to a historical discussion of the
                    courses of study.
            Volume IV takes up the history of the three State institutions for higher learning; the State
                    University at 
                        Iowa City
                    , the State College of Agriculture and Mechanical Arts at 
                        Ames
                     and the State Teachers College at 
                        Cedar Falls
                    . The volume contains a brief history of each of these institutions and offers little
                    ground for comment by the reviewer. The problems of the schools are indicated but for the most part
                    the author has been content to trace the growth of the institutions entirely from the historical
                    standpoint. The State is to be congratulated on the character of the work so far published.
         
         
            
               My Story of the Civil War and Underground Railroad. BY M. B.
                        BUTLER, First Lieutenant Co. A, 44th Indiana. The United Brethren Publishing
                    Company, 
                        Huntington
                    , Ind. pp. 390.
            THIS is a simple straightforward story, full of conversation and color. The writer
                    experienced the usual vicissitudes of the soldier's life and has attempted to tell them
                    in detail. The author was a native of 
                        Vermont
                    , born February 15, 1834. Practically all of his life was spent at his farm home in 
                        Salem
                     township, 
                        Steuben county
                    ,  where he died June 17, 1914. His book was not
                    published until after his death.
         
         
            
               The New Regime, 1765-1767. Collections of the 
                            Illinois
                         State Historical Society, Volume XI; British Series, Volume II. Edited with
                    Introduction and notes by CLARENCE WALWORTH ALVORD University of 
                        Illinois
                    , and CLARENCE EDWIN CARTER,
                    Miami University. 
                        Illinois
                     State Historical Library, 
                        Springfield
                    . pp. xxviii+700.
            THIS is a companion volume to the Critical Period which appeared
                    last year. The present volume contains documents covering the period from February, 1765, to July,
                    1767. The same general plan of the series has been preserved. A twenty-eight page Introduction gives
                    the historical setting after which follow without individual introduction the various papers. Ample
                    footnotes explain the text. The papers are divided into ten chapters as follows: "George
                    Croghan's Journal, Feb. 28-Oct. 8, 1865;" "Occupation of Fort de
                    Chartres, July 24-Nov. 16, 1765;" "The Completion of the Occupation, Dec. 13,
                    1765-April 6, 1766;" "Plans for a Colony, March 9-May 10, 1766;"
                    "Conflicting Plans, May 10-June 15, 1766;" "The Rendezvous at the 
                        Illinois
                    , June 18-July 18, 1766;" "The Trade and Colonial Plans Progress, July
                    30-Oct. 11, 1766;" "The Value of the 
                        Illinois Country
                    , Nov. 21, 1766-Feb. 24, 1767;" "Discussion of the Indian Trade, March
                    1-July 15, 1767." The documents relate principally to the transfer of government at Fort
                    Chartres, the projected colony at the 
                        Illinois
                    , and the trade of the country. They include journals of such men as George Croghan,
                    correspondence of Sir William Johnson, William Franklin, Gage, Shelburne, Haldi-mand, Conway, and
                    the traders Baynton, Wharton and Morgan, official proclamations and instructions, plans for a
                    colony, petitions for land grants, and official records. As with the other volumes the work seems to
                    be carefully and accurately done, though, of course, the reviewer has not the means at hand to test
                    their accuracy.
         
         
            
               Centennial History of 
                            Washington County
                        , Indiana, Its People, Industries and Institutions. By WARDER W. STEVENS. B. F. Bowen and Company, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1916, pp. 1060.
            MR. STEVENS was editor of the 
                        Salem
                    
                    Democrat for many years, during which time he took an especial interest in
                    collecting material  on the county history. During those years
                    many stories and much biographical data were published in his paper. He also got together one of the
                    best collections of pioneer relics in the State. Mr. Stevens is a graduate of Indiana University,
                    class of 1867, a pioneer by instinct, and in sympathy with pioneer customs and characteristics. All
                    these qualities have enabled him to prepare a good history. This is especially true of those parts
                    of the book which treat of the lives of the early settlers. This part of his work and that which
                    deals with pioneer biography are better than those which deal with institutional development.
                    Whatever may be its historical value, the traditional or personal side of history will doubtless
                    always remain most interesting and in this field Mr. Stevens is best. Altogether it is a good resume
                    of the county history.
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Perry County
                        , A History. By THOMAS JAMES
                    DE LA HUNT. The W. K. Stewart Company, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1916, pp. 359.
            THIS is not an ordinary county history, prepared by a publishing house and sold on
                    subscription. It has no subscribers and consequently no formal biographies. The author's
                    father, mother, and his maternal grandparents were for-two-thirds of a century in the front rank of
                    Perry county citizens. Perhaps no one in his day had a wider circle of friends and acquaintances
                    than the author's grandfather, Joshua Huckaby. Mr. De la Hunt, the author, is a graduate
                    of the University of the South, a man of wide culture and fine literary ability. Writing this
                    history has been a pleasant pastime with him for perhaps a score of years. He is acquainted with the
                    old folks and the young folks; every old house, old farm, and old church in the county, especially
                    in the southern half, has a personal relation. Mr. De la Hunt has not stopped with the artistic side
                    of his work, nor yet with the personal. Both these have been held firlmy in hand by the demands of
                    history. No clue has been too difficult nor too slight to prevent his making an effort to reach the
                    truth at the end, and when he fails, as all investigators must at times, he frankly says so. The
                    traditions of our people have been handled in a friendly way, but when historical proof failed we
                    are told so and exactly at what point. The story of Robert Fulton's residence in the
                    county, the shipwreck of 
                        Lafayette
                    , the Lincoln tradition, are all treated satisfactorily. The author had collected a
                    large amount of historical material relating to his county, among  this being a file of newspapers reaching back to the middle of the last century. Perry county
                    offered an attractive field for the historian. Its early settlers along the river from Rono to 
                        Troy
                     were of the picturesque squatter type from 
                        Kentucky
                     interspersed with frequent scions of the good old 
                        Virginia
                     families. Among these came adventurers from 
                        New England
                     interested in the natural resources, coal, clay, etc., and bringing with them the
                    thrift and genius of the Yankees; then came capitalists with visions of wealth through a union of
                    the cotton of the south and the fuel and labor of the north by means of the noble river as the
                    highway between. Later, just in time to feel the shock of the Civil War, came the Swiss and
                    established 
                        Tell City
                    . The French located at Leopold in the heart of the county. In the north central part
                    was a colony straight from Erin, all good honest folk. The county sent men to the War of 1812, the
                    Mexican War and the Civil War. During the latter war armed enemies were not unknown in its border.
                    All these incidents have given the author an opportunity to write an interesting volume. No one who
                    reads all or any chapter of Mr. De la Hunt's book will fail to realize that he has done
                    his work satisfactorily.
         
         
            
               Early Negro Deportation Projects. By H. N. SHERWOOD, Ph. D.
                    Reprinted from the Mississippi Valley Historical Review II, March, 1916.
            THIS is a part of Dr. Sherwood's doctorate thesis. The author discusses
                    the different colonial associations organized to assist the early freed or emancipated negroes.
                    There were plans to colonize them in the Northwest, others such as Ferdinando Fairfax proposed
                    founding a foreign colony under the protection of the 
                        United States
                    . The sentiment finally culminated in the colony of 
                        Liberia
                    . It is an interesting monograph though entirely without the field of Indiana
                History.
         
         
            THE TIPTON COUNTY CENTENNIAL COMMITTEE as a part of its celebration has issued a small booklet
                    giving a biography of General John Tipton. Besides this the booklet contains a brief account of the
                    settling of 
                        Tipton county
                    . It was prepared by Ebert Allison, for use in the schools. It is a commendable way to
                    set the main facts of local history before the school children. The Tipton county committee is
                    rightly laying most stress on the dissemination of local History among the citizens of the county.
            
            JAMES W. SANSBERRY, of 
                        Madison county
                    , has issued a beautiful little pamphlet entitled Pioneer Recollections of
                        Early Indiana. It is a mere sketch of nine pages devoted to the daily life of the pioneers
                    of early 
                        Madison county
                    . It is very well written, and a worthy tribute.
            THE NATIONAL HIGHWAYS COMMISSION of 
                        Washington
                    , 
                        D. C
                    , has recently prepared a series of maps showing the roads which it is interested in.
                    Several of these roads cross Indiana. The "National Parks Transcontinental"
                    crosses the State by way of 
                  Fort Wayne, South Bend
                and 
                        Hammond
                    ; the "Dixie" by way of 
                  South
                        Bend, Indianapolis
               , and 
                        New Albany
                     and from 
                        Covington
                     through 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                        Richmond
                    ; the "International Pavedway" from 
                        Detroit
                     to 
                        Laredo
                     crosses Indiana by 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , 
                        Bluffton
                    , 
                        Marion
                    , 
                        Kokomo
                     and 
                        Lafayette
                    , with a branch from 
                        South Bend
                     to 
                        Lafayette
                    ; the "
                        Pike
                    's Peak" crosses by way-of 
                  Richmond, Indianapolis
                and
                    Montezuma; the "Old Trails Road" crosses by the National Road from 
                        Richmond
                     to 
                        Terre Haute
                    ; the "Midland" uses the old 
                        Vincennes
                    -
                        New Albany
                     pike; the "Lincoln Highway" follows the "National
                    Parks" road from Fort Wrayne to 
                        Valparaiso
                    , then leaves the state by way of 
                        Chicago
                     Heights. The Commission also sends out a colored map, showing the improved roads in
                    Indiana.
            A SERIES of postcards with pictures of persons and places noted in Indiana has
                    recently been issued by Max Hyman, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Some of the cards contain rare maps. They are printed on a good grade of paper and
                    make an excellent appearance. They would be especially helpful to teachers.
            THE
                    Catholic Historical Review commenced its second volume with the April number. The.
                    articles of most interest to Indiana readers are "The Lost Province of Quivira"
                    and "The Attitude of 
                        Spain
                     During the American Revolution." Neither deals directly with any phase of
                    State history.
            THE
                    
                  
                            Tennessee
                         Historical Magazine for March, 1916, has as its leading article a discussion
                    of the "Public School System of 
                        Tennessee
                     from 1834 to 1860," by A. P. Whitaker. The larger part of the number is
                    occupied with the "Diaries of S. H. Loughlin," 1840-1843.
            
            THE
                    
                  
                            Iowa
                         Journal of History and Politics for April contains an article by Thomas Teakle
                    on "The Romance of 
                        Iowa
                     History," a biography of Samuel R. Thurston, by Hiram F. White. Miss Ruth
                    Gallaher continues her article on "Indian Agents."
            THE
                    Indiana University Alumni Quarterly for April is book size. Dr.
                    Woodburn's "Sketches from the University's History" is the
                    leading article. All alumni enjoy these, but few realize when reading the professor's
                    fluent English the amount of hard "digging" he has to do to furnish the data used.
                    The bulk of the magazine is made of Foundation Day reports.
            THE
                    White County Democrat of May 5, 1916, has a brief but accurate biography of Gen.
                    Robert H. Milroy, the fifth circuit judge to preside of the circuit court of White county. This
                    biography is one of a series including all the judges who have served in that capacity. These
                    biographies have been prepared by Attorney W. H. Hamelle, of 
                        Monticello
                    . Mr. Hamelle has recently written a history of White county and is now county manager
                    of the centennial celebration.
            THE
                    
                  
                            Columbus
                         Evening Journal, March 22, 1916, has a page map of Indiana showing the
                    improved roads. The map. was copyrighted by the B. F. Goodrich Company.
            THE ninth annual meeting of the Mississippi Valley Historical
                    Association was held April 27, 28, 29, at 
                  Nashville,
                            Tennessee
               .
            THE following members were elected at the meeting of the executive committee of
                    Indiana Historical Society, April 15, 1916: J. A. Abell, A. D. Babcock, Mary C. Burhans, Mary E.
                    Cox, Mrs. Elizabeth Mackenzie Fletcher (Mrs. Horace Hines Fletcher), Simpson A. Frazier, A. F.
                    Knotts, Mrs. M. Levering, W. S. McMasters, John Overmyer, E. H. Richardson, Archibald Shaw, E. W.
                    Swarth-out, George R. Wilson. At same meeting the resignation was reported and accepted of Mrs.
                    Roscoe O. Hawkins.
            LOUISIANA RECORDS
            
            There has been some hope among Indiana historians that records at 
                        New Orleans
                     might throw some light on the early settlements in 
                    Indiana. The following quotation from a letter from William Beer, librarian of the Howard Memorial
                    Library of 
                        New Orleans
                    , will give some idea of the possibility of aid in that direction:
            
                    
                  
                     
                        I can offer you little hope from descendants of the early French pioneers who may
                                    live in 
                                        New Orleans
                                    , the source from which something is to be had, is in a wonderful
                                    collection of documents now in the Cabildo, the property of the State, which has
                                    lain for 150 years only imperfectly examined. The pioneer examiner stated that they
                                    were only notarial records; the next examiner found some family documents, but said
                                    they were not of much account any way. They were in such disorder that it was not
                                    even detected that the boxes bore inscriptions which it has been discovered gives
                                    the dates approximately of the documents contained therein.
                        About 18 months ago there came to the city a Mr. Price, a man whose education had
                                    fitted him marvelously to calendar these documents. He had been engaged with
                                    Thwaites editing the Jesuit Relations. The 
                                        Louisiana
                                     Historical Society had very small funds, but it managed with the
                                    assistance of some wealthy friends to scrape up $50.00 a month which,
                                    while not adequate remuneration for such exceptional work, was at all events far
                                    more than Mr. Price had been earning for some time. Unfortunately the society was
                                    unable to increase the remuneration, and Mr. Price, considering it undignified to do
                                    the work for the sum available, gave it up and left the city. He had fortunately
                                    thoroughly examined at least 20 of the boxes at an average cost, I think, of
                                    $70.00 a box, and there are about 100. The resources of the society
                                    unassisted would provide a maximum of $400 a year for the purpose, so it
                                    is evident that the work had to come to a standstill. These twenty boxes may be seen
                                    through his calendaring to consist largely of papers used before the Conseil General
                                    as a judicial body. They run from about 1702 before its creation to 1780 after its
                                    development in the Cabildo.
                     
                  
               
                
            THE TIPPECANOE RIVER"chapter of the
                    D. A. R. at Bourbon celebrated the centennial by gathering together at the home of Charles W. Keller
                    an assortment of relics and other articles of the community, over a century old. The exhibit filled
                    the large house. The list of articles covered the whole range of property and is vastly too long to
                    be mentioned in detail here. A full account appears in the Bourbon Indiana
                    News-Mirror of March 9, 1916.
            DABNEY FAMILY
            
            The following letter from Dr. E. B. Dabney, of 
                  Atlanta, Mo.
               , is printed in
                    the hope that it will reach other members of the family in Indiana:
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        DEAR SIR:
                        Yours of 23rd received and beg to state that I am unable to give the county of or
                                    exact date that William or Benjamin or Samuel Dabney located in Indiana. It has been
                                    handed down to our family that all the Dabneys in the 
                                        United States
                                     are descendants of three brothers who emigrated from 
                                        France
                                     and settled in this country about 1685, one in the East, the other two
                                    in 
                                        Virginia
                                    . My great grandfather, Nathan Dabney, Sr., left 
                                        Bedford county
                                    , 
                                        Virginia
                                    , about 1810 and emigrated to southern 
                                        Kentucky
                                    , later on, about 1830, moving to Macon county, 
                                        Missouri
                                    . It is said he had two brothers, William and Benjamin, who moved to
                                    Indiana about the time he left 
                                        Virginia
                                    . If we can find any Dabneys in Indiana they are liable to be closely
                                    related to our family. Thanking you for favors extended, I remain,
                        
                                    Yours fraternally,
                                    E. B. DABNEY
                           
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Atlanta
                                 , 
                                    Macon county
                                 , 
                                    Missouri
                                 .
                           
                                    February 24, 1916.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            Minor Notices
            THE GAME
                    OF GANDER PULLING.
            (By an Octogenarian.)
            [Descriptions of this same amusement may be found in previous numbers of the INDIANA MAGAZINE
                    OF HISTORY. This description comes from 
                        Spencer county
                     and its significance lies in that it showa the game was widespread in early
                    Indiana.–Ed.]
            AMONG the amusements in which our ancestors of a hundred years or more ago
                    indulged occasionally was one called "Gander Pulling," which, though it may be
                    called cruel, was not such as involved human beings, as only a poor gander lost his life. The game
                    consisted in the effort to pull off the gander's head, the winner to get a small sum of
                    money, put up for the occasion. The gander's neck was stripped of feathers and thoroughly
                    greased. Then the poor bird was tied by his feet to the lower limb of a tree, just high enough to be
                    reached by a man on horseback. The judges, or umpires, were selected from among the bystanders, to
                    make the award, and to see that the game was played fairly. The branch to which the bird was hung
                    had to be as long, strong and springy as possible, and every contestant had to ride without a
                    saddle, with his horse at a gallop. Some twenty or thirty feet from the bird, a man was stationed on
                    each side of the track, armed with a long switch, whose business it was to see that no rider should
                    check the speed of his horse as he came near the bird. Imagine the frightened gander swinging
                    wildly, and fanning his wings in mid-air in his efforts to escape, and one can easily see that a
                    rider would have quite as many chances to miss the bird's neck entirely, as to grasp it.
                    Every such failure, of course, provoked the merriment of the bystanders. Sometimes, too, a rider
                    would lose his balance and fall from his horse because he hung to the gander too long, and thus in
                    addition to some bruises, he lost his place in the game, which was mirth provoking, also for the
                    crowd. Finally some tall fellow with one hand holding to the horse's mane and leaning
                    forward as far as possible, would seize  the poor
                    bird's head, giving it a sudden twist would break its neck, and then probably the man who
                    followed would be able to take off the bird's head. It was not so much a contest for the
                    purse, as for the rollicking fun that resulted, and as to cruelty, it was innocence itself, compared
                    to a modern game of football.
            The foregoing sketch is made up from descriptions given by ancestors and their friends during the
                    writer's boyhood days [in 
                        Spencer county
                    ], and is new to the younger generation, in most particulars.
         
         
            ISSAC MCCOY
            
            THE following letter concerning Rev. Isaac McCoy, a pioneer missionary among
                    Indiana Indians, is of interest:
            
                    
                  
                     
                        "I am a grand-daughter of Rev. Isaac McCoy and great-granddaughter of Mrs.
                                    Charles Polk, who was captured by Indians at Kinchelo Station, 
                                        Kentucky
                                    .
                        "My grandfather McCoy died when I was six years old, but I remember him,
                                    especially his dignity and his gentleness. We, his descendants here, regard him as a
                                    truly great man. I have only one of his books, The History of Indiana Missions. His
                                    other works are in a vault in the State Capitol of 
                                        Kansas
                                    , which vault was built especially to preserve them. He was never a
                                    resident of 
                                        Kansas
                                    , only sojourning there for a brief period while establishing a mission
                                    for the Indians, but the State Historical Society asked for the privilege of keeping
                                    the books and my father consented.
                        "Did you know that my grandfather, Isaac McCoy, named a stream near 
                                        Elkhart
                                    , Indiana, 'Christiana,' for his wife? and that a
                                    lake, mills, launch and a club all bear this name? He wrote when he called this
                                    hitherto unnamed stream for his wife, that the clear, placid, cheery little brook
                                    made him think of her, so he deemed it a fitting title."
                        
                                    NELLIE MCCOY HARRIS
                           ,
                                    
                              3000A Olive Street, 
                                    Kansas City, Mo.
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
            GEN. WILLIAM HENRY HARRISON BEADLE
            
            GENERAL BEADLE died at 
                  Los
                            Angeles, California
               , Nov.
                    13, 1915. He was a member of a large pioneer family of Parke county. He graduated from the
                    University of 
                        Michigan
                     in 1861. He entered the war as a private in the 31st Indiana and came out a brigadier
                    general in the Ninth Corps. After the war he studied  law. Gen.
                    Grant appointed him surveyor general of Dakota, and four years later superintendent of schools. He
                    served in the legislature of South Dakota, where he was instrumental in adopting the Indiana school
                    system for that state. For twenty years he was president of the South Dakota Normal School at 
                        Madison
                    . Four years ago he resigned and retired from active work. There is a good biography of
                    him in the 
                        Rockville
                     Republican of Nov. 17, 1915.
         
         
            THAD BUTLER.
            THAD BUTLER, "dean of Wabash
                    Valley Editors," died at his home in 
                        Huntington
                    , Dec. 7, 1915. He was born at 
                        Lagrange
                    , Indiana, Nov.' 19, 1846. His mother was a teacher and gave her son a good
                    education. He spent his life from boyhood in newspaper offices. He set the first line of type for
                    the Kendallville Standard in 1863. Later he worked on, edited or owned papers at 
                  Wabash, Lafayette
               ,
                            
                  Fort Wayne, Cleveland
               , 
                        Andrews
                    , and 
                        Huntington
                    . An excellent biography of Air. Butler, prepared by himself some years ago, is given in
                    the 
                        Huntington
                     Press, December 8, 1915.
         
         
            DANIEL MCDONALD
            
            DANIEL MCDONALD, who was the oldest living
                    past grand master of Indiana Masons, for thirty years editor of the 
                        Plymouth
                     Democrat and an author of note on Masonic subjects, died January 10 in 
                        Chicago
                    , where for the past two years he had been living with his son Louis. He was 83 years
                    old. Mr. McDonald was the thirtieth Grand Master of the Indiana Grand Lodge of Masons, serving at
                    the head of the body in 1875-76. He was twice in the State Legislature, once in 1869 and again in
                    1905. He was a delegate to the Democratic National Convention in 1876 and in 1884, and was the
                    Democratic candidate for Congress in his district in 1880. He sold his interest in the 
                        Plymouth
                     Democrat in 1902 and retired from active business. Mr. McDonald wrote a history of
                    Freemasonry in Indiana. He also was one of the editors of a compendium of Masonic history in the 
                        United States
                    . He was born near 
                        Connersville
                    , Ind., May 6, 1833.
         
         
         
            CHARLES T. AKIN
            
            CHARLES T. AKIN, age sixty- seven, formerly state senator from
                    Sullivan county and a banker, died December 16, 1915, in 
                        Carlisle
                    . Mr. Akin was born at 
                        Carlisle
                     on October 27, 1848. His parents were Ransom W. and Sarah R. Sedgwick Akin. His
                    education was obtained in the 
                        Carlisle
                     public schools and at the Union Christian College at 
                        Merom
                    , Ind. He began clerking in his father's general merchandise store when he
                    was fifteen years old, afterward becoming a partner with his father and a brother, J. T. Akin. He
                    owned the business at his death and also was a large land owner. In politics, Mr. Akin was a
                    Democrat. He formerly was a member of the 
                        Carlisle
                     school board and was elected to the Indiana house of representatives for the sessions
                    1880-1882. In 1891-1893 he was state senator, representing Sullivan and 
                        Greene
                     counties. Mr. Akin was a member of the special committee which framed the first salary
                    bill for the payment of county officers. He also was on the finance committee for the State Tax
                    Bill.
         
      
   
