
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 99, Issue 3, pages 198-301. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:99+issue:3+year:2003&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Editor's Note
            
                    Commemorating the 
                            Louisiana
                         Purchase
                
            Two hundred years ago, Emperor Napoleon negotiated the sale of France's 
                        Louisiana
                     colony to the United States. With the purchase complete, the United States"
                    western frontier suddenly became the "old" west. No longer the western political
                    extent of the young nation, the Northwest Territory (including land that would soon become Indiana)
                    evolved as a middle ground between established eastern population and trade centers and the still
                    vaguely recognized trans-
                        Mississippi
                     frontier.
            Over the coming year, Americans will rediscover the importance of the 
                        Louisiana
                     Purchase territory and its best-known explorers, Meriwether Lewis and William Clark,
                    through a variety of events, exhibitions, and publications. This year from October 14-26, the
                    federally authorized National Council of the Lewis and Clark Bicentennial will hold its second
                    "signature" event at the Falls of the 
                        Ohio
                     river, where the two men launched their Corps of Discovery. For more about the events
                    taking place in Clarksville, Indiana, and 
                  Louisville, Kentucky
               , contact:
                    Falls of the 
                        Ohio
                     Lewis and Clark Bicentennial Committee, PO Box 2246, 
                        Louisville
                    , KY 40201 (phone 502-292-0059; or on the web at
                    <www.fallsoftheohio.org/lewisandclark>).
            The IMH will also take notice of the anniversary. In this issue, National Council
                    president Robert Archibald reflects on the original expedition and on its meanings for later
                    generations, up to and including our own. Elsewhere, John Glenn turns his annual "Indiana
                    Archives" feature to a consideration of archival sources for Indiana's territorial
                    period—the time during which these dramatic political/geographic changes were taking
                    place. In coming issues, the IMH will also feature review essays of important new
                    books about the purchase and about Lewis and Clark. By considering this episode in American history,
                    we mark its influences upon Indiana, the Midwest, and the nation.
            
                    
                  IMH Staff Changes
                
            This issue marks the last for the IMH's Associate Editor, Lana Ruegamer,
                    who retired in July. Ruegamer has led a distinguished career as scholar, teacher, and editor at
                    Indiana University and the Indiana Historical Society. The magazine—and all readers of
                    Indiana history—have been well served by her keen editorial eye, high scholarly
                    standards, and tireless devotion to her work.
            Taking on the role of Associate Editor is Dawn Bakken. Bakken comes to the post uniquely well
                    prepared; in addition to her doctorate in Religious Studies and American Studies and her thorough
                    knowledge of Indiana history, she brings with her the experience gained from many years as editorial
                    assistant for the IMH.
            
         
         
         
            Civil War Memories and "Pardnership Forgittin'," 1865–1913
            
                    James H. Madison
                    ∗
                
            
                    Author's Note What I Didn"t See at 
                            Shiloh
                        : Musings on the Civil War
                
            At 
                        Shiloh
                     I had an epiphany. It was a spring day in April 2000, and the rain was gentle, not
                    coming in torrents as it had in April 1862. I walked around the Bloody Pond, looked over the
                    Hornet's Nest, and stood at the peach orchard. I tried, as tourists do at such sacred
                    sites, to imagine what it had been like in that other April. I walked the cemetery rows and looked
                    for Indiana's dead. But the epiphany came as I read and photographed the Indiana regimental
                    and unit monuments. 
                        Shiloh
                    's survivors had placed these massive limestone memory aids there decades after
                    the battle. "Sermons in stone," Shakespeare called such monuments. But what was
                    the sermon those Hoosier veterans were preaching to me? What did they want me to remember about
                            
                  Shiloh, Gettysburg
               , Chickamauga, and all the other battles? And were there
                    other sermons not carved in stone? What didn"t I see at 
                        Shiloh
                    ?
            The Civil War has been with me as long as I can recall. I grew up twenty miles from 
                        Gettysburg
                     and attended college in that town during the years of the Civil War centennial. I
                    confess to unchaperoned carousing on the battlefield as well as to more academic study of it. Not
                    fully aware of the privilege at the time, I was fortunate to have met Bruce Catton and John Hope
                    Franklin, historians who became models for an impressionable history major. I went in different
                    directions in graduate school and in my later teaching and writing. But the war was always there, a
                    gash in the nation's history and in my memory.
            My epiphany at 
                        Shiloh
                     came as well from my interest in America's struggle with race. Growing up in
                    the tight enclave of the Pennsylvania Dutch, the only diversity I knew was among several brands of
                    German Protestantism. I completed my formal education before most history 
                  
                     ∗ James H. Madison is Thomas and Kathryn Miller Professor
                            of History at Indiana University 
                                Bloomington
                            . He wishes to thank readers of earlier drafts of this essay: Darrel Bigham,
                            Richard Blackett, David Buchanan, George Clark, Wilma Gibbs, Suellen Hoy, Bill Munn, Alan
                            Nolan, Richard Skidmore, Stephen Towne, editor Eric Sandweiss, and two anonymous readers for
                            the IMH.
                  
               
                    
                    
                  ONE OF THE "SERMONS IN STONE" TO BE SEEN AT SHILOH.
                  The author
                professors had much to teach students about race and so learned less about Frederick
                    Douglass or W. E. B. Du Bois than about nineteenth-century secretaries of state. It took a long time
                    to develop, but eventually I wrote a book about America's color line.∗∗
            
            As I was finishing that book I stumbled onto 
                        Shiloh
                    . Years of reading and thinking about color lines had made me alert to the issue of
                    race. I didn"t see race at 
                        Shiloh
                    . What I saw instead was silence. I could find no Indiana monument to the bravery and
                    sacrifice that had freed the slaves. There was only one sermon carved on those monuments:
                    Indiana's heroes had helped save the Union. But hadn"t they also ended slavery,
                    the nation's greatest tragedy? What happened to that redemption won with the blood of the
                    179 Hoosiers who died at 
                        Shiloh
                    
                    
                  
                     ∗∗ A Lynching in the Heartland:
                                Race and Memory in America (
                                New York
                            , 2001).
               
                     and the 25,000 who died between Fort Sumter and the peace of
                    Appomattox?
            The day after walking the 
                        Shiloh
                     battlefield I toured a former cotton plantation. Slavery was absent there too. Young
                    tour guides in full skirts were eager to show me tapestries and chairs, verandas and smokehouses,
                    but not slave quarters or any real glimpse of the men, women, and children who worked on this
                    plantation. I could understand that silence, but not 
                        Shiloh
                    's, not at a place of Union victory over a pretender nation built on the
                    foundation of slavery. Don"t victors decide how history will be written?
            History is often about seeing the things that are not there. In Arthur Conan Doyle's story
                    "Silver Blaze," Sherlock Holmes solves the mystery by recalling that the dog did
                    not bark in the night. American history is filled with dogs that should be barking but are not. They
                    are silenced not by censors, at least not the kind that functioned under Stalin or Hitler, but by
                    ignorance and complicity. We Hoosiers often are ignorant about our past, and when we do think about
                    our "history" we tend toward stories and heroes coated with sugar.
            This notion struck me anew when I helped create what is now the Colonel Eli Lilly Civil War Museum,
                    opened in 1999 to visitors at the Soldiers and Sailors Monument in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Many people worked hard to build that museum, and I"m proud of what we
                    accomplished. But the process brought home for me the large degree to which some Hoosiers, even
                    those who know a good deal about battles and camps, rifles and hard tack, boots and cannon,
                    preferred silence about slavery and the war. I wanted to protest: it was a war caused by
                    slavery—not sectionalism, not economic differences, not states" rights, not
                    different ways of life, and not Yankee aggression. It was about slavery—and slavery was
                    about race. How could we not talk about this subject at the very center of the Civil War and of our
                    history?
            If there is blame for our silences about slavery and race, it belongs in part to the historians of
                    the first two-thirds of the twentieth century. For several generations historians like
                    Indiana's Claude Bowers wrote slavery out of the story, wrote their history to reunite
                    North and South and to proclaim the glory of the nation state. And as they wrote, they covered their
                    ears so they would not hear the barking dogs of slavery, emancipation, and justice for all.
            Walking the battleground of 
                        Shiloh
                     I thought about bringing together all these threads of my past and America's
                    past and tying them to the place about which I know and care most. Why were Indiana's
                    battlefield monuments silent about race and emancipation? What happened to those thousands of
                    Hoosier voices that had sung the Battle Hymn of the Republic: "As He died to make men holy,
                    Let us die to make men free"?
            This essay is my effort to answer those questions. It is far from the last word. It focuses narrowly
                    on a few issues, keeps close to  Indiana, and offers
                    possibilities but no solutions to the mystery of silence. There is much history yet to be done, and
                    it will likely be different from mine. I take pleasure in imagining youngsters living today near 
                        Gettysburg
                     or 
                        Shiloh
                     or the Soldiers and Sailors Monument in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , walking those places, filing away thoughts and questions, and years from now
                    connecting their particular present with our shared past, adding their voices to the
                    nation's memory. Perhaps they will be able to explain the silences over slavery and race.
                    Perhaps they will see things at 
                        Shiloh
                     I did not.
            J.H.M.
            One of the great ironies of American history is what Americans remembered and what they forgot about
                    the Civil War. They remembered their bloodiest tragedy in parades, speeches, and monuments that
                    celebrated peace and reunion. In their eagerness for healing they sought to suppress memories of the
                    bitterness of the war, its bloody carnage, its complex causes, and its troubling results. During the
                    fifty years following Appomattox they created silences that denied the central essence of the war.
                    Into those vacant spaces formed by selective forgetting they placed revised memories that have
                    endured with disturbing consequences down to our own time.
            Hoosier poet James Whitcomb Riley made a case for selective memory in "Thoughts on the Late
                    War," written in 1890: 
                        I was for Union—you, ag"in" it. "Pears like, to me,
                            each side was winner, Lookin" at now and all "at's in it.
                            Le" 's go to dinner.
                        Le" 's kind o" jes" set down together And do some
                            pardnership forgittin"— Talk, say, for instunce, "bout the
                            weather, Or somepin" fittin".
                        The war, you know,'s all done and ended, And ain"t changed no
                            p"ints o" the compass; Both North and South the health's
                            jes" splendid As "fore the rumpus.
                        The old farms and the old plantations Still ockipies the"r old positions.
                            Le" 's git back to old situations And old ambitions.
                        
                        Le" 's let up on this blame", infernal Tongue-lashin" and
                            lap-jacket vauntin", And git back home to the eternal Ca"m we"re
                            a-wantin".
                        Peace kind o" sort o" suits my diet— When women does my
                            cookin" for me; Ther" wasn"t overly much pie et Durin"
                            the army.1
                  
                    
            
            Riley's views were widely accepted by 1890. Both sides had won; the nation endured; the
                    people, including those on the "old plantations," were in splendid shape.
                    Let's talk about the weather, not the war. Let's agree to be silent.
                    Let's forget, together.
            This essay explores the process of forgetting and remembering as it was experienced by Hoosiers in
                    the half century after 1865.2 In placing their stone monuments at
                            
                  Shiloh, Gettysburg
               , and elsewhere, Hoosiers displayed a powerful desire for
                    sectional reconciliation. In their postwar parades and commemorations they showed too a need for
                    silence about the brutality of the war and especially about the divisive issues of race: the place
                    of slavery in the coming of war, the victory of emancipation, the early goals of Reconstruction, and
                    the vision of racial justice implicit in Lincoln's 
                        Gettysburg
                     Address. Forgetting such difficult matters facilitated the reunion of North and South
                    and nurtured a flag-waving patriotism that flourished by the time of the "splendid little
                    war" of 1898. Indianans may have been even more inclined than most northerners to forget
                    that the war had been about slavery, since Hoosiers had been particularly divided by issues of 
                  
                     1 James Whitcomb Riley, The Complete Works of James
                                Whitcomb Riley (10 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1916), V, 1379-80. Riley's father was wounded in the war, a factor in
                            the family's hard times afterward and perhaps a source of the poet's wish
                            to forget the suffering. See Elizabeth J. Van Allen, James Whitcomb Riley: A
                                Life (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1999), 32-34, 45-46, 245-46.
                  
                     2For the standard source on Civil War memory see David W. Blight, Race and Reunion: The Civil War in American Memory (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 2001). Additional insights are found in Blight, "For Something
                            beyond the Battlefield": Frederick Douglass and the Struggle for the Memory of the
                            Civil War," Journal of American History, LXXV (March 1989),
                            1156-78; Blight, "Healing and History: Battlefields and the Problem of Civil War
                            Memory," in Blight, Beyond the Battlefield: Race, Memory & the
                                American Civil War (Amherst, Mass., 2002), 170-90; Michael Kammen, Mystic Chords of Memory: The Transformation of Tradition in American Culture (
                                New York
                            , 1991), 106-31; Cecilia Elizabeth O"Leary, To Die For:
                                The Paradox of American Patriotism (
                                Princeton
                            , N. J., 1999); Nina Silber, The Romance of Reunion: Northerners
                                and the South, 1865-1900 (
                                Chapel Hill
                            , N.C., 1993); Kirk Savage, Standing Soldiers, Kneeling Slaves:
                                Race, War, and Monument in Nineteenth-Century America (
                                Princeton
                            , N.J., 1997); Gary W. Gallagher and Alan T. Nolan, eds., The Myth
                                of the Lost Cause and Civil War History (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 2000); Gaines M. Foster, Ghosts of the Confederacy: Defeat,
                                the Lost Cause, and the Emergence of the New South, 1865–1913 (
                                New York
                            , 1987). Assessment of how Indiana compares to other northern states awaits
                            publication of more research on Civil War memory in localized contexts.
               
                    
                    
                  THE BLUE AND THE GRAY: SAM SWEET (RIGHT), INDIANA FORTY-FOURTH, AND JESSE CURTIS, FOURTH ALABAMA, SHILOH, APRIL 7, 1903.
                  Indiana Historical Society
                race in the 1850s and 1860s.3 As always, however, there were some,
                    especially the state's African Americans, who were reluctant to forget.
            The war of 1861–1865 was the worst kind of war a people can endure, a civil war. And it
                    was a modern war, with carnage so horrendous that its reality is beyond comprehension.4 Approximately 620,000 people died, 25,000 of them Hoosiers. Virtually all were Americans
                    killed by other Americans. Bodies were so maimed that they were buried in graves marked by stones
                    without names. Many who fought were heroes, but the horror of combat also caused some men to desert
                    or to shirk or feign illness and some to go crazy. Americans afterward told romantic stories of
                    heroism and valor on 
                  
                     3Emma Lou Thornbrough, Indiana in the Civil War Era,
                                1850-1900 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1965), 13-28, 38-84, 540-43; James H. Madison, The Indiana Way: A
                                State History (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1986), 169-73, 193-207.
                  
                     4For two of the best one-volume histories of the war see James M.
                            McPherson, Battle Cry of Freedom: The Civil War Era (
                                New York
                            , 1988), and Russell F. Weigley, A Great Civil War: A Military and
                                Political History, 1861–1865 (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 2000). For Indiana see Stephen E. Towne, "Scorched Earth or
                            Fertile Ground? Indiana in the Civil War, 1861–1865," in Robert M.
                            Taylor, Jr., ed., The State of Indiana History 2000: Papers Presented at the
                                Indiana Historical Society's Grand Opening (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 2001), 397-415.
               
                     both sides. They repeated tales of sharing between boys in blue
                    and in gray, of exchanging tobacco for salt pork, of singing campfire songs and telling jokes across
                    the picket lines. Such fraternization did indeed occur, but this was also a nasty war, one darkened
                    by heinous war crimes, such as the Confederates" murder of black soldiers attempting to
                    surrender as prisoners of war (including several Hoosier troops at the Battle of the Crater).5
            
            The horrible events of this war did not simply fade gently into memory's twilight as its
                    survivors aged and died. Their forgetting seems to have been more deliberate and the remembering
                    more consciously selective. As Alan Nolan writes, many of the aging Civil War generation were
                    "moved to manufacture a history of the event," so as to convert "their
                    tragedy into a Victorian melodrama, a mawkish romance."6
            
            Many veterans showed slight interest in publicly remembering the war in the years immediately after
                        Appomattox.7 As they aged, however, and began to realize their own
                    mortality, they turned to the past of 1861–1865 and recalled what many believed was the
                    central event of their long lives. They sat with fellow veterans and reminisced about camp life,
                    marches, and battles. They began to tell their stories at formal reunions. The men of the Nineteenth
                    Indiana, part of the Iron Brigade, first gathered for a reunion in 1871; the Fourteenth Indiana in
                    1872; Wilder's Brigade in 1882; the Forty-fourth in 1880 at Kendallville, where they
                    marched proudly behind their regimental flag on the eighteenth anniversary of the Battle of 
                        Shiloh
                    . In 1912, seated around a long table set up in a 
                        Franklin
                     yard, the old survivors of Company F of the Indiana Seventh ate their dinner and retold
                    their stories of Second Bull Run, Chancellorsville, and 
                        Gettysburg
                    . They also came together for funerals of comrades, even on one occasion that of a
                    former slave buried in a 
                        Rochester
                     cemetery in 1905 by some thirty survivors of the Eighty-seventh.8
            
            
               
                  5Eric T. Dean, Jr., Shook over Hell: Post-Traumatic Stress,
                            Vietnam, and the Civil War (
                            Cambridge
                        , Mass., 1997); James M. McPherson, For Cause and Comrades: Why Men
                            Fought in the Civil War (
                            New York
                        , 1997), 6, 80, 151-52; William R. Forstchen, "The 28th United States
                        Colored Troops: Indiana's African Americans Go to War, 1863–1865"
                        (Ph.D. dissertation, Purdue University, 1994), 117-66.
               
                  6Alan T. Nolan, Lee Considered: General Robert E. Lee and
                            Civil War History (
                            Chapel Hill
                        , N.C., 1991), 162-63. Comparisons might be made with the American creation of the
                        "good war" myth for World War II, though the latter had little of the
                        Victorian trappings.
               
                  7Veterans" private memories included mental and physical
                        suffering that caused suicide, domestic violence, alcoholism, and insanity—costs
                        seldom addressed in public memory of the war. See Dean, Shook over Hell.
               
               
                  8Blight, Race and Reunion, 171-92; Gerald F. Linderman,
                            Embattled Courage: The Experience of Combat in the American Civil War (
                            New York
                        , 1987), 266-97; Craig L. Dunn, Iron Men, Iron Will: The Nineteenth
                            Indiana Regiment of the Iron Brigade (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1995), 305; Nancy Niblack Baxter, Gallant Fourteenth: The Story of an
                            Indiana Civil War Regiment (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1991), 176-77; John W. Rowell, Yankee Artillerymen: Through the Civil
                            War with Eli Lilly's Indiana Battery (
                            Knoxville
                        , Tenn., 1975), 273; John H. Rerick, The Forty- Fourth Indiana
                            Volunteer Infantry
               
            
            
            The most effective institution for bringing these veterans together was the Grand Army of the
                    Republic (GAR). Indiana veterans played a leading role in organizing the GAR, and 
                        Indianapolis
                     was the site of the first national encampment in 1866. The GAR soon became the most
                    powerful veterans" organization in the state and nation. After growing slowly in the 1870s,
                    the body expanded rapidly in the late 1880s, reaching a peak in 1890 of 25,173 members in 529 posts
                    across the state. Although claiming to be non-partisan, the early GAR maintained close ties to the
                    Republican party, whose candidates "waved the bloody shirt" to remind veterans to
                    vote for the Union, just as they had fought for the Union at Chickamauga and Antietam. Republican
                    politicking helped keep war issues alive and spurred the GAR's growth, but by the late
                    1870s Indiana Democrats were also active in the organization.9
            
            As they aged, some of Indiana's GAR members continued to express bitterness toward the old
                    enemy. While the GAR advocated national reconciliation, it was adamant in asserting the essential
                    wrongness of the Confederate causes of states" rights and secession. To the GAR it was not
                    the "war between the states" but rather "the War of the
                    Rebellion," as Hoosier veterans insisted on calling it.10 The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    American Tribune, one of the nation's most prominent GAR weekly
                    newspapers, let its readers know whenever former rebels claimed too much for their lost cause.
                    Rumors in 1892, for example, about a planned reunion of Union and Confederate veterans at the
                    World's Columbian Exposition in 
                        Chicago
                     prompted a tirade from the American Tribune editors about the
                    possibility of rebel flags flying on the shores of Lake 
                        Michigan
                    . "There will be but one flag," they warned. Southerners "do
                    not seem to understand that the Rebel flag and the cause it represents was knocked out twenty-seven
                    years ago." The Confederate flag issue returned a year later when the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    
                  (
                                Lagrange
                            , Ind., 1880), 279; Richard S. Skidmore, ed., The Civil War Journal
                                of Billy Davis: From 
                                    Hopewell
                                , Indiana, to Port Republic, 
                                    Virginia
                                
                      (
                                Greencastle
                            , Ind., 1989), 168-69; Jack K. Overmyer, A Stupendous Effort: The
                                87th Indiana in the War of the Rebellion (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1997), 178-79.
                  
                     9Mary R. Dearing, Veterans in Politics: The Story of the
                                GAR (
                                Baton Rouge
                            , La., 1952), 91-93, 115-16, 244-45; Stuart McConnell, Glorious
                                Contentment: The Grand Army of the Republic, 1865–1900 (
                                Chapel Hill
                            , N.C., 1992), 24; Grand Army of the Republic, Indiana Department, Journal of the Forty-Fifth Annual Encampment, 1924 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1924), 53. The GAR's last national encampment was in 
                                Indianapolis
                             in 1949. For Indiana see Thornbrough, Indiana in the Civil War
                            Era, 180-273; Oliver M. Wilson, The Grand Army of the Republic under Its
                                First Constitution and Ritual (
                                Kansas
                             City, Mo., 1905).
                  
                     10J. L. Reetz to J. Frank Hanly, February 8, 1905, Folder 7, Box 64,
                            J. Frank Hanly Papers (Indiana State Archives, Indiana Commission on Public Records, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ); Charles H. Myerhoff to David E. Beem, March 13, 1909, Folder 8, Box 75,
                            Thomas R. Marshall Papers (Indiana State Archives). That too changed. One Hoosier who
                            reported on his attendance at the seventy-fifth anniversary of the Battle of 
                                Gettysburg
                             could nonchalantly write of "the Civil War, or the War between the
                            States, as you will." James W. Fesler, "The Commemoration at Antietam and 
                                Gettysburg
                            ," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXV (September
                            1939), 256.
               
                     fair managers talked of holding a "Confederate
                    Day." Again, the Tribune expressed its outrage at the thought that
                    "rebel flags are to fly and treason is to reign rampant in memory of the good old days when
                    a Rebel was a patriot, and a patriot was a "Lincoln dog." Only "when
                    wrong is acknowledged and reparation is made, by open confession of error, and a desire is expressed
                    to atone for treason by future patriotism and support of the old flag and all it
                    represents" would the Tribune "hold out its hand of brotherly
                    love." There would be no blue and gray reunion at the World's Fair.11
            
            Other bitter Civil War memories flared up from time to time, especially in political campaigns. When
                    President Grover Cleveland proposed returning the rebel battle flags captured by Union troops, the
                        American Tribune sounded the alarm for its readers. This was in 1888, an
                    election year, with Benjamin Harrison, a Union veteran and Republican, challenging the incumbent 
                        Cleveland
                    , the Democrat who had never worn a uniform. The GAR's views were clear. In
                    1892, when the same candidates were again running for president, the Tribune ran a
                    series of articles reminding its readers about Indiana's treasonous copperheads, its Sons
                    of Liberty, and the widespread disloyalty of the Democratic party in 1861–1865. It was
                    these same men, wrote the editors, who now supported the shirker 
                        Cleveland
                     against the war hero Harrison.12
            
            But by the 1890s hard feelings against the South were fading, as was the use of the bloody shirt in
                    campaigns. Other issues emerged as more important for many Hoosier veterans. At or near the top of
                    their list was government care for aging comrades who bore scars of battle. Veterans pushed hard for
                    federal pensions and for state support of the soldiers" home in 
                        Lafayette
                     and the home for their comrades" orphaned children in 
                        Knightstown
                    .13 In these and other areas the state generally responded, not only
                    because Hoosiers were grateful for veterans" service and sacrifice, but also because so
                    many men elected to political office were themselves veterans.14
            
            The self-interest evident in pushing for pensions and care and some lingering bitterness over
                    Confederate rebellion were understandable reactions for Union veterans. More interesting was their
                    growing 
                  
                     11
                     
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            American Tribune, May 19, 1892, October 26, 1893; Dearing, Veterans in Politics, 409; McConnell, Glorious Contentment, 192.
                            For the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            American Tribune see Wallace Evan Davies, Patriotism on
                                Parade: The Story of Veterans" and Hereditary Organizations in America,
                                1783–1900 (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1955), 107-108.
                  
                     12
                     
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            American Tribune, November 23, 1888, October 20, 1892; Dearing, Veterans in Politics, 427.
                  
                     13For an example of GAR assistance in obtaining an increase in a
                            pension for an old soldier see Daniel R. Lucas to Josiah Farrar, January 16, 1905, Letters
                            Sent, Vol. 16, Grand Army of the Republic Papers (Indiana State Archives), hereafter cited
                            GAR Papers.
                  
                     14Davies, Patriotism on Parade, 139-55; Justin E.
                            Walsh, The Centennial History of the Indiana General Assembly,
                                1816–1978 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1987), 261, 402.
               
                     eagerness to embrace and to preach the gospel of American
                    patriotism during the 1890s and after.15
            
            Central to the veterans" more visible patriotism was their emerging concern to be
                    remembered, a wish that intensified as they aged. Though they still referred to themselves as
                    "boys," by the 1890s they were growing stooped and gray. At the GAR national
                    encampment held in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1893, fewer than one-third of the veterans were able to march in the grand parade
                    that wound through the city. They were too old—so old that the American
                        Tribune suggested regretfully that this should be their last parade on foot. By the turn of
                    the century, at reunions and in their letters, veterans spoke of sick and feeble comrades and listed
                    those who had died. As one wrote, "thus, we go, one by one."16
            
            The aging veterans exhibited the normal human desire to pass something on to the next generation and
                    to be remembered for their sacrifices in ways that would constitute moral lessons for all. They
                    fixed on two related goals: creating detailed and accurate records of their war service and
                    encouraging a patriotic attachment to the American nation. They believed their sacrifice and valor
                    on the battlefield had saved the Union and that it was the duty of all Americans to understand that
                    sacrifice and to glory in the nation they had saved from rebellion. At their reunions they told the
                    old stories again and again, taking much joy in "recalling incidents of camp
                        life."17 But telling stories at unit gatherings under shade trees
                    in summer and in stuffy GAR rooms in winter was sharing only with their own. To be remembered they
                    needed to reach a wider audience.
            State and national encampments provided veterans with an opportunity to do just that. In its national
                    meeting in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1893 the GAR filled the city with red, white, and blue bunting and with stories and
                    speeches at gatherings of brigades and regiments. Across the state, local campfires offered the
                    aging veterans occasions to retell their tales to children, grandchildren, and neighbors. An Indiana
                    GAR official wrote a veteran in 1905 to arrange such a gathering in 
                        Bedford
                     and urged him to "drum up a good crowd of the old boys and citizens, and we
                    will come down there and have a rousing good camp fire."18
            
            
               
                  15See Stuart McConnell, "Reading the Flag: A Reconsideration of
                        the Patriotic Cults of the 1890s," in John Bodnar, ed., Bonds of
                            Affection: Americans Define their Patriotism (
                            Princeton
                        , N. J., 1996), 102-19.
               
                  16
                  
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        American Tribune, September 28, 1888, September 14, 1893. Quotation in J. A.
                        Sullivan to Beem, March 16, 1909, Folder 8, Box 75, Marshall Papers.
               
                  17
                  
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        American Tribune, September 28,1888. This issue, like many others, lists the
                        dozens of reunions of Civil War units in Indiana and adjacent areas. For a detailed report of
                        one see Ninth Indiana Veteran Infantry Association, Proceedings of the Sixteenth
                            Annual Reunion, 1902 (n.p., n.d.).
               
                  18Rowell, Yankee Artillerymen, 265-70; C. J. Balsley to
                        Peter Fillion, January 23, 1905, Letters Sent, Vol. 16, GAR Papers.
            
            
            Hundreds of Indiana veterans wrote down their stories, and many of those stories survive in
                    handwritten and printed accounts in libraries today. For example, at their thirteenth annual reunion
                    in 
                        Madison
                     in the fall of 1891 the Eighty-second Indiana Volunteer Infantry decided to commission
                    a detailed history of their unit "for the perusal of generations yet unborn, and to teach
                    them the patriotism, valor and heroism of their ancestors."19 Published
                    in time for the national GAR encampment at 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1893, this account, like dozens of others, described in detail the particular part
                    its subjects played in each engagement.
            Veterans also attempted to gather up and preserve the relics of their war. The flags they carried
                    were most important and became more so as they began to fade and fray. In 1908 Civil War veterans
                    convinced the Indiana General Assembly to create a commission "to re-enforce and encase all
                    regimental flags carried by Indiana regiments." Over the next two years the commission saw
                    that the flags were reinforced with wool bunting but failed to raise funds to purchase airtight
                    cases to store them in.20
            
            The most dramatic and costly act of remembering was to build monuments. Most Civil War monuments were
                    placed in public spaces, visible to all. Indiana's veterans located their greatest Civil
                    War monument in the center of the state, in the center of the capital city. The General Assembly
                    approved construction of the Soldiers and Sailors Monument in 1887. Within a few years the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Commercial Club could boast that the rising structure, ultimately nearly 300 feet high,
                    would be "the greatest soldiers monument in the world"; the club used the monument
                    as part of the successful campaign to attract the GAR national encampment to the city in 1893. When
                    the GAR boys marched past the massive but still unfinished monument, the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News reported that "many of them glance upward at "Miss
                    Indiana"… and raise their hats." When the monument on the Circle was
                    finally completed and dedicated in 1902, a grand parade of 3,672 veterans marched behind their
                    battle flags as tearful spectators packed the streets.21
            
            A few years later the state legislature built a second Civil War monument in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , at the prompting of the many veterans who wanted to celebrate Oliver P. Morton as the
                    soldiers" friend and 
                  
                     19Alf. G. Hunter, History of the Eighty-Second Indiana
                                Volunteer Infantry (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1893), 9.
                  
                     20Report of the Proceedings of the Indiana Battleflag Commission,
                            November 21, 1910, Folder 3, Box 75, Marshall Papers.
                  
                     21Walsh, Centennial History of the Indiana General
                                Assembly, 254; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            American Tribune, June 9, 1892, September 14, 1893; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, May 14, 15,1902; John Bodnar, "Commemorative Activity in
                            Twentieth-Century 
                                Indianapolis
                            : The Invention of Civic Traditions," Indiana Magazine of
                                History, LXXXVII (March 1991), 4-8. For monuments generally see Sanford Levinson,
                                Written in Stone: Public Monuments in Changing Societies (Durham,
                            N.C., 1998).
               
                     war governor. The General Assembly in 1905 approved an
                    appropriation of $35,000 to erect a monument to Morton and appointed a commission to
                    oversee both additional private fundraising and construction. In 1907 thousands of spectators
                    gathered in the hot sun on the east side of the statehouse to watch Morton's grandson
                    unveil the new monument. As flags flew, Vice President Charles W. Fairbanks and Governor J. Frank
                    Hanly praised the great Civil War leader. The Morton monument dedication was unusual for Civil War
                    commemorations in Indiana because it opened a small place for women. Morton Monument Commission
                    president William King told the audience that it was "a lamentable fact that there is no
                    adequate history of the work and sacrifice of the women of Indiana during the war." He
                    pointed with pride to the bas-relief on the south balustrade near the Morton statue, which
                    acknowledged women's support of the cause. What King did not say publicly was that this
                    small acknowledgment was made to repay the Women's Relief Corps of Indiana, the
                    GAR's women's auxiliary, for assistance in raising funds for the project.22
            
            Civil War monuments cropped up across the state. While the General Assembly in 1865 had authorized
                    county commissioners to oversee and finance monuments in each county seat, most were not built until
                    much later, between the late 1880s and World War I. Some were located in cemeteries, honoring those
                    who had died. Many others were placed on town and courthouse squares. The styles varied, but among
                    the most frequently chosen was an image of a common soldier standing at parade rest.23
            
            Veterans also began to urge the placement of monuments on the fields where they had fought. The Civil
                    War battlefields became sacred ground and major sites of commemoration—consecrated, as
                    Lincoln said at 
                        Gettysburg
                    , by "brave men, living and dead." Along with other northern states in
                    the 1880s Indiana placed small monuments at 
                        Gettysburg
                     to honor its own combatants on that field, six Hoosier regiments.24
                    It was a modest beginning to a campaign that during 
                  
                     22Indiana, Commission on Oliver P. Morton Monument, Dedication Ceremonies of Morton Statue and Monument, and Report of Commission 1907 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1908), 3-4, 17-18; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, July 22, 23, 24, 1907; Board of Commissioners of Oliver P. Morton
                            Monument to Women's Relief Corps, circular, July 12,1905, Folder 7, Box 64, Hanly
                            Papers; Warren R. King to Hanly, October 3, 1905, ibid. For
                            women's increased role generally see O"Leary, To Die
                            For, 70-109.
                  
                     23Indiana, Adjutant General's Office, Indiana in
                                the War of the Rebellion, Vol. 1 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1869. Reprint edition, 1960), 475. I am grateful to Glory-June Greiff for
                            sharing her list of Indiana Civil War monuments. See also Savage, Standing
                                Soldiers, Kneeling Slaves, 162-208.
                  
                     24The state appropriated $3,000 for the 
                                Gettysburg
                             markers. Celebrants at the fiftieth anniversary of the battle, in 1913, found
                            them inadequate and "not in keeping with what the [federal] Government and other
                            states have done at 
                                Gettysburg
                             to preserve the memory of the heroes who fell there." Indiana, 
                                Gettysburg
                             Anniversary Commission, Indiana at the Fiftieth Anniversary of the
                                Battle of 
                                    Gettysburg
                                , Report, 1913 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1913), 109-10. For general contexts of this and other battlefield monuments
                            see Michael Wilson Panhorst, "Lest We Forget: Monuments and Memorial
               
                     the 1890s took on large scope and expense and revealed not only
                    those memories veterans treasured most and wanted to preserve but also those they had by this time
                    forgotten or suppressed.
            Chickamauga was the first. Not only was it the first national military park established, it was also
                    of special importance to Hoosiers because so many had fought and died there. Indiana was well
                    represented at the dedication of the battlefield itself in September 1895 by over a thousand people
                    from the state, most of them veterans and their families. Governor Claude Matthews, Gen. James R.
                    Carnahan, and Gen. Lew Wallace, the widely known author of Ben Hur, honored the
                    bravery and heroism of the Union boys generally and Hoosiers particularly. The soldiers of Indiana
                    "loved the Union," Wallace said. 
                        They loved the flag; every star on it symbolized a State, and secession meant an unholy
                            mutilation of the flag.
                     The Confederacy was 
                        wrong
                    , Matthews agreed. Yet Confederate boys were 
                        equally brave, honest and sincere.
                     Wallace concurred: the southern soldier died for his cause and thereby showed 
                        proof of his honesty.
                     Carnahan joined the praise of both sides: there was 
                        no other field where both armies stood out so conspicuously for deeds of valor.
                    
               25
            
            Orators Matthews, Wallace, and Carnahan were all troubled by the soldiers" lingering
                    bitterness over the war. This concern ran through each of their speeches at Chickamauga as though
                    they had scripted them together. Carnahan admonished that "he is the best surviving soldier
                    of Chickamauga to-day who can bury all bitterness of heart…. Those who fought
                    here," he said, "whether from Indiana or 
                        Virginia
                    , from 
                        Georgia
                     or 
                        Ohio
                    , from 
                        Illinois
                     or 
                        Tennessee
                    , from whatever State they came, were all Americans." Wallace
                    cited the magnanimous Lincoln, who throughout those dark days of agony never ceased to recognize
                    "the Confederates, even those in arms, as his countrymen." Thus, "to say
                    truth," Wallace admitted, "I am unable to understand the Northern soldier who
                    would persecute a soldier of the Confederacy."26
            
            The Indiana speakers at Chickamauga thus honored the Confederate veteran even as they condemned what
                    Carnahan insisted was the "war of the Rebellion." They urged veterans and their
                    families to set aside harsh feelings and to become reconciled with the South. Again and again they
                    celebrated the greatness of the American nation. Wallace warned that foreign powers (specifically,
                    England, Spain, and Japan) threatened war and claimed, "United, we can stand single-handed
                    against the world." And should war come, he predicted, "all 
                  Sculpture in National Military Parks on Civil War Battlefields, 1861-1917 (Ph.D.
                            dissertation, University of 
                                Delaware
                            , 1988); Edward Tabor Linenthal, Sacred Ground: Americans and Their
                                Battlefields (
                                Urbana
                            , Ill., 1991), especially 89-126.
                  
                     25Indiana Commissioners, Chickamauga National Military Park, Indiana at Chickamauga, 1863–1900 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1901), 106, 82, 104, 91.
                  
                     26
                     Ibid., 103, 90, 105, 104.
               
                     the differences, jealousies and prejudices engendered by the
                    recent Civil War will be laid forever."27
            
            Hoosiers eventually provided more than speeches to remember Chickamauga. In 1893 Governor Matthews
                    had appointed a commission to study the battlefield and mark the exact positions of Indiana troops.
                    But the process was so long and tedious that Indiana's monuments were not ready for the
                    1895 dedication ceremony; not until late 1897 were they in place. In addition to these thirty-nine
                    large limestone monuments, the Indiana commission also placed seventy-six markers that noted
                    positions held by Indiana units and precisely stated the day and time at which they were engaged in
                    action. This project was also delayed because, in 1898, 50,000 United States troops were encamped on
                    the old Civil War battlefield to be made ready for war with Spain, a vision that undoubtedly
                    thrilled Lew Wallace.28
            
            Finally, Indiana returned to Chickamauga to dedicate its monuments in September 1899. Governor James
                    Mount, who had taken part in the battle as a Union sergeant, paid homage to "our gallant
                    boys" and noted that Indiana lost more men at Chickamauga than the entire nation had lost
                    in the recent Spanish-American War. He then expressed thanks that "this nation, with its
                    unified energy, will now move on to a higher destiny God has ordained for it."29
            
            In addition to stone monuments, the Chickamauga commission prepared a handsome published volume of
                    its activities, dedication speeches, and unit histories. The histories, like the inscriptions on the
                    monuments, listed the units" engagements fought, numbers lost, and officers. They also
                    included a general synopsis of marches and battles covering the entire war, from the unit's
                    organization to its mustering out, and then a close account of its actions at Chickamauga, ending
                    with the text of each unit's monument and marker there, accompanied by a photograph of the
                        monument.30
            
            These detailed, precise histories were so very important because they were part of the legacy the
                    aged survivors were leaving generations to come. They support historian Stuart McConnell's
                    observation that veterans "tended to understand the war as an accretion of local actions by
                    small units of known individuals"31; they paid little attention to the
                    larger shape of the war and rarely recognized its possible causes and consequences. Except for stark
                    casualty numbers, the histories offer 
                  
                     27
                     Ibid., 103, 108.
                  
                     28
                     Ibid., 114,113-27; Laurence D. Conley,
                            "The Truth about Chickamauga: A Ninth Indiana Regiment's
                            Perspective," Indiana Magazine of History, XCVIII (June 2002),
                            113-43. Among those troops being trained at Chickamauga in 1898 were two companies of black
                            Hoosier soldiers. Their presence prompted considerable hostility from local residents;
                            Willard B. Gatewood, Jr., "Indiana Negroes and the Spanish American War,"
                                ibid., LXIX (June 1973), 133-34.
                  
                     29Indiana Commissioners, Indiana at Chickamauga,
                            314-16.
                  
                            30
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     31McConnell, Glorious Contentment, 21.
               
                     few suggestions of gore and suffering but instead show one
                    march, bivouac, and engagement after another.
            Chickamauga was only the first of the battlefield commemorations that Hoosiers would repeat in
                    similar patterns and purposes over the next dozen years. In each case monuments and markers had to
                    be precisely located with the consensus of the veterans. Speeches at dedication ceremonies
                    emphasized reunion and overcoming hatred of the former enemy. Seldom in these orations, unit
                    histories, or monuments did the veterans reveal the brutality and carnage of the war. Rather, at the
                    turn of the century, thirty-five years and more after the war, they spoke of valor and heroism on
                    both sides as they celebrated the reunited nation.
            After Chickamauga, Indiana commemorated the Battle of 
                        Shiloh
                    , organizing the Indiana National 
                        Shiloh
                     Park Commission in 1901. Commissioners ordered twenty-one limestone monuments and wrote
                    text for the inscriptions—"a hard and annoying work," one of them
                    reported—so that "the future historians could write Indiana's history
                    of 
                        Shiloh
                     correctly." They published a handsome book of 310 pages detailing the battle
                    in carefully prepared histories of actions around Bloody Pond, the Hornet's Nest, and at
                    the Pittsburg Landing. Again there were only hints of the violence of war; for example, the
                    Thirty-sixth Infantry was said to have "replenished their cartridge boxes and continued to
                    fight," and "the woods in front caught fire and many dead and wounded were
                        burned."32
            
            This official way of marking and recording the past was very different from that of another Indiana 
                        Shiloh
                     veteran who survived the long war to become one of America's most distinctive
                    writers. In "What I Saw of 
                        Shiloh
                    ," published in 1881, Ambrose Bierce offered few precise details of the battle
                    he experienced, none of the clarity suggested by stone monuments and bronze markers, and little
                    praise for the willing sacrifice so celebrated in dedication ceremonies decades later. Instead,
                    Bierce wrote of the fog of war, the surreal confusion, its indignity and absurdity, the reality of
                    soldiers deserting and of bodies butchered and scorched. The eighteen-year-old Hoosier enlistee had
                    eagerly left his 
                        Warsaw
                     home in 1861 for service in Indiana's Ninth Regiment. He fought bravely and
                    well, but his life was marked forever by what he saw at 
                        Shiloh
                    , Chickamauga, and dozens of other fields of battle. Unlike many of his comrades Bierce
                    offered no words of flowery patriotism or heroic sacrifice. He abhorred the hero worship of
                    veterans, North and South, that swept the nation at the end of the century: "I would rather
                    be a dead dog among buzzards than a dead hero among admirers," he wrote in 1885. He refused
                    to attend the dedications and reunions, 
                  
                     32Nicholas Emsley to Winfield Durbin, February 14, 1903, Folder 5, Box
                            63, Winfield Durbin Papers (Indiana State Archives); John F. Wildman to Durbin, January 3,
                            1902, ibid.; Indiana 
                                Shiloh
                             National Park Commission, Indiana at 
                                    Shiloh
                                : Report of the Commission, comp. by John W. Coons (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1904), 13, 59, 129.
               
                    
                    
                  VETERANS OF THE FORTY-FOURTH INDIANA REGIMENT GATHER AT THEIR
                                SHILOH MONUMENT, APRIL 7, 1903. INSCRIPTIONS ON THE MONUMENT REMAIN TO BE DONE.
                  Indiana Historical Society
                though he returned late in life to the battlefields of his youth to walk the ground and to
                    brood. He "practically drowned" in the blood of the Civil War, Daniel Aaron wrote: 
                        for the remainder of his life it bubbled in his imagination and stained his prose.
                     Bierce's hard memories were ones few of his fellow Hoosiers publicly
                        acknowledged.33
            
            Occasionally, however, some of the war's acrimony surfaced, even in official sources. In its
                    published report of 1904 the 
                        Shiloh
                     Commission included Confederate Gen. Albert Sidney Johnston's order to his men
                    before the battle. In 1862 Johnston had urged his troops to turn back "the invaders of your
                    country" and to win "a decisive victory over the agrarian mercenaries sent to
                    subjugate and despoil you of your liberties, property and honor." Johnston died at 
                        Shiloh
                    ; his successor, Gen. P. G. T. Beauregard, took command as the tide turned and in
                    retreat told his men, the enemy's "insolent 
                  
                     33Ambrose Bierce, "What I Saw of 
                                Shiloh
                            ," reprinted in S. T. Joshi and David E. Schultz, eds., Ambrose Bierce, A Sole Survivor: Bits of Autobiography (
                                Knoxville
                            , Tenn., 1998), 10-25; Bierce, "The Death of General Grant,"
                                ibid., 189; Daniel Aaron, The Unwritten War: American
                                Writers and the Civil War (
                                New York
                            , 1973), 181. See also Roy Morris, Jr., Ambrose Bierce: Alone in
                                Bad Company (
                                New York
                            , 1995), 33-39; Michael W. Schaefer, Just What War Is: The Civil
                                War Writings of Be Forest and Bierce (
                                Knoxville
                            , Tenn., 1997), 102.
               
                     presence still pollutes your soil, his hostile flag still
                    flaunts before you. There can be no peace so long as these things are."34
            
            But emotions such as Bierce's disgust at the slaughter and Confederate officers"
                    fury at invading Yankees were not much on display at 
                        Shiloh
                     forty-one years after the battle. The dedication of Indiana's monuments on
                    April 6 and 7,1903, attracted nearly five hundred Hoosiers, who heard Indiana's greatest
                    orators celebrate national unity and urge the renunciation of past bitterness and division. Indiana
                    senator Albert Beveridge paid tribute to those who had been "fortunate to die for an
                    undying cause, … for the American people undivided, indivisible." Beveridge
                    urged Hoosiers to forget sections of North and South and asked all states to forget their own flags
                    "and remember only the colors of the Republic!" Gov. Winfield T. Durbin promised
                    that the 
                        Shiloh
                     monuments "shall speak to generations yet unborn," as (quoting
                    Shakespeare) "sermons in stones"—sermons of national unity and
                        patriotism.35
            
            Two Confederate veterans spoke at Indiana's 1903 
                        Shiloh
                     monuments ceremony. Former Confederate Col. Josiah Patterson, of 
                        Memphis
                    , pointed out that the monuments were erected so as not to "give offense to any
                    veteran, or the descendant of any veteran, no matter under which flag he fought." Patterson
                    pronounced "a malediction on all men who would cherish or revive the animosities of the
                    Civil War." Former Confederate Gen. George W. Gordon, representing the state of 
                        Tennessee
                    , reminded his audience that in 1862 "
                        Tennessee
                     saluted Indiana upon this field, with the blast of bugles" but that now
                    "the past is behind." And yet Gordon could not resist speculating that if
                    Johnston, the Confederate commanding general, "had survived three brief hours longer, the
                    Confederate flag would now be floating on the banks of the 
                        Ohio
                     river." A vision that hardly squared with Beveridge's ideal of a
                    great nation, it was a small ripple in the tide of the South's growing romanticization of
                    the lost cause, which imagined what might have been. Nonetheless, the hundreds of Hoosiers in the
                    audience politely offered a "prolonged applause" as General Gordon and Governor
                    Durbin joined hands, a small step in Indiana's growing willingness to forget and forgive,
                    perhaps even a step toward accepting the Confederate version of the past.36
            
            
               
                  34Indiana Commission, Indiana at 
                                Shiloh
                            
                  , 168, 74, 170.
               
                  35"Advanced Information on Proposed Trip to 
                            Shiloh
                         Battlefield …," Folder 5, Box 63, Durbin Papers; Indiana
                        Commission, Indiana at 
                                Shiloh
                            
                  , 265-66, 305, 307, 281, 288. Beveridge's was "a
                        Periclean oration," Claude Bowers wrote. Bowers, Beveridge and the
                            Progressive Era (
                            New York
                        , 1932), 202. For Beveridge's enthusiasm for national greatness, for
                        Americans as "God's chosen people," and for the end of sectionalism
                        see John Braeman, Albert J. Beveridge: American Nationalist (
                            Chicago
                        , 1971), especially 23. James Whitcomb Riley also attended the dedication and
                        recited his poem "The Name of Old Glory." See Van Allen, James
                            Whitcomb Riley, 252; Riley to Edith M. Thomas, April 10, 1903, Riley Papers (Lilly
                        Library, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        ); 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        American Tribune, April 16, 1903.
               
                  36Indiana Commission, Indiana at 
                                Shiloh
                            
                  , 296, 297, 298, 299, 301, 304. One expert finds the Confederate
                        interpretation of the significance of Johnston's death
            
            
            The pattern was repeated at Vicksburg. The Indiana Vicksburg Military Park Commission published a
                    474-page volume, grander even than those for Chickamauga and 
                        Shiloh
                    . At the dedication of Indiana's sixteen monuments and fifty-three markers at
                    Vicksburg on December 29, 1908, Governor Hanly celebrated the Union victory but also asserted that
                    "the past is remembered without bitterness." Former Governor Durbin recalled the
                    hostility he felt as a young soldier at the Vicksburg siege and contrasted it with the joy of
                    reconciliation he now felt in "a union of adoration of the stars and stripes
                    forever." Durbin also celebrated Indiana women, who as mothers, wives, and sweethearts gave
                    the soldiers love, courage, and patriotism. ("In the thickness of the fight—you
                    felt the little locket wherein was a likeness of her sweet face pressing your heart.")37
            
            Again Indiana invited southerners to the platform. Vicksburg's school children sang
                    "America" and then "Dixie." 
                        Mississippi
                     Gov. F. F. Noel welcomed the Hoosiers as "fellow citizens of a happily
                    reunited country, the grandest and best of earth." All now joined, the governor claimed,
                    "to blot out and to forget all that might excite or perpetuate bitterness on account of the
                    late unpleasantness." The governor's wife presented flowers to the Indiana
                    veterans and also spoke—the only woman to be heard at these major battlefield ceremonies.
                    Mrs. Noel honored her own family's Confederate fighting men but praised also the heroism
                    and bravery of "the invaders" from Indiana; "all alike were patriots and
                    heroes." We southerners, she said, 
                        rejoice to be a part of our great united country, the greatest on which the sun ever
                        shone.
                    
               38
            
            Antietam was next. Following the now established recipe, the state created a commission of veterans
                    to plan the commemoration. The commissioners broke slightly with the past by deciding to construct
                    one grand monument rather than one each for the five Indiana regiments that fought there. Gathering
                    in front of the fifty-foot granite monument on September 17, 1910, veterans and state officials
                    offered 
                  "highly questionable." James Lee McDonough, 
                        
                                    Shiloh
                                —in Hell before Night (
                                Knoxville
                            , Tenn., 1977), 153-55. In 1907, residents of 
                                Madison
                            , Indiana, joined Confederate veterans of Morgan's Raiders, who had
                            terrorized southern Indiana in 1863, to erect a monument commemorating the raids. "
                                Jefferson County
                            ," in Cunningham Memorial Library, Indiana State University, Indiana Federal Writers Project Papers (31 reels, 
                                Terre Haute
                            , Ind., 1992), reel 11, frame 1393-95.
                  
                     37Indiana Vicksburg Military Park Commission, Indiana at
                                Vicksburg, comp. by Henry C. Adams, Jr. (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1911), 448, 464-65; John W. Coons to Hanly, April 3, 1907, Folder 1, Box 65,
                            Hanly Papers.
                  
                     38Indiana Commission, Indiana at Vicksburg, 455,
                            460. There was a coda to Vicksburg. Hoosiers returned in the summer of 1926 to dedicate a
                            statue of War Governor Morton. Gov. Ed Jackson, whose father had fought at Vicksburg, led
                            the delegation, along with former Governor Durbin, the Vicksburg veteran who had headed the
                            Morton commission. Jackson characterized the occasion as one of "total absence of
                            anything warlike" and a "mission of peace." No one mentioned
                            rebellion. Indiana Vicksburg State Memorial Commission, Morton in Bronze:
                                Indiana Circle, Vicksburg Battlefield Report, comp. by Oran Perry (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1926), 41.
               
                    
                    
                  MEMBERS OF THE INDIANA VICKSBURG
                                MILITARY PARK COMMISSION, AT
                                VICKSBURG FOR THE DEDICATION OF INDIANA'S
                                MONUMENTS, PROBABLY DECEMBER 29, 1908.
                  Vicksburg National Military Park
               
                     in music, poetry, and oratory their praise for the bravery and
                    sacrifice that had saved the Union.39
            
            National reconciliation and collective forgetting reached their apex at the fiftieth anniversary of
                    the Battle of 
                        Gettysburg
                    . The GAR and state officials mustered a large force to represent the Hoosier state at
                    the little town in Pennsylvania. There, on Indiana Day, July 2, 1913, Gov. Samuel Ralston celebrated
                    "the absence of sectional hatred." True, he admitted, it was a war
                    "between men of the same country—heirs of the same traditions—men who
                    loved liberty." These were men now "no longer designed as the Blue and the Gray,
                    but as the joint guardians of the Stars and Stripes." There were other speakers and
                    patriotic songs, references to Lincoln's "mystic chords of memory," and
                    tears at the clasping hands of blue and gray. Under the shade of a lone tree in the Indiana camp,
                    veterans retold their stories and lined up for newspaper photographs. Fifteen survivors of the
                    Seventh Indiana tramped through the July heat to Culp's Hill, and "hundreds of
                    Hoosier veterans," the reporter for the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News wrote, 
                        arm in arm with new-made southern friends, hiked across to the Bloody Angle.
                     The emotional force of the occasion was enhanced because "the boys" were
                    now so old and their "feeble condition" so visible. One veteran from the
                    Fourteenth Indiana died on the way to 
                        Gettysburg
                     despite the care of two physicians who accompanied the delegation.40
            
            There were 552 veterans from Indiana among the 56,000 gathered at 
                        Gettysburg
                    . As the Hoosiers packed their bags in late June the GAR assistant adjutant general,
                    John Fesler, advised an associate that he was leaving Saturday for 
                        Gettysburg
                     "with the other boys that put down the rebellion." It was an ironic
                    comment. Not only was the war seldom remembered by this time as a "rebellion," but
                    among the 552 Hoosier veterans in the Indiana delegation were 57 rebels, men who had fought for the
                    Confederacy. The state legislation of 1911 and 1913 had created a 
                        Gettysburg
                     Anniversary Commission, charged to identify all current Indiana residents who had
                    fought at 
                        Gettysburg
                     and had been honorably discharged from "either the Northern or the Southern
                    army." All were eligible for free transportation to 
                        Gettysburg
                     and provisions while en route and in camp, to be paid from a $20,000 state
                    appropriation. So, in a gesture of national unity, the state paid travel expenses for 280 men from
                    Indiana regiments, another 215 Union veterans who had served in units from other northern states,
                    mostly 
                        Ohio
                     and Pennsylvania, and 57 who had 
                  
                     39Indiana Antietam Monument Commission, Indiana
                                atAntietam: Report of the Indiana Antietam Monument Commission and Ceremonies at the
                                Dedication of the Monument (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1911).
                  
                     40Indiana Commission, Indiana at the Fiftieth Anniversary
                                of the Battle of 
                                    Gettysburg
                                
                     , 46, 48, 33, 36; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, July 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 1913. See also Linenthal, Sacred
                                Ground, 89-126.
               
                     served in the Fourth 
                        Virginia
                    , Second 
                        North Carolina
                    , Thirty-fifth. 
                        Georgia
                    , and other rebel units.41
            
            Although many of the Confederate veterans who went to 
                        Gettysburg
                     lacked the sort of documentation of their service that most Union veterans had been
                    given, the Indiana Commission opened its arms to the former rebels. In response to an inquiry about
                    one undocumented veteran, GAR official Fesler said, "our Ex-Johnny, Albert L.
                    Bagby" had only to make "affidavit that he was in battle. The committee is going
                    to be very liberal with all Johnnies, knowing that they were not given discharges, and all that will
                    be required of them will be the affidavit as I suggested." Bagby, who was living in Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , claimed he had served in the Eighteenth 
                        Virginia
                     and attended the great reunion of blue and gray at 
                        Gettysburg
                     at Hoosier taxpayer expense.42
            
            Indianans placed other Civil War monuments away from battlefield sites in these early years of the
                    new century. One was at Andersonville, the notorious Confederate prisoner of war camp, where over
                    700 Hoosiers had died of disease and malnutrition. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    American Tribune in the early 1890s had offered to its readers a
                    five-foot-by-three-foot print of the Andersonville camp, a massive reminder of the cruelty of war.
                    One Indiana veteran wrote in 1900 that 
                        I can forgive everything else but rebel treatment of our prisoners of war.
                    
               43 By 1907, when the state legislature decided to place a monument at
                    Andersonville, the passions of most veterans had apparently receded. While battlefield monument
                    dedications were normally occasions deemed appropriate for manly commemoration, the 1908 ceremony
                    dedicating Indiana's Andersonville monument featured speeches by two women: Elizabeth
                    Crisler, on "The Work of the Woman's Relief Corps at Andersonville Prison
                    Park," and Susan L. Brown, on "Work of Ladies of the Grand Army." None of
                    the speakers, not even former Andersonville prisoner George Musson, spoke critically of the
                    Confederacy. They were content to focus on the suffering and death of Union prisoners without
                    considering who and what caused them.44
            
            
               
                  41John R. Fesler to O. A. Somers, June 26, 1913, Letters Sent, Vol. 22,
                        GAR Papers; Indiana Commission, Indiana at the Fiftieth Anniversary of the Battle
                            of 
                                Gettysburg
                            
                  , 6, 7, 110-21.
               
                  42Fesler to S. M. Hench, May 16, 1913, Letters Sent, Vol. 22, GAR Papers.
               
                  43
                  
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        American Tribune, October 5, 1893; W. N. Pickerill, History of
                            the Third Indiana Cavalry (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1906), 193.
               
                  44 Andersonville Dedication Circular," n.d., Folder 2, Box 65,
                        Hanly Papers; Sidney K. Graneard to Hanly, April 5, 1907, ibid.; D. C. Smith
                        to Hanly, June 24, 1907, ibid.; "Unveiling and Dedication of Indiana
                        Monument, Andersonville, November 26,1907," ibid.; Indiana,
                        Andersonville Monument Commission, Report of the Unveiling and Dedication of
                            Indiana Monument at Andersonville, 
                                Georgia
                            , National Cemetery (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1909). In private correspondence some veterans still expressed anger: "I
                        can"t read the History of Andersonville without Taking off my Meathodist [sic] Coat and walking the Floor and Saying a Few Cuss words…. There are a
                        lot of them rebels who ought to be hung yet." James 
                            Knox
                         Polk Stephens to William D. Stephens and Jesse Stephens, September 11, 1910,
                        "James 
                            Knox
                         Polk Stephens Writes About the
            
            
            In placing monuments at Andersonville and on battlefields and courthouse squares, Hoosiers remembered
                    the valor of soldiers and celebrated the nation. Veterans led the surge of patriotism of the 1890s.
                    They focused their attention on the American flag, as when local GAR members purchased a flag for a
                    rural 
                        Marion County
                     school and then made "addresses filled with patriotic sentiments" for
                    the school children—an example that the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    American Tribune urged on all veterans. The 
                        Terre Haute
                     delegation in the 
                        Indianapolis
                     GAR parade of 1893 carried banners with the slogans "One country, one language
                    and one flag" and "Teach patriotism in the public schools." Such
                    sentiments, symbolized by a new veneration for the flag, intensified during the Spanish-American
                    War, as Americans acquired a new empire to display the valor of the Anglo-Saxon race and new
                    battlefields that allowed former Confederates to fight again under the red, white, and blue. Such
                    assertive patriotism ascended to lofty heights by the time of World War I.45
            
            Civil War memories could still provoke occasional tensions. As late as 1914 the Indiana GAR was
                    fretting about a rumor that the Confederate battle flag would be incorporated into the United States
                    flag. At their thirty-fifth annual meeting that year they voted unanimously against such recognition
                    to "that battle flag under which the enemies of the Republic fought to destroy
                    it." By this time, however, such strong language was unusual. At this same 1914 meeting the
                    Indiana GAR's "Patriotic Instructor" could report that "the
                    Johnnies" are all "proud of this great Union." Those who had worn gray,
                    he continued, were now thankful to the Union soldier, for "how could they have been in the
                    Union if you had not gone south fifty years ago?" The war of rebellion, the brutal and
                    bloody war, the war of ferocity and hatred was gone. The 1914 GAR delegates had mostly forgotten
                    such a war, at least publicly, and remembered instead the lofty cause of union and of nation as they
                    discussed efforts to place flags in public schools and to preserve Memorial Day from the desecration
                    of baseball games, horse racing, and other amusements.46
            
            This way of remembering the war, conflating it with union and nation, required veterans to do some
                    forgetting. Two things had to be lost from public memory. First, it was necessary to forget that the
                    Civil War was a savage and gruesome war of rebellion that nearly destroyed the nation. Hints of this
                    war grew more and more rare as time passed. The anxiety expressed by Indiana speakers at Chickamauga
                        
                  Andersonville Deaths of his Kin," contributed by Patti Daviau, 
                        
                                    Owen County
                                 History & Genealogy, XI (Winter 2002), 9. Stephens had
                            attended the 1908 Andersonville ceremony.
                  
                     45
                     
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            American Tribune, January 4, 1894, September 14, 1893; McConnell,
                            "Reading the Flag," 102-19; O"Leary, To Die
                            For, 150-71; Silber, Romance of Reunion, 178-85.
                  
                     46Grand Army of the Republic, Department of Indiana, Proceedings of Thirty-Fifth Annual Session, 1914 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1914), 71, 110, 117.
               
                     in 1895 about the persistence of sectional hatreds seemed gone
                    a decade later. The children and grandchildren of the veterans saw only glimpses of such bitterness
                    or of the bloody war that had caused it. Few could imagine, for example, why back in April 1865 a
                    mob of outraged 
                        Delaware
                     County Hoosiers had tarred and feathered a visiting Virginian after he spoke
                    approvingly about the assassination of President Lincoln.47 What later
                    generations saw instead was a glorious war in which, for reasons seldom specified, brother fought
                    brother with heroism and valor. There were no bad guys in the South, only honorable Johnnies who did
                    what they thought right as surely as did the boys in blue.
            The other central feature of the Civil War lost to public memory by the early twentieth century was
                    the trinity of slavery, emancipation, and race. Many believed that the goal of national unity
                    required that Americans forget that slavery had been the central cause of the Civil War and that
                    emancipation was among its most significant results. These were ambiguous and contested issues by
                    1900, sources of division and conflict. Most white Americans wanted their history and their historic
                    commemorations neat and clean, heroic and resolved, fixed and sacrosanct for all time, just as the
                    simple battlefield monuments seemed to be. North joined South in this whitewashing; historians in
                    the North forgot about the centrality of slavery right along with the Daughters of the Confederacy
                    in the South.48 The hope of African Americans and Radical Republicans for racial
                    equality that marked the decade after 1865 was a dim memory. A generation after the war black
                    Americans still encountered all manner of discrimination and segregation, not only in 
                        Mississippi
                     or 
                        South Carolina
                     but in Indiana too. At Indiana's many monument dedication ceremonies the
                    issues of slavery, emancipation, and race hung over the speakers like a dark thundercloud no one
                    wanted to notice in hopes it would move away. The desire to immortalize in sermons of stone a
                    certain kind of straightforward military history and to proclaim in speeches of reconciliation a
                    certain kind of patriotism impeded Hoosiers" engagement with such conflicted and ambiguous
                    issues as race.49
            
            An occasional monument dedication speaker tiptoed toward a mention of slavery. Senator Beveridge
                    alluded furtively to the issue at the 
                        Shiloh
                     dedication in 1903, when he explained that Hoosier 
                  
                     47Erich L. Ewald, "War at the Crossroads," Indiana Magazine of History, XCII (December 1996), 357-58.
                  
                     48One of Indiana's famous sons became the leading popularizer
                            of history highly favorable to the southern view of the war and Reconstruction. Claude G.
                            Bowers, The Tragic Era: The Revolution after Lincoln (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1929).
                  
                     49Savage, Standing Soldiers, Kneeling Slaves, 4-5;
                            Cecilia Elizabeth O"Leary, "Blood Brotherhood": The Racialization
                            of Patriotism, 1865–1918," in Bodnar, ed., Bonds of
                                Affection, 53-81; John R. Gillis, ed., Commemorations: The Politics of
                                National Identity (
                                Princeton
                            , N.J., 1994), especially 16; Jim Cullen, The Civil War in Popular
                                Culture (Washington, D.C., 1995), 9-28; Silber, Romance of
                            Reunion, 124-58; Nolan, Lee Considered, 163-71.
               
                     blood "was shed to make of the American people a
                    single Nation, and not for any lesser purpose…. Other results of our civil conflict were
                    incident to that." While Beveridge did not specify the "other results,"
                    surely he meant emancipation, though he did not say the word.50 Indeed at the 
                        Shiloh
                     dedication, as at most others, there was not a single mention of emancipation in any of
                    the printed remarks.
            Race issues were not completely absent from ceremonies remembering the war. At the laying of the
                    cornerstone for the Soldiers and Sailors Monument in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1889, popular Indiana poet Benjamin Parker delivered a long celebration of freedom
                    that included emancipation: "For peace is only peace when men are free."51 At the Chickamauga ceremony in 1895 two Indiana orators made vague references
                    to equal rights, but only Lew Wallace actually mentioned slavery. "In the beginning, like
                    Lincoln," he recalled, Indiana's soldiers "would have left slavery alone;
                    but after while, like Lincoln again, they saw it must go." Wallace went even further. He
                    asserted that now all "citizens are equal before the law," and even claimed that
                    "every ballot lawfully cast should be counted."52 This
                    reference was almost certainly to the discrimination that by the mid-1890s was making it
                    increasingly difficult for African Americans in the South to vote or to exercise other rights
                    guaranteed by the Constitution. Governor Hanly also provided an exception to the general forgetting.
                    At the dedication of the Morton statue in front of the statehouse in 1907 Hanly spoke proudly of
                    "a race set free" and "of slavery abolished by constitutional
                    enactment." And again, at Andersonville the following year, Hanly celebrated the victory
                    over slavery by characterizing the agony and patriotism of the prison martyrs as noble sacrifices
                    "to end the traffic in human flesh and blood." Governor Marshall, too, at Antietam
                    in 1910, spoke of slavery as "national sin" and even of "the equality of
                    all men before the law."53
            
            Sometimes local orators reminded their audiences of emancipation. In his Decoration Day address
                    before a 
                        Greene County
                     audience in 1885, David E. Beem, a veteran of Antietam, Chancellorsville, and 
                        Gettysburg
                    , celebrated the emancipation of millions of slaves and deplored the "unholy
                    cause" of slavery and rebellion: "a line should be drawn, deep and long and wide;
                    all on the side of the Union was right, and all on the side of the rebellion was wrong."54
            
            
               
                  50Indiana Commission, Indiana at 
                                Shiloh
                            
                  , 305.
               
                  51Benjamin S. Parker, Hoosier Bards with Sundry Wildwood and
                            Other Rhymes (
                            Chicago
                        , 1891), 26.1 am grateful to Thomas Hamm, who introduced me to Parker's
                        poetry.
               
                  52Indiana Commission, Indiana at Chickamauga, 106, 107.
               
                  53Indiana Commission, Dedication Ceremonies of Morton
                        Statue, 22; Report of the Unveiling and Dedication of Indiana Monument at
                            Andersonville, 19; Indiana Commission, Indiana at Antietam, 26.
               
                  54"Notes of an Address Delivered at 
                            Bloomfield
                         on Decoration Day," May 30, 1884, Box 2, Folder 15, David E. Beem Papers
                        (Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        ).
            
            
            
               PORTION OF THE SOLDIER AND SAILORS MONUMENT, INDIANAPOLIS, DEDICATED 1902, SHOWING THE FREED
                        SLAVE.
               Indiana War Memorial Commission
            
            On rare occasions the importance of emancipation was acknowledged in art and in historical writing.
                    The carved figure of the freed slave on the Indiana Soldiers and Sailors monument was one visible
                    reminder that the war had been about slavery. This limestone image of a black man with broken chains
                    reflected the understanding of emancipation held by most whites. The slave was seated, submissive
                    and grateful that white men had freed him. He was not asking for equality, not suggesting that
                    emancipation might bring change to the old pattern of white dominance. Still, on the Circle in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , in stone and for all time, a slave was made free.55
            
            
               
                  55Savage, Standing Soldiers, Kneeling Slaves,
                    52-128.
            
            
            Notable too was an Indiana regimental history published in 1893. Author Alfred G. Hunter, a veteran
                    of the Eighty-second Indiana and a 
                        Ripley County
                     farmer, noted that "[t]he negro" was "the innocent cause of
                    the rebellion." But the great accomplishment of the war, he said, was that
                    "slavery, the Nation's greatest curse, was wiped from existence after four years
                    of hard service." Hunter was not disposed to forget either slavery or rebellion.
                    "I see but one mistake made by the [Union] army, i.e., while we were victorious and yet
                    organized we should have demanded that the leaders of the rebellion should have paid the penalty of
                        treason."56 The penalty, of course, was death. In urging death to
                    Jeff Davis, Robert E. Lee, and Nathan 
                        Bedford
                     Forrest and in naming slavery as cause of the war and emancipation as result,
                    Hunter's was one of a very few voices—voices drowned out by a growing clamor for
                    national greatness.
            By the beginning of the twentieth century public expressions of such sentiments about slavery and
                    emancipation were increasingly rare and restrained in public oratory about the war for the Union. In
                    waving the American flag, which came to stand for sectional reconciliation as the key to national
                    greatness, most white Hoosiers and other northerners willingly forgot about slavery.
            By allowing former Confederates to participate in dedication ceremonies, Indiana not only welcomed
                    them into a reunited nation but also gave them a platform upon which to voice their versions of the
                    war. Even the occasional denials by Hoosiers that the southern cause was just did not overshadow the
                    honor they paid to the former Confederates. At the 1908 Vicksburg ceremony to honor
                    Indiana's veterans, 
                        Mississippi
                     Governor Noel, standing in the heartland of Jim Crow segregation enforced by lynch
                    mobs, referred to the war of rebellion as "the late unpleasantness," while his
                    wife made the occasion's only recorded reference to slavery when she recalled her
                    "black mammy"—a "faithful old servant"—who
                    joined the Yankees in front of Vicksburg in 1863 but then willingly and wisely returned home
                    because, she told Mrs. Noel's family, "home de best, honey."57
            
            While many Hoosiers came to think back on slaves as "servants" and to forget their
                    enslavement, it was more difficult to forget that African Americans had themselves fought in the
                    war. But it happened. Governor Ralston's assertion at 
                        Gettysburg
                     in 1913 that this had been a war "between men of the Anglo-Saxon
                    race" reflected both his generation's notions of "race" and the
                    invisibility of African Americans to whites.58 Like most white Hoosiers, Ralston
                    either did not know about or did not wish to acknowledge that among the Union's many
                    veterans were African Americans. Nor did white Hoosiers want to remember 
                  
                     56Hunter, History of the Eighty-Second Indiana Volunteer
                                Infantry, 13, 14.
                  
                     57Indiana Commission, Indiana at Vicksburg, 455,
                            459.
                  
                     58Indiana Commission, Indiana at the Fiftieth Anniversary
                                of the Battle of 
                                    Gettysburg
                                
                     , 46.
               
                     the massacre of black Hoosiers at the Battle of the Crater, a
                    memory that might stain the national reconciliation of North and South.
            Occasionally a white Hoosier remembered the past differently. William H. Armstrong, who in 1890 read
                    a paper before an Indiana veterans group on "The Negro as Soldier," not only
                    praised the valor of black troops but asserted that slavery was the cause of the war. For Armstrong
                    the North's commitment to liberty and justice produced "the grandest proclamation
                    ever signed by human hand—that of the emancipation." Those who in 1863 had
                    opposed emancipation were "half-hearted patriots." But few shared
                    Armstrong's war memories, just as few shared his war experience: as an officer in the
                    Eighth U.S. Colored Heavy Artillery he had led black men in battle. His effort in 1890 to place
                    those memories in the public eye was distinctive for its rarity.59
            
            Whites" amnesia about the key place of race in defining the Union cause occurred despite the
                    presence of black Union veterans throughout the state. Most had served in the Indiana Twenty-eighth
                    United States Colored Troops (USCT). Most, like Corp. William Gibson of the Twenty-eighth, believed
                    that their service in uniform gave them the right to "ask to be made equal before the
                        law."60 Some marched proudly with white Union veterans in the
                    Decoration Day parade in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1887, for example. In 1890 a few 
                        Kokomo
                     veterans of the Twenty-eighth USCT urged a reunion of their regiment. Fort 
                        Wayne
                     comrades soon echoed the call, and on September 25 about twenty black veterans from
                    around the state gathered at the 
                        Franklin
                     Hotel in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , "the first re-union of a colored regiment ever held in Indiana,"
                    according to the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    World, a black-owned newspaper. The group chose officers, appointed a
                    women's committee to procure a flag, and agreed to meet again. Like their white
                    counterparts, they adjourned "with a feeling of emotion long to be remembered."
                    Though the 1891 and 1892 reunions were longer and more elaborate, with speakers, songs, and prayers,
                    whites forgot the Twenty-eighth. This all-black Hoosier regiment was not among the units that
                    paraded at the dedication of the Soldiers and Sailors Monument in 1902.61
            
            The exact place of African Americans in the Indiana GAR and in other veterans" activities is
                    unclear. There were some separate black posts, such as the Martin R. Delany Post in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                  
                     59William H. Armstrong, "The Negro as Soldier," War Papers Read before the Indiana Commandery, Military Order of the Loyal
                                Legion of the United States (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1898), 325, 328.
                  
                     60Quoted in Blight, Race and Reunion, 30.
                  
                     61Forstchen, "28th United States Colored Troops,"
                            225, 228; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            World, June 4, 1887, August 9, September 6, 17, October 4,1890, October
                            10, 1891, October 15, 1892; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, May 15, 1902. See also Donald Robert Shaffer, "March On:
                            African-American Civil War Veterans in Postbellum America, 1865-1951" (Ph.D.
                            dissertation, University of 
                                Maryland
                            , 1996), 291-316.
               
                     the John F. Grill Post in 
                        Evansville
                    . And undoubtedly there were some black members of predominantly white posts.
                    Nationally, the GAR insisted on a color-blind admission policy. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    American Tribune castigated white GAR members in 
                        Louisiana
                     who objected to mixing with members of black posts in such activities as decorating the
                    graves of soldiers. The Indiana GAR publication claimed that white veterans in the North
                    "did not object to the colored members honoring their dead comrades and mingling with them
                    freely on such occasions." But the coexistence of separate black and white posts offered
                    evidence that here, too, color lines were drawn. When he was asked how to organize a GAR post at the
                    National Home for Disabled Soldiers in 
                        Marion
                    , the Indiana GAR executive had only one piece of advice: "arrange for the
                    organization of two Posts, one white and one colored." "By having one colored,
                    there would be more congeniality and they could office their own post, something they could not
                    expect, if they were in a white post."62
            
            Celebrations of Emancipation Day offered another opportunity for all Hoosiers to recognize the larger
                    meaning of the Civil War. The date varied but was often in January or September. In 
                        Indianapolis
                     African Americans marked the anniversary on January 3, 1865, with a grand parade of
                    banners and flags led by a marching band. In 1869 
                        Evansville
                    's large black community followed a brass band to a picnic grove for speeches
                    and commemoration. In 
                        Terre Haute
                     in September 1888, a grand parade featured the distinguished black leader, Frederick
                    Douglass, who continued to remind Americans of "the difference between those who fought for
                    liberty and those who fought for slavery." The 
                        Indianapolis
                     community celebrated emancipation on New Year's Day in 1907 at
                    Simpson's Chapel and in September 1908 in Tomlinson Hall. In September 1912 
                        Indianapolis
                     black citizens had a two- day gala: the first day's events, hosted by the
                    Martin R. Delany Post of the GAR, took place at the Mt. Zion Baptist Church, where Cruza Duncan, a
                    black veteran, spoke on "The Negro as Soldier" and Pauline Battles read
                    Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation. The next day at the State Fairgrounds visiting groups
                    from 
                  Terre Haute, Kokomo
               , and 
                        Connersville
                     joined in a parade, followed by motorcycle, automobile, and horse races, as well as a
                    band concert and patriotic speeches.63
            
            
               
                  62Donald R. Shaffer, "I Would Rather Shake Hands with the
                        Blackest Nigger in the Land": Northern Black Civil War Veterans and the Grand Army of
                        the Republic," in Paul A. Cimbala and Randall M. Miller, eds., Union
                            Soldiers and the Northern Home Front: Wartime Experiences, Postwar Adjustments (
                            New York
                        , 2002),442-62; Wallace E. Davies, "The Problem of Race Segregation in the
                        Grand Army of the Republic," Journal of Southern History, XIII
                        (August 1947), 354-72; Darrel E. Bigham, We Ask Only a Fair Trial: A History of the
                            Black Community of 
                                Evansville
                            , Indiana (
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind., 1987), 79; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        American Tribune, June 9, 1892; McConnell, Glorious
                        Contentment, 71, 213; Fesler to Sergeant Rothschild, June 24,1907, Letters Sent, Vol. 17,
                        GAR Papers.
               
                  63Gayle Thornbrough and Paula Corpuz, eds., The Diary of
                            Calvin Fletcher: Vol. IX, 1865-1866 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1983), 5-6; Bigham, We Ask Only a Fair Trial, 78;
            
            
            
               EMANCIPATION DAY POSTER, INDEIANPOLIS,
                        1905
               Indiana Historical Society
            
            
            White Hoosiers attended and participated in some of these emancipation commemorations. Governor Hanly
                    spoke to a large audience celebrating the end of slavery at the State Fairgrounds in 1905, for
                    example. But emancipation was seldom acknowledged in the official state commemorations of
                    Indiana's role in the Civil War. For most white Hoosiers Emancipation Day belonged to black
                    people. This view is reflected in a diary entry by a southern Indiana employer in September 1872: 
                        Most of the men off—the niggers taking holiday,
                     he lamented, 
                        in honor of the emancipation proclamation.
                     In 
                        Terre Haute
                     in 1891 officials dismissed teachers and children in the "colored
                    schools" for the day. The white schools remained open.64
            
            Undoubtedly most whites would have felt uncomfortable celebrating emancipation and the particular
                    memories of the Civil War that it evoked. When African Americans gathered to commemorate their
                    freedom from enslavement they highlighted what one scholar has called "the tension between
                    the is and the ought," between the reality of Jim Crow
                    and the ideals of justice and equality. Black voices spoke of black men fighting in Union blue, sang
                    the Battle Hymn of the Republic, read the Emancipation Proclamation, and described the progress of
                    their people in the years since slavery.65 Intensely aware that parks,
                    restaurants, hotels, and schools were closed to them, they could celebrate slavery destroyed but not
                    equality achieved. Knowing so well the tension between "is" and
                    "ought," black Hoosiers were careful not to push too hard. Their emancipation
                    celebrations almost always featured Lincoln as well as Douglass, linking the two men, just as the
                    celebrants hoped all white and black Americans would be linked in working toward what ought to
                        be.66
            
            
               John W. Lyda, "History of 
                            Terre Haute
                        , Indiana," Indiana Negro History Society Bulletin
                        (January 1944), 6; Blight, "For Something beyond the Battlefield," 1156; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        World, March 26, 1887, January 5, 1907; William H. Wiggins, Jr., O Freedom! Afro-American Emancipation Celebrations (
                            Knoxville
                        , Tenn., 1987), 102-103; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Recorder, September 21, 28, 1912; Emma Lou Thornbrough and Lana Ruegamer, Indiana Blacks in the Twentieth Century (
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind., 2000), 32.
               
                  64
                  
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Recorder, September 16, 1905; S. H. Cobb Diary, September 21, 1872, David C.
                        Branham Collection (Manuscripts Division, Indiana State Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        ); 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        World, October 10, 1891.
               
                  65Genevieve Fabre, "African-American Commemorative Celebrations
                        in the Nineteenth Century," in Fabre and Robert O"Meally, eds., History and Memory in African-American Culture (
                            New York
                        , 1994), 88. For an event that combined celebrations of emancipation and evidence of
                        progress see the pageant entitled "The Temple of Progress," organized by
                        Lillian Thomas Fox with thirty-five participants and performed at Bethel AME church to highlight
                        "the achievement of the Negro in America of the last fifty years." 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Recorder, December 28, 1912.
               
                  66For an example of the Lincoln-Douglass linkage see 
                            Indianapolis
                         Association of Colored Men to Senate Avenue YMCA, February 26,1916, Box 1, Folder
                        4, 
                            Indianapolis
                         Association of Colored Men Papers (Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        ). See also Mitchell A. Kachun, "The Faith that the Dark Past Has Taught:
                        African American Commemoration in the North and West and the Construction of a Usable Past,
                        1808-1915" (Ph.D. dissertation, Cornell University, 1997), 400-401, 503.
            
            
            
               VICIOUS MOCKERY OF EMANCIPATION DAY.
               
                  
                            Marion
                         [Indiana] Daily Leader, July 30, 1904
            
            From the other side of the color line whites were silent about slavery and emancipation, not only to
                    facilitate national reunion but also to justify what was—intensified
                    racial discrimination and segregation across the state and around the nation. For Jim Crow to
                    flourish in early twentieth-century America, whites had to distance themselves from the memories of
                    the Civil War that were most meaningful to African Americans. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star's editorial about Emancipation Day in 1905 called attention to the
                    difference in the ways black Americans and whites thought about Lincoln: "the people he set
                    free regard him with a love and veneration that white men scarcely comprehend. To them he is a being
                    half divine and they picture his spirit clothed in glory and seated close to the throne."
                    The writer also noted that while white historians argued that the war was waged "to
                    establish a principle of government, not to free the slaves" African Americans believed
                    "that it was a war for liberty and that Lincoln was sent of God to carry out that divine
                    will." As a Republican paper that courted black voters in election years, the Star was relatively polite  about this racial
                    difference in interpreting the war. The 
                        Marion
                    
                    Leader, a Democratic paper that spoke only to white readers, had demonstrated no
                    such constraints in covering the local Emancipation Day celebration the previous year and employed
                    vicious racial stereotypes to mock the ceremonies.67
            
            Black Hoosiers were unable to attract white Hoosiers to their versions of Lincoln, much less of
                    Douglass. Emancipation, slavery, black men in Union blue—these were Civil War memories
                    that sank into near oblivion among whites, drowned by the hearty chorus of a great nation united.68
            
            These acts of forgetting took place as Indiana and the nation moved to an intense and more restricted
                    definition of patriotism and Americanism, one that was hardened in the great crusade of World War I
                    and carried onward by the Ku Klux Klan of the 1920s. By the time Klan-supported Governor Jackson
                    spoke at the dedication of the Morton statue at Vicksburg in 1926, Morton's position on
                    emancipation and equality would probably have been unimaginable to most of the audience. No one
                    recalled that when Morton had accepted the Indiana battle flags from Lew Wallace on July 4, 1866, he
                    had spoken at length about slavery because, he asserted, the Confederacy had "for its chief
                    corner stone the institution of human slavery." Nor did anyone in 1926 refer to
                    Morton's speech at 
                        Gettysburg
                     a half century earlier when he had called the South's rebellion
                    "madness" and "a delirium" "brought on by the
                    pernicious influence of human slavery."69
            
            Not until the centennial of the war of the rebellion, in the 1960s, did issues of slavery and
                    emancipation, of the proposition that all men are created equal, much trouble governors or most
                    white citizens of the Hoosier state.70 And even in the early twenty-first
                    century 
                  
                     67
                     
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, September 23, 1905; 
                                Marion
                            
                            Leader, July 30, 1905. Of course white Hoosiers during the Civil War, like
                            other northern whites, were divided over emancipation. The subject requires far more study.
                            See McPherson, For Cause and Comrades, 117-30; Emma Lou Thornbrough, The Negro in Indiana before 1900: A Study of a Minority (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1957), 183-205; Thomas E. Rodgers, "Liberty, Will, and Violence: The
                            Political Ideology of the Democrats of West-Central Indiana during the Civil War,"
                                Indiana Magazine of History, XCII (June 1996), 133-59.
                  
                     68The absence of these issues is notable in the state's
                            centennial celebrations of 1916. See James H. Madison, "Celebrating Indiana: 1816,
                            1916, 2016," in Taylor, State of Indiana History 2000, 293.
                  
                     69"Presentation of Indiana Battle Flags," in Indiana
                            Battle Flag Commission, Indiana Battle Flags and a Record of Indiana
                                Organizations in the Mexican, Civil and Spanish-American Wars (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1929), 653; William Dudley Foulke, Life of Oliver P. Morton,
                                Including His Important Speeches (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1899), II, 133. One can only imagine what the Civil War governor would have
                            thought about being honored by the 1925 General Assembly and Governor Jackson, who were in
                            league with the Ku Klux Klan.
                  
                     70In 1961 Matthew E. Welsh, an unusually progressive Hoosier governor,
                            instructed members of the Indiana Civil War Centennial Commission not to participate as
                            state representatives in the national meeting of the Civil War Centennial Commission in
                                    
                        Charleston, South Carolina
                     , because the hotels in that city were
                            segregated.
               
                     people interested in the Civil War sometimes ignored or
                    misrepresented the place of slavery, the promise of emancipation, the meaning of a "new
                    birth of freedom" for all the American people. Some remained content to go to dinner,
                    "do some pardnership forgittin'," and talk about the weather.71
            
            
               
                        Matthew E. Welsh to Donald F. Carmony, March 29,1961, Folder 4, Donald F. Carmony Papers,
                            Indiana Civil War Commission Papers (Indiana State Archives). I am grateful to Richard Gantz
                            for this reference.
                        America's commemorations of the hundredth anniversary were generally more focused on
                            national unity, popular amusement, and celebration of the Confederacy than on issues of
                            slavery, emancipation, and race. See John Hope Franklin, "A Century of Civil War
                            Observation," Journal of Negro History, XLVII (April 1962),
                            97-107. For an example of the neglect of slavery, emancipation, and race in Indiana
                            scholarship at the time see John D. Barnhart, "The Impact of the Civil War on
                            Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, LVII (September 1961),
                            185-224.
                    
               
                  71Cullen, Civil War in Popular Culture, 197; Tony
                        Horwitz, Confederates in the Attic: Dispatches from the Unfinished Civil War (
                            New York
                        , 1998).
            
         
         
         
            Industrial "Girls" in an Early Twentieth-Century Boomtown: Traditions and Change
                    in Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , Indiana, 1900—1920
            
                    Peggy Seigel
                    ∗
                
            The Fort 
                        Wayne
                     city leaders who dedicated the nearly one-million-dollar 
                        Allen County
                     Courthouse in 1902 believed that their city was destined for greatness. Certainly it
                    was true that by 1920 the city's population had nearly doubled, and its industries,
                    measured by number of workers and value of products, had grown to make Fort 
                        Wayne
                     Indiana's second-largest manufacturing center. The city boasted ample
                    electrical power, a thriving transportation network of seven railroads and five interurban lines,
                    and an industrial workforce of more than 16,300 men and women.1
            
            Essential to Fort 
                        Wayne
                    's rapid industrial growth during these two decades were the 6,000 women and
                    girls who worked in dozens of its factories. In 1920 these female workers made up one-third of the
                    city's industrial workforce, a higher percentage of women workers than in
                    Indiana's two other leading industrial cities (
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        South Bend
                    ) and in the nation as a whole.2 Despite their large presence in
                    Fort 
                        Wayne
                    's industries, their importance has remained largely hidden. This can be
                    explained, in part, by a widespread tendency in the early twentieth century to dismiss the
                    contributions of women workers and by the irregular and incomplete records of their experiences.
                    Nevertheless, a closer look at these workers in this midwestern city from 1900 to 1920 reveals new
                    complexities in the history of working-class women.
            Like so many other female factory workers in Indiana and nationwide, the women and girls in Fort 
                        Wayne
                     worked in low-paying, gender-specific jobs, often under hazardous conditions. However,
                        
                  
                     ∗ Peggy Seigel, a former English teacher who lives in Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , has published articles on Indiana Civil War nurses (Indiana
                                Magazine of History, March 1990) and on pre-Civil War 
                                Quaker
                             women reformers from east-central Indiana (
                        
                                    Quaker
                                 History, Fall 1992). Her article "The Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                            Standard: A Reform Newspaper in the 1850s Storm," appeared in the
                            September 2001 issue of the IMH.
                  
                  
                     1U.S., Fourteenth Census, 1919: Manufactures, 378,
                            385-86; Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                            Journal-Gazette, January 23, 1920.
                  
                     2Women and girls working in factories made up approximately 24.7
                            percent of the industrial workforce in 
                                Indianapolis
                             and 19.6 percent of the workforce in 
                                South Bend
                            . The nation's industrial workforce consisted of approximately 20.5
                            percent female workers. U.S., Census, 1919: Manufactures, 378-79; Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                            Journal-Gazette, January 23, 1920; Alice Kessler-Harris, Out
                                to Work: A History of Wage-Earning Women in the United States (
                                New York
                            , 1982), 152.
               
                     three elements distinguished this group of female factory
                    workers from a more typical American model. First, Indiana labor laws were some of the least
                    progressive in the country in the early twentieth century. Second, Fort 
                        Wayne
                     and its manufacturing industries grew very rapidly in this period, and third, Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , which attracted few African Americans and immigrants, had an unusually large
                    native-born population, about 60 percent of whom shared German heritage. This group also shared
                    strong prejudices against married women working in factories. These factors produced a situation in
                    which most female factory workers were young and unmarried and were expected by their families and
                    their employers to be in the workforce only for a few years. Consequently, city leaders and business
                    owners assumed that factory "girls" needed not better wages and working
                    conditions, but safe, home-like lodgings and wholesome activities for their leisure hours. These
                    needs were served (and the community's preferences reinforced) by organizations such as the
                    YWCA, which built genteel dormitories and sponsored clubs for young female workers. Through company
                    welfare programs, businessmen encouraged these industrial clubs in a rush to assure parents that
                    their daughters would remain genteel and marriageable while earning an hourly wage. Factory owners
                    also supported internal programs such as beauty contests, picnics, bowling leagues, and dance
                    competitions. Only outside forces (that included a world war and a nationwide influenza epidemic)
                    would change these conditions, eventually bringing many Fort 
                        Wayne
                     female workers into the union movement and changing the employment structures and
                    working conditions of major companies.
            Fort 
                        Wayne
                    's transformation from a small town to a modern industrial city paralleled the
                    rapid national industrialization that brought large numbers of women into the workforce for the
                    first time. By 1920 approximately one out of every six white women in the United States worked
                    outside of the home. One of the primary reasons for this increase was that in the early twentieth
                    century many more factory owners began to see female workers as essential to the industrial process,
                    in large part because their low wages kept production costs competitive. In the first two decades of
                    the twentieth century, studies for the United States as a whole show that women and girls in all
                    manufacturing jobs, regardless of skill level, earned at best three-fourths of the wages paid to
                    unskilled males.3
            
            Employers and unions alike attempted to justify low wages. Industrialists alleged that women were
                    neither skilled in nor adapted to the use of heavy machinery, and that they were unwilling to commit
                    to long training programs or long-term employment. Women and 
                  
                     3D. H. McAbee, Inspector, "Department of
                            Inspection," in Indiana, Department of Statistics, Eighth Biennial
                                Report, 1899–1900, XTV, 21.
               
                     girls, they argued, were in the workforce either for a short
                    period before marrying or during a temporary financial setback for their families.4 The male leaders of craft unions feared that higher pay for female workers threatened their
                    own wages and their role as family breadwinner. As census statistics and numerous studies have
                    shown, however, working-class families frequently depended on the incomes of daughters, sons, and
                    wives to maintain even a minimum standard of living.5
            
            Although women in the early twentieth century were at work manufacturing a wide variety of products,
                    they were most heavily concentrated in so-called "female" industries which
                    included the making of textiles, hosiery, garments, shoes, and cigars, and the processing of
                        food.6 Even as the number of factory jobs increased, prompted largely by the
                    growth of the electrical industry, gender-specific roles continued to determine women's
                    work. Labor historian Alice Kessler-Harris estimates that the "sexual divisions in the job
                    market" affected more than 90 percent of all female wage earners during this period.7
            
            These female-dominated industries were, unfortunately, some of the most dangerous workplaces in early
                    twentieth-century America. Pressured by settlement-house workers and women's club leaders,
                    in 1907 the federal government launched wide-scale investigations into the conditions of children
                    and women employed in factories. A nineteen-volume series of reports, published between 1910 and
                    1913, showed that most women's work was hazardous, even life-threatening. Operatives
                    typically ate poorly, lacked sunshine and fresh air, and worked an average day often hours in a
                    five-and-a-half-day week. Such a lifestyle, combined with unhealthy conditions in the factories,
                    resulted in a national death rate for female workers that was twice that of women who stayed at home
                    and more than a third higher than that of all men. Tuberculosis was commonplace. Female workers in
                    textile mills suffered from brown lung disease at an alarming rate. Moreover, few precautions were
                    taken to prevent injuries from machinery and to protect workers from fire. The infamous March 1911
                    fire at the Triangle Shirtwaist Factory in 
                        New York
                    , which took the lives of 146 girls, sounded another national alarm for the need to
                    protect female workers.8
            
            
               
                  4Julie A. Matthaei, An Economic History of Women in
                        America (
                            New York
                        , 1982), 213-15.
               
                  5See Robert V. Robinson, "Making Ends Meet: Wives and Children in
                        the Family Economy of 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1860-1920," Indiana Magazine of History, XCII
                        (September 1996), 197-234.
               
                  6Teresa Amott and Julie Matthaei, Race, Gender, and Work: A
                            Multi-cultural Economic History of Women in the United States (
                            Boston
                        , 1996), 115.
               
                  7Kessler-Harris, Out to Work, 141.
               
                  8
                  Ibid., 106; Fort 
                            Wayne
                        
                        Journal-Gazette, March 26, 1911.
            
            
            
               FACTORY LOOPING ROOM, WAYNE KNITTING
                            MILLS, 1914.
               Ross F. Lockridge, Theodore F. Thime: A Man and His Times (1942)
            
            
            Both Indiana's and Fort 
                        Wayne
                    's statistics and patterns of female employment resemble national models. In
                    Indiana's industrial towns and cities one in every four white girls and women was in the
                    workforce. The number of girls and women employed in the state's factories grew from 29,900
                    in 1900 to more than 50,000 in 1920. While more girls and women worked in domestic or personal
                    service jobs at the turn of the century than in factories, by 1920 numbers of female workers in
                    manufacturing jobs was almost equal to those in domestic or personal service.9
            
            Fort 
                        Wayne
                    's especially heavy dependence on female industrial workers was related to its
                    well-established position as a strategic railroad hub and manufacturing center. Its largest
                    employers at the turn of the century were the massive Pennsylvania Railroad Shops and the Bass
                    Works, which manufactured railroad cars and wheels shipped around the world. Mirroring business
                    practices in the East, where textile mills were established to attract the daughters and wives of
                    coal miners, Fort 
                        Wayne
                     industrialists drew from the families of male workers to staff their burgeoning garment
                    factories, knitting mills, and electrical appliance factories. Theodore Thieme, who established the 
                        Wayne
                     Knitting Mills in 1891, chose Fort 
                        Wayne
                     in large part because of its female labor pool. Similarly, managers of the General
                    Electric Works and Edison Lamp Works saw the daughters of male industrial workers as potential
                    employees.
            The appeal of Hoosier women and girls to factory owners was directly reflected in their pay scales,
                    which appear to have been even lower than the national average for women workers. According to the
                    Indiana state factory inspector's report for 1899, female workers in the state's
                    factories were paid "usually about half what men would be paid for the same work. 10 Statistics collected for Indiana and for Fort 
                        Wayne
                     factories in the second decade of the twentieth century confirm these patterns.
                    According to the 1914 Census, the average annual income for factory workers (most of whom were male)
                    in Indiana was $636.11 A study conducted that same year by the U.S.
                    Department of Labor found that female garment workers in ten Indiana cities earned little more than
                    half that amount: approximately 
                  
                     9Alice Kessler-Harris, In Pursuit of Equity: Women, Men,
                                and the Quest for Economic Citizenship in 20th Century America (
                                New York
                            , 2001), 37; Robert S. Lynd and Helen Merrell Lynd, 
                        
                                    Middletown
                                : A Study in American Culture (1929; reprint, 
                                New York
                            , 1956), 25; Clifton J. Phillips, Indiana in Transition: The
                                Emergence of an Industrial Commonwealth, 1880-1920 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1968), 329; Women in Industry Service, United States Department of Labor, Labor Laws for Women in Industry in Indiana (Washington, D.C., 1919), 10;
                            Elizabeth Faulkner Baker, Technology and Woman's Work (
                                New York
                            , 1964), 76; U.S. Census, 1919: Population-Occupations, 761.
                            As indicative of the broader opportunities for female workers by 1920, approximately 26
                            percent of working women were now employed in white-collar areas. Kessler-Harris, Out to Work, 224.
                  
                     10McAbee, "Department of Inspection," 21.
                  
                     11Phillips, Indiana in Transition, 327.
               
                     $6.90 a week or $358 per year. This was
                    significantly less than the $468 found by government investigators to be essential for a
                    female worker to be self-supporting. Garment workers earned less than operatives in other
                    industries, and Fort 
                        Wayne
                    's garment workers were especially poorly paid. With statewide weekly earnings
                    for female factory workers averaging $7.19, the city's garment workers (most of
                    whom were women) earned only $6.62.12
            
            Like other Indiana women, Fort 
                        Wayne
                     women also reflected national trends in the types of industries in which they worked.
                    According to the 1909 Census of Manufactures for Indiana, women across the state were most
                    frequently employed in food processing, garment factories, and printing and publishing industries.
                    Five years later data collected by the U.S. Department of Labor revealed that the largest employers
                    of women in Indiana were manufacturers of cigars and tobacco products and hosiery and knit goods.13 Fort 
                        Wayne
                    's largest employers of women included 
                        Wayne
                     Knitting Mills, Boss Manufacturing Company (a maker of industrial gloves), the
                    Perfection Biscuit Company, and—a sign of the city's leadership in electrical
                    manufacturing—General Electric and the Dudlo Manufacturing Company (a pioneer magnet-wire
                        producer).14
            
            The sexual division of labor described by Kessler-Harris is clear when jobs and the gender of those
                    who held them are broken down within individual companies. At 
                        Wayne
                     Knitting the most highly skilled workers were male knitters, who were trained through
                    apprenticeship programs to operate the complex machines that knit 
                  
                     12U.S., Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics, Hours, Earnings, and Conditions of Labor of Women in Indiana Mercantile Establishments
                                and Garment Factories (Washington, D.C., 1914), 74,195. Kessler-Harris cites a 1913
                            study that found $9 per week (or $468 per year) to be the minimum
                            amount needed by a woman or girl to maintain a basic standard of living; Kessler-Harris, Out to Work, 104.
                  
                     13U.S., Department of Labor, Hours, Earnings, and
                                Conditions of Labor of Women in Indiana, 189.
                  
                            
                        14Indiana, State Bureau of Inspection, Second Annual
                                    Report (
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 1913), 93-100; Fort 
                                    Wayne
                                
                                Journal-Gazette, January 23,1920. According to census statistics
                                collected in 1909, 70.3 percent of employees in the nation's hosiery and knit
                                goods industry were females. For Indiana, women sixteen and older made up 54.4 percent
                                of those employed in these industries. In contrast, Susan Estabrook Kennedy reports that
                                in 1905 women made up approximately 40.6 percent of textile workers in the United
                                States. Susan Estabrook Kennedy, If All We Did Was Weep: A History of White
                                    Working Class Women in America (
                                    Bloomington
                                , 1979), 122; U.S. Census, 1909, Vol. X: Manufactures, 70.
                            The Indiana State Bureau of Inspection's report for 1913 showed that 
                                    Wayne
                                 Knitting Mills employed 1,175 women and girls, an approximately 60 percent
                                female workforce. 595 females and 61 males produced industrial gloves at the Boss
                                Manufacturing Company. The General Electric Company Lamp Works (also called the Edison
                                Lamp Works) employed 149 male workers and 509 girls and women. Throughout the first
                                twenty years of the new century, the Fort 
                                    Wayne
                                 Electric Works maintained a workforce made up of approximately 25 percent
                                females, (287 females, 1170 males in 1913 and 1,350 females, 4450 males in 1920),
                                becoming the city's largest overall employer. By 1920 the Perfection Biscuit
                                Company employed 663 women; 500 women worked at Dudlo Manufacturing.
                        
               
                    
                    
                  "GIRLS DEPARTMENT" OF
                                THE EDISON LAMP WORKS" EMPLOYEE NEWSPAPER.
                  Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                            Works News, April 1920
                the legs of stockings. Male workers also took charge of the dyeing process. Most of the
                    other jobs in the factory were semiskilled or unskilled and were performed by girls and women. Three
                    or four "transfer girls" put the stocking tops onto quills that were then used to
                    transfer the stockings onto simpler circular knitting machines, also operated by women. These
                    operators, known as "loopers," sewed together the foot of the stocking. Other
                    female workers shaped stockings by a process called "boarding." Women and girls
                    also worked as sorters, inspectors, folders, finishers, and menders.15
            
            Like female workers at 
                        Wayne
                     Knitting, girls and women at GE and the Edison Lamp Works were not permitted to train
                    as apprentices. Often working in all-female departments, they did "light manufacturing
                    work" involving repetition and requiring dexterity and patience. At GE women operated
                    "simple" machines such as drill presses, automatic screw machines, and grinders.
                    At the Edison works, women and girls were employed in the manufacture of incandescent lamps,
                    "winding and insulating coils, gauging and inspecting light parts and assembling small
                        devices."16
            
            Information from newspaper accounts and occasional studies of factories employing women in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and Fort 
                        Wayne
                     confirms the grave health and safety risks that plagued women workers well into the
                    second decade of the twentieth century. In 1894 workers for the state's department of
                    statistics reported that women working in woolen and cotton mills in 
                        Indianapolis
                     were obliged to stand all day surrounded by the "deafening roar of looms and
                    machinery." Poor ventilation was a common problem. The report emphasized that "the
                    sanitary condition of buildings in which girls were working are not generally at present what they
                    should be to insure 
                  
                     15Kessler-Harris, Out to Work, 144; Baker, Technology and Woman's Work, 20-21, 134-36; Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                            Journal-Gazette, April 11, 1920.
                  
                     16Clovis E. Linkous, General Electric At Fort 
                                    Wayne
                                , Indiana: A 110 Year History (
                                Baltimore
                            , Md., 1994); Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                            Journal-Gazette, March 17, 1918. For a detailed description of
                            women's jobs in the electrical industry before World War I see U.S.,
                            Women's Bureau, The New Position of Women in American Industry,
                                (Bulletin, XII, Washington, D.C., 1920), 113-16.
               
                     the best health and strength of employes." In 1899,
                    Indiana's chief factory inspector argued that "having female employes climb stairs
                    to the upper floors to their work is unpardonable, and should not be permitted."
                    Furthermore, he urged employers "to furnish them with all the conveniences and accessories
                    that will enable them to still retain their modesty, their attractive appearance, as well as
                        health."17
            
            Conditions in Fort 
                        Wayne
                    's factories were at best mixed. The Triangle Shirtwaist Factory fire inspired
                    local labor leaders and the city's fire chief to inspect factories that employed women.
                    While conditions at two shirtwaist factories were found "satisfactory in every
                    respect," the main buildings of the 
                        Wayne
                     Knitting Mills were "the worst" of any buildings inspected and
                    required "sweeping" and immediate changes. The factories had inadequate fire
                    escapes and workrooms overcrowded with girls "handling highly inflammable
                    materials." Fire escapes were also inadequate at two buildings of the Fort 
                        Wayne
                     Electric Works, and, compounding the danger, women and girls on the third and fourth
                    floors were locked in. While both companies claimed that their workplaces met safety requirements,
                    they nevertheless made the recommended changes.18
            
            Reports of work-related accidents in Fort 
                        Wayne
                     newspapers indicate that companies assumed little responsibility for improving the
                    safety conditions of their factories. Many employees of the 
                        Wayne
                     Knitting Mills had no easy, safe access to the company's main buildings,
                    located off West Main Street. At noon and at the end of the workday hundreds of mill employees
                    climbed between freight trains on the tracks of the Nickle Plate and Lake Erie and Western Railroads
                    (located just to the south and east of the main factory buildings) during train-switching
                    operations. Employees getting on and off crowded streetcars on Main Street to the south of the
                    factory risked being crushed by other workers or being caught between cars. In May 1909 a
                    sixteen-year-old transfer girl at the mills was killed by a switch engine as she hurried back to
                    work at the end of her lunch break. For years representatives of the mill, the city's board
                    of safety, and the railroad debated about who was responsible for building an elevated walkway over
                    the Nickle Plate Railroad tracks, but the elevation was never built. Mill workers also appealed to
                    the local traction company to impose greater safeguards during the loading and unloading of
                    streetcars. Newspapers occasionally reported injuries inside the knitting mills or the GE works
                    caused by machines that lacked protective guards and by the absence of precautions around burning
                    metals. Women were particularly 
                  
                     17Indiana, Department of Statistics, "Women Wage Earners of 
                                Indianapolis
                            ," Fifth Biennial Report, 1898-9, especially pp.
                            6-36. McAbee, Report, 212-13.
                  
                     18Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                            Journal-Gazette, April 4, 6, 11, May 11, 1911, August 12, 28, October 13,
                            1913.
               
                     at risk because their long skirts and hair could become caught
                    in machinery.19
            
            In 1914, federal inspectors from the U. S. Public Health Service and the Bureau of Labor Statistics,
                    in association with a state commission on working women appointed by the governor, conducted a more
                    comprehensive study of Indiana factories that employed large numbers of female workers. Their
                    assignment was to survey the sanitary and working conditions of women employed across the state.
                    They inspected fourteen businesses in Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , including textile mills, an electrical supply factory, garment factories, department
                    stores, and a soap factory. Conditions in the main factories of 
                        Wayne
                     Knitting were generally satisfactory, according to their report. GE's lamp
                    manufacturing plant, despite being "a progressive factory," by its very nature
                    created "unfavorable hygienic conditions" that allegedly resulted in frequent
                    employee turnover. Work required "the use of a great many gas blow torches" that
                    gave off heat, which was then blown through the workroom by exhaust fans. While the inspector did
                    not find "much dust" from the "grinding on carborundum wheels,"
                    the wheels did not have exhaust hoods (and thus the presence of dust was unavoidable). The east
                    branch of the knitting mills had no separate lunchroom. Despite the lack of washrooms, sanitary
                    conditions were described as "fair." The factory's only source of
                    ventilation, its windows, admitted "disagreeable" odors from the nearby soap
                        works.20
            
            The inspector recommended twelve corrective steps, which ranged from improving ventilation and
                    controlling temperature to removing dust and lint. He advocated more rest breaks to prevent fatigue
                    and precautions to help workers who stood most of the day or whose work involved continual rapid
                    motions. While he found current Indiana regulations "adequate in so far as they apply to
                    safeguards on machinery," he advocated adding regular daily exercise breaks for workers. He
                    also recommended measures to improve basic hygiene in the workplace, such as providing adequate
                    washroom facilities with running water and hygienic water closets.21
            
            The federal inspector's report, however, drew scant attention, and Fort 
                        Wayne
                    's female workers had little power to improve their own conditions. Local
                    efforts were sometimes successful: improvements in fire prevention were made due largely to a safety
                    committee appointed by the Fort 
                        Wayne
                     Federation of Labor. Similar committees 
                  
                     19At the Fort 
                                Wayne
                             Electric Works in June 1913, a young female worker "had one of her
                            hands burned by some melted metal," and fainted the following day in the factory
                            dispensary. Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                            Journal-Gazette, May 11, 1909, December 12, 1912, June 21, 1913, September
                            14, 1918, January 12, 1919.
                  
                     20M. J. White, Sanitary Survey of Indiana Industries
                                Employing Woman Labor (Washington, D.C., 1914), 30-32. Inspections of individual
                            factories are given in the Appendix under "Reports on Individual
                            Establishments." Names of factories are not given.
                  
                     21
                     Sanitary Survey, 6-13.
               
                     formed at GE and 
                        Wayne
                     Knitting (several years after the 1914 inspection) no doubt helped prevent accidents.
                    While these committees were intended to represent all departments, however, they had no women
                    members and, until the war years, they paid little attention to the areas where most women worked.
            While there were many similarities between Fort 
                        Wayne
                     female factory workers and their sisters in Indiana and the nation, the Fort 
                        Wayne
                     group seems to have contained fewer married women and more girls under sixteen than was
                    usual elsewhere. Discrimination against the hiring of married women was widespread. The
                    city's industrialists hired young, unmarried females who could be regarded as low-paid,
                    temporary workers. Both of these practices, however, were rarely articulated and were thus largely
                    hidden from public record.
            By 1920, nearly 25 percent of all employed women in the United States were married "with
                    husbands present."22 Statistics for Indiana, while limited, reveal a
                    markedly lower percentage of married women in the workforce. The 1914 survey of women and girls in
                    Indiana garment factories—the only study from this period that reported on marital
                    status—revealed that only 8 percent of that workforce were married women. In Fort 
                        Wayne
                     the percentage was even lower: married women made up slightly less than 6 percent of
                    the total workforce surveyed. With few exceptions, Fort 
                        Wayne
                    's married women were employed only when they were acting as sole providers for
                    their families or, during the war years, substituting for their soldier-husbands.23
            
            These limited statistics become more meaningful in the context of local prejudices against the
                    employment of married women. Most residents, male and female, of the city and surrounding rural
                    areas believed that a married woman injured her family by entering the workplace. These beliefs
                    reflected the German heritage of more than half of the area's residents and were consistent
                    with the views of both German-born and German-American industrial workers in late nineteenth- and
                    early twentieth-century 
                        Chicago
                    . Although unions sought shorter work days for women, they also valued the work of union
                    members" wives in support of the union-label movement to gain better shop conditions for
                    male factory workers and promote the sale of union-made products. Specific company policies
                    reinforced Fort 
                        Wayne
                    's bias against women in the factory workforce: General Electric automatically
                    terminated from their payrolls women who married, and this rule spread widely to other companies.24
            
            Indiana passed several laws governing the employment of children in factories in this period, but
                    they were inadequate and 
                  
                     22Kessler-Harris, In Pursuit of Equity, 37.
                  
                     23Hours, Earnings, and Conditions of Labor ofWomen in Indiana, 62, 10.
                  
                     24Ronald W. Schatz, The Electrical Workers (
                                Urbana
                            , Ill., 1983), 125.
               
                     subject to abuse. In 1897 the state legislature prohibited
                    children younger than fourteen from working in factories, and in 1911, at the urging of labor
                    leaders and social reformers, it considered a bill limiting work hours for children under sixteen to
                    forty-eight per week, eight per day. Under pressure from business leaders, the finished legislation
                    permitted a nine-hour workday and fifty-four-hour week for such children with parental permission.
                    In 1913 the state finally required that children attend school until they were sixteen. Children
                    between the ages of fourteen and sixteen, however, were permitted to work in factories if they
                    showed proof of their age and permission from their parents or guardian. With few state factory
                    inspectors and little record keeping, even these laws were hard to enforce.
            Children—most of them girls—played an especially important role at the 
                        Wayne
                     Knitting Mills. According to the 1909 census report on manufactures, employees under
                    sixteen made up 19.3 percent of the wage earners in hosiery and knit goods manufacturing in Indiana.
                    Only one state, 
                        North Carolina
                    , with a knit-goods workforce of 27.7 percent children under sixteen, ranked higher.25 The importance of these young workers to the industry became more evident
                    when mill leaders fought the 1911 legislation to limit children's work hours.
            Newspaper coverage of the 1911 legislative hearings reveals that two-thirds of the three thousand
                    employees at the 
                        Wayne
                     Mills were children, a number far exceeding even the 1909 statewide industry average. A
                    smaller number of children reportedly worked at GE—"[B]etween three hundred and
                    five hundred minors"; "several hundred" children were employed by Bowser
                    Oil Tank and Pump. It was not surprising, then, that both Theodore Thieme and his brother F. J.
                    testified against provisions of the bill. Other industrialists opposing the legislation with
                    "acrimonious" debate represented glass manufacturers at Yorktown and a tobacco
                    company in 
                        Evansville
                    , industries well known for their use of children.26
            
            In 1919 the Fort 
                        Wayne
                     School Board increased its attendance requirements, mandating that working children
                    younger than sixteen attend school at least five hours a week. The number of children employed in
                    local factories had decreased, but child labor was still significant: 1,400 children worked in city
                    factories. Factories employing more than 50 children under sixteen were required to open their own
                    schools. The main branch of 
                        Wayne
                     Knitting, employing 100 girls, was one such factory. Other predominantly female
                    factories that opened their own schools included the east branch of the mills, Edison 
                  
                     25U.S., Thirteenth Census: Vol. X, Manufacturers 1909, The Hosiery and Knit Goods Industry, 70.
                  
                     26
                     
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, January 22, 24, 25, 1911; Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                            Journal-Gazette, January 24, 25, 30, February 2, 3, 5, 7, 20, 23, 25,
                            March 4, 6, 7, 8, 9, 1911; Phillips, Indiana in Transition, 335.
               
                     Lamp Works, and the Boss Glove Company. Children employed
                    elsewhere were required to attend a school near their home.27
            
            Women older than sixteen found little protection in Indiana's labor laws. For most of the
                    first two decades of the twentieth century, Indiana lagged far behind other states in limiting the
                    hours of adult female workers. A typical workday lasted at least ten hours, with five full workdays
                    a week and a half-day on Saturday. Legislation passed in 1897 limited working hours only for females
                    under the age of eighteen. In 1899 Indiana became one of twelve states that prohibited women from
                    working in factories after 10:00 p.m. and before 6:00 a.m., but it still maintained the dubious
                    distinction of being one of six states with the longest women's workday. With overtime
                    hours, women employees could be required to work from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m.28
            
            During the early years of the twentieth century, Fort 
                        Wayne
                     industrialists had been able to draw upon the pool of local female workers to meet
                    their demands. But as production expanded and the need for employees grew, businessmen were
                    confronted with "the girl problem," a shortage of female workers. Too few
                    immigrants were settling in Fort 
                        Wayne
                     to form a new labor source. When local factories needed to attract more workers from
                    the outlying small towns and rural areas, however, they did not offer "girl"
                    workers increased salaries, better working conditions, or greater opportunities. Instead, they
                    attempted to create a "happy industrial life" for their female employees with
                    facilities and programs that reinforced the traditional premise that girls belonged in the workforce
                    only temporarily before marriage. Backed by YWCA programs and factory-supported clubs,
                    industrialists and community leaders created a workplace environment strongly resistant to
                        change.29
            
            The nativist views underlying this "happy industrial life" went unchallenged and
                    largely unacknowledged in their time. Even in a state that absorbed very few immigrants from
                    southeastern Europe, Fort 
                        Wayne
                     stood out for its unusually high native-born population. Ten percent of 
                        Allen County
                    's 1910 population was foreign-born, and two-thirds of Fort 
                        Wayne
                    's residents shared a common German ancestry. Ten years later the Chamber of
                    Commerce announced that the city's population was 88.73 percent
                    "American," a sharp contrast even to Indiana's average 75.1 percent
                    white, native-born population. 
                  
                     27The success of the program for children under fourteen was
                            apparently mixed, because only fifty boys and girls had enrolled, and of this number, only
                            twenty-eight had "completed the course with great success and credit to
                            themselves." Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                            Journal-Gazette January 5, 24, February 14, June 16, 1918, August 23,
                            October 7, 16, 1919, January 6, 1920.
                  
                     28Woman in Industry Service, United States Department of Labor, Labor Laws for Women in Industry in Indiana (Washington, D.C., 1919). For
                            an overall study of protective legislation see Baker, Chapter 21, "Protective Labor
                            Legislation."
                  
                     29Ross F. Lockridge, Theodore F. Thieme: A Man and His
                                Times (
                                Los Angeles
                            , Calif., 1942), 63.
               
                    
                    
                  EMPLOYEE DINING ROOM, WAYNE KNITTING MILLS
                  
                  Ross F. Lockridge, Theodore F. Thieme: A Man and His Times (1942)
               
                     This uniformity was "significant and interesting to
                    manufacturers employing skilled laborers," the Chamber reported through the local
                    newspaper. "Few cities of similar size can show a larger percentage of American and a
                    smaller foreign population." Furthermore, racial discrimination kept African Americans from
                    being hired in local factories, even for service or custodial jobs.30
            
            This uniformity created a workplace that was perceived to be egalitarian. Girls and women were less
                    likely to be assigned to jobs based on their ethnicity or on the length of time their family had
                    been in the United States. Employers benefitted from this homogeneity because of the public
                    perception that a workplace with a high percentage of American-born "girls" was a
                    desirable environment. Ethnic uniformity may also have been interpreted as an indicator of greater
                    compatibility among women workers and a lesser threat of union conflicts, often attributed to recent
                    immigrants with strong European traditions of unionization. Native-born status did not, however,
                    protect female workers from the least desirable jobs that elsewhere would have been assigned to the
                    newest immigrant workers.31
            
            Fort 
                        Wayne
                     industrialists took advantage of local nativist values as they promoted and
                    institutionalized a paternalistic work community. If parents were to send their daughters off to the
                    city, they needed to be assured that the girls would be properly cared for. Unsurprisingly, Thieme,
                    the secretary- manager of 
                        Wayne
                     Knitting, the city's largest employer of female workers, waged the earliest
                    and most aggressive campaigns to overcome the "girl problem."
            Beginning in 1907 Thieme established branch finishing plants in four small towns within a
                    twenty-five-mile radius of Fort 
                        Wayne
                    . The company also opened small plants on the east and south sides of town. In 1910 the
                    business, in the words of Thieme's biographer Ross Lockridge, "hit the big
                        time."32
                    
                        Wayne
                     Knitting opened a three-story dormitory and clubhouse modeled after facilities in
                    knitting mills in the Northeast. Widely hailed as "a notable step in advance in the
                    industrial sphere" and "the only building of its sort in the state, perhaps in the
                    middle west," the dormitory accommodated one hundred 
                  
                     30Mark A. Rogers, "Wir Trinken und Tanzen Im
                                Germania Park: Fort 
                                Wayne
                             German-American Society and the National German American Alliance During World
                            War I, Old Fort News LX, No. 1 (1997), 1; Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                            Journal-Gazette, February 22, 1920; Phillips, Indiana in
                                Transition, 324. There is no evidence that anyone from the city's small
                            black community was employed in the limited service and custodial positions that were
                            available at L.S. Ayres department store in 
                                Indianapolis
                            . Richard Lindstrom, "It would break my heart to see you behind a
                            counter!": Business and Reform at L. S. Ayres & Company in the Early
                            Twentieth Century," Indiana Magazine of History, XCIII (December
                            1997), 371-73. Estimates of Fort 
                                Wayne
                            's black population in 1920 vary from approximately 1,450 to 3,000.
                            Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel February 1, 1919; Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                            Journal-Gazette, April 15, 1920.
                  
                     31Amott & Matthei, Race, Gender, and Work,
                            111; see also Kessler-Harris, Out to Work, 138-39; Kennedy, If All We Did Was Weep, 126.
                  
                     32Lockridge, Theodore F. Thieme, 75.
               
                     out-of-town girls in single and double rooms at a weekly price
                    of $3.50 for room and board. The cafeteria in the clubhouse, open to all employees, could
                    seat 500 at a time. A large lounge was a place for residents to meet with male visitors. Recreation
                    facilities, including five bowling alleys in the basement, were open to the women twice a week.
                    "The management of the mills" underwrote the costs, estimated at
                        $50,000.33
            
            The detailed descriptions of the dormitory and clubhouse in the local newspapers created an image of
                    middle-class gentility. In the "large and brilliantly lighted" sitting room,
                    "[a] young, rosy cheeked girl in a pretty pink dress sat at the player piano listening to
                    the merry tune she was playing with evident enjoyment. Above the piano was a large oil painting one
                    would look for only in an art gallery." The room featured "comfortable chairs of
                    mission style" and long tables covered with magazines. Unlike the dormitories in nineteenth
                    century 
                        New England
                     mill towns, the 
                        Wayne
                     Knit dormitory had no rules posted. The company expected that each girl would
                    "conduct herself as a lady." As a security measure, a husband and wife lived on
                    the top floor of the building and functioned as supervisors.34
            
            In 1911 the local YWCA also stepped forward to supply housing for women workers by launching a fund
                    drive to build a $100,000 "Y" home. Since its founding in 1894, the Y
                    had provided working "girls" from outside the city "the privilege of a
                    home and protection." Dining rooms, known as the "Noon Rest," furnished
                    low-cost lunches and dinners, and by 1910 the Y was serving an average of two hundred meals a day.
                    In contrast, its sleeping accommodations, with space for only eleven temporary lodgers, were
                    woefully inadequate. While staff members attempted to find decent boardinghouses for out-of-town
                    girls, the need far exceeded available accommodations. The primary purpose of the new building was
                    housing, but fundraisers also stressed the importance of more space for educational and recreational
                    programs. While committees of women led the fundraising campaign, an advisory committee of male
                    business leaders "heartily" supported the Ys expansion.35
            
            The three-story building that opened in 1913 was described as "a place of beauty"
                    that gave "careful attention" to "[e]very comfort of the young
                    ladies." There was a spacious oak-paneled lounge on the first floor and a cafeteria with an
                    oven large enough for 100 pies at a time. The basement housed a gymnasium and showers; the rooftop
                    was intended for use as a summer garden. The dormitory 
                  
                     33Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel December 10, 1919; Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                            Journal-Gazette, December 12, 1910.
                  
                     34Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                            Journal-Gazette, December 12, 1910.
                  
                     35Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                            Journal-Gazette, December 26, 1910, April 27, 1913, February 28, 1920;
                            John D. Beatty, "Cyprians, Shanty Dancers, and Ladies of Pleasure: Prostitution in
                            Fort 
                                Wayne
                             from the Canal to the Progressive Era," Old Fort
                            News, LXIV, No. 1 (2001), 17-20.
               
                     rooms and temporary housing on the top two floors accommodated
                    forty young women—a significant improvement but still inadequate to meet the needs of
                    women workers.36
            
            The Y hired a secretary to organize clubs that offered safe activities to girls who might otherwise
                    be led astray, as social reformers feared, by "[d]roves of blackguards" who
                    haunted downtown streets. Since its leaders agreed with the widely shared belief that young women
                    were only in the workforce temporarily, the Y's programs did not focus on workplace
                    conditions or trade union involvement, in decided contrast to the work of settlement houses in 
                        Chicago
                     and elsewhere. Instead weekly classes taught basketry, sewing, gymnastics, and cooking.
                    Business-like meetings introduced members to some aspects of the pervasive middle-class
                    woman's club culture. One popular event sponsored by the industrial clubs was Sunday
                    afternoon tea at the YWCA. Over the next few years, clubs were organized at the 
                        Wayne
                     Knitting Mills, GE, Edison Lamp Works, Dudlo, 
                        Wayne
                     Box Company, and Home Telephone and Telegraph Company.37 In the
                    fall of 1919, the Y opened an annex at 207 West 
                        Wayne
                     Street to accommodate forty more "girls," yet still more housing was
                    needed. By 1920 its industrial clubs enrolled more than 1,200 young women from local factories.
                    Without doubt, the Y programs played a significant role in attracting young working women to the
                    city's booming industries.38
            
            During these years of rapid industrial growth, Edison and GE built spacious lunchrooms and clubrooms
                    to make their companies more appealing to female workers. Edison's lunchroom, which opened
                    in 1912, could serve 800 girls in 35 minutes. GE's Elex Club had a room with a piano,
                    reading tables, and comfortable lounge chairs, and the space was also used for dances and musical
                    and theatrical performances. To entertain young female employees, GE, 
                        Wayne
                     Knitting, Edison, and other city factories sponsored "most popular girl in the
                    factory" contests, company picnics, Chautauqua-type music programs, style shows, athletic
                    events, and, by 1919, screenings of moving pictures.39
            
            Club records also reveal the existence of a small but significant group of older female workers:
                    women with long careers that included supervisory positions as foreladies, instructors, inspectors,
                    even factory overseers. Beginning in 1904 
                        Wayne
                     Knitting sponsored an 
                  
                     36Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                            Journal-Gazette, April 27, 1913.
                  
                     37Allen Davis discusses at length how Hull House workers supported
                            women factory workers in 
                                Chicago
                            ; Allen F. Davis, Spearheads for Reform: The Social Settlements and
                                the Progressive Movement 1890-1914 (
                                New York
                            , 1967), especially chap. 6. Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                            Journal-Gazette, March 19, 1919, February 29, 1920. For a description of
                            the programs of the 
                                Indianapolis
                             YWCA programs for working women see Lindstrom, "It would break my
                            heart to see you behind a counter!," 370-71.
                  
                     38Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                            Journal-Gazette, February 8, 29, 1920.
                  
                     39
                     Ibid., December 11, 1910; Linkous, General Electric at Fort 
                                    Wayne
                                
                     , 243-45.
               
                    
                    
                  A FACTORY CIRCULAR FOR FEMALE EMPLOYEES, WITH RECIPES AND ANNOUNCEMENTS OF
                                COMPANY-SPONSORED ACTIVITIES.
                  Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                            Works News, April 1920
                organization of foremen, foreladies, and heads of departments called the Textile
                    Industrial Club. A photograph of club members in 1916, on the occasion of the company's
                    25th anniversary, depicts nine women out of a group of thirty-five. In 1918 the company formed the
                    Pioneer Club for employees who had been with the mills for at least twenty years. A 1920 photograph
                    of its twenty-five members includes eight women.40
            
            While such efforts to improve working women's lives took place away from the factory floor
                    and during breaktimes or leisure hours, by 1917 Fort 
                        Wayne
                    's industrial workers began to see gains in their working conditions. The
                    impetus for these changes came not from employers but from a broad set of political and economic
                    circumstances affecting the entire nation. Soon after the United States entered World War I in April
                    1917, an additional ten million women joined the nation's workforce.41
                    When female workers became more valuable as a consequence of the war, limitations linked to marital
                    status and gender roles became less important. Working hours and conditions 
                  
                     40Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                            Journal-Gazette, August 3, 1917. Photographs collected in 1913 of
                            employees who had worked at the mill for twenty or more years included five women; ibid., June 4, 1913, June 15, 1918.
                  
                     41Amott and Matthaei, Race, Gender, and Work,
                        126.
               
                     also improved, largely because of Women in Industry Service
                    (WIS), a policy-setting board established by the federal government to safeguard women in
                    war-related industries.
            Women's factory work came to be regarded as a contribution to the war effort. Florence
                    Madden, director of the girls" and women's division of the federal employment
                    office in Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , announced in the local newspaper that it was "up to the women and girls to
                    help win the war." Major employers—
                        Wayne
                     Knitting Mills, the Traction Company, the Pennsylvania Railroad shops, and
                    GE—adopted policies to place women in jobs vacated by soldiers. Women took over clerical
                    jobs and worked as railroad-engine wipers, train dispatchers, and telegraphers. Local factories also
                    created safety rules requiring female workers to discard their "dangerous female
                    attire." Women put on overalls and tucked their long hair into caps.42
            
            The record of the General Electric Works provides the most complete picture of how female workers in
                    Fort 
                        Wayne
                     took on new roles as a result of wartime conditions. Peak employment during the war was
                    4,535, and while records of employees" gender are incomplete, it can be assumed that women
                    workers filled in for many of the 748 male employees who left for military service. Quickly
                    adjusting to wartime demands, GE became a major government contractor. Its local factories turned
                    out "generators and transformers and power motors for driving factories," rock
                    drills for coal mines, "bomb-releasing mechanisms for dropping high explosives from bombing
                    planes," a wide variety of generators for surveillance and military radios, and equipment
                    used for battleships, including the 
                  
                            New Mexico
                        .
               43
            
            GE began to place "girls" in a variety of new factory roles. As preparation for
                    supervisory positions, twenty young women were trained in a course that covered "the
                    general working of the plant, the inter-relations of departments, and the methods of
                    accounting." In the summer of 1918 GE offered a six-week intensive class in mechanical
                    drawing to "carefully selected" applicants. Advertisements stressed that
                    "a great number of women" had already proven that they had "as much
                    latent mechanical ability as men" but had been discouraged from pursuing related fields.
                    Here was a way to show their abilities and their patriotism. Evening classes in mathematics and
                    mechanical studies were also opened to women so that they could acquire drafting skills. Upon
                    completion of training, they were assigned "permanent" jobs in drafting
                    departments at "a substantial salary."44
            
            
               
                  42There were frequent notices throughout the spring and summer of 1917
                        giving information about the substitution of women in jobs vacated by men going into military
                        service. See, e.g., Fort 
                            Wayne
                        
                        Journal-Gazette, May 18, 1917.
               
                  43Linkous, General Electric at Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                  , 264-66; Fort 
                            Wayne
                         General Electric Works News, December 1924. It should be noted
                        that the number of women employed at GE who left to serve as Red Cross nurses or in other war
                        time capacities is unknown; Fort 
                            Wayne
                        
                        Journal-Gazette, September 9, 1919.
               
                  44Fort 
                            Wayne
                        
                        Journal-Gazette, November 20, 1917, July 7, 1918; Fort 
                            Wayne
                         General Electric Works News, August 1919.
            
            
            In the early fall of 1918, GE opened a Vestibule Training School to train women for jobs using
                    "simple" machines such as drill presses, automatic screw machines, grinders, and
                    milling machines. The school offered evening classes in practical mathematics and blueprint reading.
                    Following guidelines established by WIS, the company announced that women would be paid the same as
                    men during their program and "after going into the shops," and that the workday
                    had been reduced to eight hours.45
            
            Following the November 1918 armistice, GE and other city employers promised returning soldiers that
                    they would be rehired for their former jobs. At the same time, however, GE management praised women
                    as "very efficient and desirable help" and, contrary to nationwide trends,
                    affirmed that women now comprised a larger part of their permanent workforce. Probably because of
                    continuing expansion of the electric works, no significant layoffs of women were necessary to
                    accommodate returning employees. Women and men now trained together in the Vestibule Training
                    School. A new program for clerks, inspectors, and leading operators enrolled sixty women. In August
                    1919 the company newsletter announced, "[I]t is obvious that the taking of the course will
                    be an important factor in the advancement of those who have been selected." Unfortunately,
                    most prewar gender roles were reinstated and women were once again excluded from drafting classes,
                    although those who had been trained during the war were allowed to keep their jobs.46
            
            The record of women at the 
                        Wayne
                     Knitting Mills during the war is less complete, but a combination of circumstances did
                    create new opportunities. Women served as heads of the sales and claims departments and as general
                    overseers in the mill. Women also took over "light labor" jobs that had previously
                    been held by men. In addition, classes were given "to about 60 foreladies, inspectors and
                    leading girl employees" in applied psychology and advanced knitting techniques. 
                        Wayne
                     Knitting was also the only local factory that offered university-level classes to its
                    female employees. In the fall of 1917 professors from Indiana University Extension taught evening
                    courses in economics, elementary French, and short story writing. In the same year the first
                    factory-based chapter of the Nonpartisan League, the predecessor of the League of Women Voters, was
                    formed at the mills. The league and its members, hopeful that the state constitution would be
                    amended to allow woman suffrage, encouraged women to register to vote in the upcoming September
                    election for delegates to the state constitutional convention. By the end of the summer of 
                  
                     45Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                            Works News August, September, October 1918, March 1919, December 1924;
                            Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                            Journal-Gazette, November 20, 1917, July 7, September 5,1918. According to
                            the Women's Bureau report on women's work in the war, women most often
                            replaced men in machine shops; U.S., Women's Bureau, New Position of
                                Women in American Industry, 93-94.
                  
                     46Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                            Works News, August 1919.
               
                     1918, noon-day meetings, led by the Fort 
                        Wayne
                     branch of the franchise league, were held at all of the city's large
                    factories.
            Two leaders at the mills shared responsibility for these changes. The director of the
                    company's welfare program, Ross Lockridge, taught classes in public speaking and sponsored
                    a club for the students who took college classes. Enthusiastic about women's contributions
                    to the war effort, Lockridge was a strong advocate of universal suffrage. Agatha Diek, general
                    overseer during the war period, was an officer of both the local and district Woman's
                    Franchise League and served as the first chairman of the 
                        Wayne
                     Knit chapter of the nonpartisan league. She was also the instructor for the advanced
                    knitting technique classes given to foreladies and "leading girl" employees.47
            
            One of the most significant changes for women workers during this period was the rise of union
                    activity. In March 1917, during the early months of the nation's involvement in the war,
                    several hundred women electrical workers joined a union in response to efforts by local labor
                    leaders and Arthur Bennett, an 
                        Illinois
                    -based organizer for the international electrical workers. Shortly before the armistice,
                    in October 1918, local union leaders, aided again by Bennett along with representatives of the
                    machinists" unions, organized women from many other city factories, stressing
                    "equal rights and privileges." "No longer will the factory girls of the
                    city be forced to accept any terms of employment that are given to them," commented a Fort 
                        Wayne
                     newspaper writer covering a large meeting in the Federation of Labor Hall, attended by
                    "girls representing nearly every craft in the city." During the same period and in
                    the same union hall, Mary Anderson of WIS met with telephone operators and "electrical
                    girls" to stress their important wartime roles. In late November more than 700 new female
                    members of Electrical Workers Local 608 heard James F. Barrett of the Department of Labor praise
                    them for their "splendid" wartime work. The Journal-Gazette
                    reported that their "stick-together-ness" was "binding them into one of
                    the strongest organizations in the city, which will mean the revolutionizing of the women in
                    industries in this city."48
            
            During the winter of 1918-1919, the union's strength did appear to be revolutionary. On
                    December 19, 2,200 GE employees (75 percent of the local workforce, including many women) and all
                    members of the electrical workers and machinists" unions went on strike to protest the
                    firing of thirty workers at the GE plant in Erie, Pennsylvania. In what became the first general
                    strike to affect all GE plants, the Fort 
                        Wayne
                     workers showed solidarity with nearly 18,000 fellow union members in Erie, and in
                    Schenectady and Pittsfield, 
                        New York
                    .
            
               
                  47Fort 
                            Wayne
                        
                        Journal-Gazette, June 10, 12, 1917, August 8, 21, September 5, 1918.
               
                  48
                  Ibid., March 18, 1917, October 2, November 20, 1918,
                        January 2, 1919.
            
            
            In Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , however, it was the level of participation by women strikers and the support they
                    received from fellow male unionists that seemed revolutionary. The unanimous backing of the Fort 
                        Wayne
                     Federation of Labor for the GE strikers was also unprecedented. For two weeks, women
                    joined the pickets around the plants and forfeited their regular pay. Because their union was too
                    recently formed to have a strike benefit fund, funds were collected "to take care of the
                    girls … really in need" from sales of cards printed with the words "I
                    believe in industrial Democracy, and am helping the GE strikers." In early January, at a
                    meeting of GE and Edison Lamp electrical workers, women were elected as union officers and as
                    delegates to both the local trade council and an international convention. When the National War
                    Labor Board settled the Erie strike by ordering strikers back to work, the Fort 
                        Wayne
                     union voted unanimously to comply. Negotiations continued as union representatives
                    demanded the reinstatement of the fired Erie employees, but female and male members of the local
                    electrical and machinist unions were able to take pride in having made a stand for "a lofty
                        purpose."49
            
            In a less successful action, in December 1920 female workers at 
                        Wayne
                     Knitting walked out in a company-wide strike to protest the elimination of pay bonuses
                    and profit sharing (cuts that represented a 20-percent pay reduction). Among the 800 employees on
                    strike were transfer "girls" and members of the winding, sewing, inspecting, and
                    folding departments. Knitters with years of experience with the company, including members of the
                    twenty-year Pioneer Club, led the strike. As weeks, then months, passed, some of the workers
                    returned to their jobs. Nevertheless, many departments operated at only 50-percent capacity as
                    strikers peacefully picketed outside through the winter. From the beginning, Thieme refused to
                    negotiate with union leaders, driving a deep wedge between management and employees. Finally, in
                    late April 1921, Thieme ended the strike by firing sixteen of the union leaders and ordering the
                    other strikers back to work.
            While little record has survived of the participation of the female strikers, their involvement in
                    itself suggests a new consciousness. Unlike the nationally publicized strikes of 1912 and 1913 at
                    textile and silk mills in the East (notably in Lawrence, 
                        Massachusetts
                    , and Patterson, 
                        New Jersey
                    ), outside union organizers do not appear to have recruited female workers at the 
                        Wayne
                     Knitting Mills. Moreover, since women had little prior involvement in local craft
                    unions, joining the strike meant not only financial loss and social ostracism but also taking a new
                    public role. One onlooker captured the emotions of the 
                  
                     49"Philip J. Leahey, Skilled Labor and the Rise of the Modern
                            Corporation: The Case of the Electrical Industry," Labor History,
                            XXVII (Winter 1985/1986), 52. The Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                            Journal-Gazette reported that GE workers in Lynn, 
                                Massachusetts
                            , and Petersborough, 
                                Ontario
                            , also participated in the strike; Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                            Journal-Gazette, December 21, 22, 28, 1918, January 4, 1919.
               
                     walkout when he reported that "[a] good number of the
                    girls cried and all the men were looking very solemn and sincere."
                    "Girls" were probably among the 300 mill workers who showed solidarity with the
                    fired leaders by refusing to comply with Thieme's order to return to work.50
            
            During the war women factory workers gained support on the state level from labor groups, social
                    reformers, and Governor James P. Goodrich. Indiana became the first of thirty-one states to direct
                    the WIS to survey the hours and conditions of women in state factories as a first step in
                    determining needs for new legislation. Investigators inspected 110 factories in eight cities and
                    towns (not including Fort 
                        Wayne
                    ) where over 12,000 women were employed. Their report, Labor Laws for Women
                        in Industry in Indiana: Report of a Survey, published in 1919, included twelve specific
                    recommendations that included shortening the work day and strengthening sanitation and safety
                    regulations. To implement these changes, WIS recommended the creation of a permanent
                    Women's Division within the factory inspection department. While employers still opposed
                    reforms that included an eight-hour day and a minimum wage, the General Assembly succeeded in
                    forming a department for women and children, directed by a woman, within the state Industrial
                        Board.51
            
            At the end of the war, Madden emphasized the "prominent part" Fort 
                        Wayne
                     factory women had played in the nation's war machine. In contrast, a lengthy
                    article in the local newspaper entitled "
                        Allen County
                    's Record of Glory Gives Victory Thrill in Great World War" lacked any
                    mention of women's work in local factories. Similarly, GE's official publication
                    memorializing the contributions of its employees to the war effort contained no references to women.
                    Despite these tendencies to restore women workers to prewar invisibility, for the first time many
                    women in Fort 
                        Wayne
                     had asserted their right to be acknowledged and treated fairly by employers.52
            
            As Fort 
                        Wayne
                     factory workers entered the 1920s, it could be argued that women had made some
                    significant steps forward in the workplace. GE employees, along with approximately 45 percent of the
                    industrial workforce in Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , now worked a forty-eight hour work week. Federal regulations brought about by WIS had
                    produced some changes in state labor laws. The influenza epidemic of 1918 and 1919 had prompted
                    employers to reconsider the importance of safe, sanitary work environments.53
                    Greater safety consciousness 
                  
                     50Lockridge gives management's account of the strike;
                            Lockridge, Theodore F. Thieme, 153-62. Frequent articles appear in both
                            Fort 
                                Wayne
                             newspapers from December 1, 1920, to April 23, 1921.
                  
                     51Phillips, Indiana in Transition, 337; Woman at Work: An Autobiography of Mary Anderson as told to Mary N. Winslow (
                                Minneapolis
                            , Minn., 1951), 112.
                  
                     52Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                            Journal-Gazette, November 22, December 22, 1918; Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                            Works News December 1924.
                  
                     53Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                            Journal-Gazette, October 22, 1918, June 20, 1919, April 16, 1920.
               
                     even led GE to invite visitors from the community to see what
                    the company was doing to protect their employees. Many women factory workers had joined unions, and
                    some had participated in strikes. Unions also gave a few women new opportunities for local and even
                    national leadership roles. In a city known for its tradition-minded, compliant female workforce,
                    more and more women were acting to change their roles in the workplace and supporting one another in
                    unions.
            There were still, however, many gains yet to be made. The state still did little to help working
                    women. Indiana remained one of only six states that did not restrict women's daytime work
                    hours. Despite a new state bureaucracy for standardizing working conditions, there were few legal
                    guarantees of safety and sanitation. Many women, still considered short-term workers, were confined
                    to monotonous, low-paying jobs. Decent, affordable housing for female workers also remained scarce.
            On August 28, 1920, bells and whistles blew for ten minutes at every church and factory in Fort 
                        Wayne
                     to celebrate the final ratification of the woman's suffrage bill. The promise
                    of political power gave working-class women new hope for the future. Their confidence was further
                    heightened when Agatha Diek, a former long-term employee of the 
                        Wayne
                     Knitting Mills, was elected president of the Fort 
                        Wayne
                     League of Women Voters and appointed to a legislative committee on women in industry
                    committed to a shorter work day and a minimum wage.54
            
            Fort 
                        Wayne
                    's industrial "girls" seemed to be on the brink of claiming
                    adult status and significant progress towards equality. For twenty years the city's
                    business owners, with the support of the YWCA, had attempted to reconcile the economic needs of
                    workers and employers with the conservative social expectations of the community. They offered young
                    women a model of work that emphasized the temporary nature of employment; they also offered them
                    living spaces and recreational activities which safeguarded their femininity. But the wartime demand
                    for women's labor and WIS support for unions and better labor laws created new options for
                    female factory workers. Some women chose this alternative model of employment offered by the unions
                    and WIS, and they began to agitate for workplace rights, higher wages, and better jobs. The dilemma
                    of Fort 
                        Wayne
                    's factory girls, caught between these two models of personal and public life,
                    was solved in part over the next decades by the growth of unions, better state labor laws, and the
                    political gains created by women's suffrage. A fuller resolution, however, would await the
                    arrival of broader social opportunities for women, both at work and at home, in Fort 
                        Wayne
                     and across America.
            
               
                  54
                  Ibid., August 28, 1920, January 2, 6, 1921. Agatha
                        Diek left the Knitting Mills in June 1918 to found her own garment company to manufacture
                        women's work clothes; ibid., June 30, 1918. For information about
                        Diek's company and other Fort 
                            Wayne
                         overall manufacturers see ibid., May 2, 1920.
            
         
         
         
            The Significance of the National Lewis and Clark Commemoration
            
                    Robert R. Archibald
                    ∗
                
            The commemoration of the two hundredth anniversary of a transcontinental trek that began when
                    Meriwether Lewis met up with William Clark near Clarksville, Indiana, occurs in October 2003 at the
                    Falls of the 
                        Ohio
                    . The event will run from October 14 to 26, exactly two hundred years after the
                    explorers rendezvoused at the Falls, where they spent twelve days selecting members of the crew that
                    became the Corps of Discovery. While this, like other events in the two-year-long national
                    celebration of Lewis and Clark's expedition, will be an enjoyable occasion, in the end the
                    important question will be whether or not it will leave any discernible legacy and, if so, what that
                    legacy will be.
            To some extent the answer will depend upon how the commemoration affects the way future historians
                    explain the expedition. Certainly in the past historians have always interpreted Lewis and
                    Clark's adventure in ways that reflected their own times. For example, William Grimshaw
                    wrote a widely read national history in 1830, in the early years of the first industrial revolution,
                    as steamboats replaced keelboats and sailing ships and locomotives supplanted wagons drawn by
                    horses, mules, and oxen. From his vantage point, resources were unlimited, optimism was unbounded,
                    and there still seemed to be an inexhaustible supply of what people then called frontier.
                    Grimshaw's narrative placed little value on wilderness and none on Indian people. What was
                    important about the 
                        Louisiana
                     Purchase, he said, was that "a new field of enterprise is opened, and new
                    productions are added to the rich variety of their former catalogue." He viewed the
                    expedition as a commercial enterprise undertaken to "render the purchase of utmost benefit
                    … to explore the river 
                        Missouri
                     and the contiguous countries, and discover the best communication with the Pacific
                    Ocean." Grimshaw, who had no interest in the people who inhabited the lands described by
                    Lewis and Clark, also had no interest in the flora and fauna. For him, Indian people and native
                        
                  
                     ∗Robert R. Archibald is president of the 
                                Missouri
                             Historical Society and heads up the National Council of the Lewis and Clark
                            Bicentennial. Archibald holds a Ph.D. from the University of 
                                New Mexico
                             and is a former president of the 
                                Montana
                             Historical Society and former chair of the American Association for State and
                            Local History. His A Place to Remember: Using History to Build Community
                            was published in 1999.
               
                    
                    
                  JOURNALS OF WILLIAM CLARK,
                            1805-1806.
                  
                     
                                Missouri
                             Historical Society
                animals and plants were temporary impediments to progress: the land was to be settled,
                    farmed, and made to produce. Grimshaw's was the Jeffersonian vision of America.1
            
            In 1893, eighty-seven years after the expedition's return, Frederick Jackson Turner, a young
                    historian from 
                        Wisconsin
                    , told the annual assembly of the American Historical Association that according to the
                    standard definition, based on population density per square mile, the new census proved that the
                    frontier was gone. Americans had already used up the legacy that Jefferson had thought would last
                    for countless generations. In that process Indian people had been either killed or confined to
                    reservations and buffalo and grizzly bears nearly eradicated. In that same year Henry Adams,
                    descendant of the illustrious 
                        New England
                     Adamses, in his History of the United States during the Second
                        Administration of Thomas Jefferson, dismissed Lewis and Clark as marginal to American
                    history. 
                        Creditable as these expeditions were
                    , he said, 
                        they added little to the stock of science or wealth. Many years must elapse before the vast
                            region west of the 
                                Mississippi
                             could be brought within the reach of civilization.
                     Six years later 
                  
                     1 William Grimshaw, History of the United States from
                                Their First Settlement as Colonies to the Period of the Fifth Census in 1830 (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1835), 222-23. The first edition of Grimshaw's history was published
                            in 1820, the last in 1853, the year after he died, and there were many revisions in
                        between.
               
                     William Cullen Bryant included only one paragraph on the
                    expedition in his Scribner's Popular History of the United States.
               2
            
            But Americans began to lament what had been destroyed. The end of the frontier stimulated the birth
                    of the conservation movement, just as the near-extinction of bison led to federal efforts to protect
                    the animal. The disappearance of the frontier led Americans to ascribe value to wilderness and to
                    wax nostalgic about what they had never seen. The final defeat and confinement of Indian people
                    stimulated feelings of sympathy in some Americans and regret for injustices heaped upon people who
                    once were just in the way. But, despite the work of Indian policy reformers and early
                    conservationists, there were relatively few successful efforts to right those wrongs. Instead, the
                    lament over what was gone led to a romantic nostalgia for times past. By World War I America was an
                    urban nation, and the agrarian ideal was dashed. When Jefferson gave his instructions to Lewis the
                    nation was weak and tenuous; by the end of the century America was a world power. Dazed by the rapid
                    changes, many Americans longed for seemingly simpler times and romanticized the West.
            Historians too expressed these views. Ralph Henry Gabriel's The Lure of the
                        Frontier, published in 1929, elevated Lewis and Clark to heroic stature. The book included
                    Charles Russell's romantic images of valiant explorers and "noble
                    savages." Gabriel's biographical sketches of expedition members included one for
                    Sacagawea, who was portrayed for the first time as a heroine, a major figure in the saga. The
                    country had enfranchised women a few years earlier, and now the public was ready for female (and
                    Indian) heroism. Gabriel's portrayal of nature was also romantic; he saw it as inherently
                    beautiful—not threatening and not something to be overwhelmed and tamed.3
            
            Since 1929 thousands of Americans have been fascinated by this quintessential American adventure
                    story, the epic "foundation myth" of the West. Since 1969, when they formed a
                    special organization, the Lewis and Clark Trail Heritage Foundation, hundreds of scholars and
                    amateurs have examined every detail of the expedition. There is a rich bibliography of scholarly
                    historical work analyzing the expedition; novelists have written about it; film makers have
                    dramatized it; museums exhibit collections of its artifacts; and even environmental organizations
                    lay claim to the legacy.4
            
            
               
                  2Frederick Jackson Turner, "The Significance of the Frontier in
                        American History," in State Historical Society of 
                            Wisconsin
                        
                        Proceedings, 1894 (
                     Madison,
                                Wis.
                  , 1894); Henry Adams, History of the United States during the Second Administration of Thomas
                        Jefferson (1890; 
                            New York
                        : 1986), 751; William Cullen Bryant, Scribner's Popular
                            History of the United States (5 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1896), IV, 170.
               
                  3Ralph Henry Gabriel, The Lure of the Frontier: A Story of
                            Race Conflict (
                            New Haven
                        , Conn., c. 1929), 165-71.
               
                  4See, for example, James P. Ronda, ed., Voyages of Discovery:
                            Essays on the Lewis and Clark Expedition (Helena, Mont., 1998); Meriwether Lewis and
                        William Clark, The Journals of the Lewis and Clark Expedition, ed. by Gary E.
                        Moulton and Thomas W. Dunlay (13 vols., Lincoln, Neb., 1983–2001); Moulton, ed., The Lewis and
               
            
            
            
               MERIWETHER LEWIS IN SHOSHONE INDIAN DRESS. ENGRAVING BY STRICKLAND, AFTER ST. MEMIN (PAINTED 1807),
                            PUBLISHED IN
                        ANALECTIC MAGAZINE AND NAVAL CHRONICLE
                  , 1816.
               
                  
                            Missouri
                         Historical Society
            
            So, has all of this attention resulted in finding out something significantly new about Lewis and
                    Clark or discovering an enormous treasure trove of documents? It has not. The journals, the main
                    source 
                  
                            
                        Clark Journals: An American Epic of Discovery: The Abridgment of the
                                    Definitive 
                                        Nebraska
                                     Edition (Lincoln, Neb., 2003); Stephen E. Ambrose, Undaunted Courage: Meriwether Lewis, Thomas Jefferson, and the Opening of the
                                    American West (
                                    New York
                                , 1996). There is also a wide range of other books from a cookbook to
                                children's works. For films see Lewis & Clark: The Journey
                                    of the Corps of Discovery, dir. Ken Burns (VHS, PBS Home Video, 1997); and Lewis and Clark: Great Journey West, dir. Bruce Neibaur (DVD, National
                                Geographic Video, 2002).
                            The National Lewis and Clark Bicentennial Exhibition will open at the 
                                    Missouri
                                 Historical Society in 
                                    St. Louis
                                 in early 2004 and later travel across the country; information about the
                                exhibit is online at <www.lewisandclarkexhibit.org>. The Lewis and Clark
                                Bicentennial also has a website, <www.lewisandclark200.org>, which has a
                                comprehensive listing of events, programs, and other information.
                        
               
                     of information about the expedition, have been available to
                    every generation for almost two hundred years. Lewis and Clark have not changed, but Americans have.
            For my own part, I have rediscovered Lewis and Clark in these years leading up to the bicentennial. I
                    used to think this was just was one more among the hundreds of western civilization's
                    discovery stories—from Odysseus to Marco 
                        Polo
                    , Magellan, and 
                        Columbus
                    —in which the western heroes encounter (and often subdue) the exotic Others.
            But preparing for this commemoration has taught me that this story can be different. When Indians
                    from tribes along the trail still say, "this is where we met Lewis and Clark," it
                    suggests that the old stories have the potential for new meanings. They remind us, for example, that
                    Indian people lived in all the lands traversed by Lewis and Clark. They were at home. If we imagine
                    ourselves living in the Mandan villages or along the Clearwater or 
                        Columbia
                     rivers two hundred years ago, then Lewis and Clark were interlopers rather than
                    explorers. My object here is not to throw out traditional notions of Lewis and Clark as explorers
                    but to tell a story about these events that incorporates both the perspective of the Corps of
                    Discovery and that of the Indians whose land was intruded upon and without whose help the enterprise
                    would have failed.
            The map William Clark drew of the Lower 
                        Columbia
                     revealed dozens of Indian villages in the fertile valley of that river, showing that
                    this was a heavily populated land; in fact it was home to thousands of people, more heavily
                    populated than many of the United States to the east. So in what ways does it make sense to say that
                    Lewis and Clark "discovered" this place? How could they have described this land
                    as wilderness? What Lewis and Clark meant was that they were the first United States citizens to
                    have described the place officially. In the Enlightenment mentality that pervaded the worldviews of
                    the expedition's leaders, Indian land was wilderness because it was not inhabited by people
                    like themselves, by people who were civilized according to their definitions. Lewis and Clark could
                    not escape the boundaries of their own culture and view this encounter as a meeting between human
                    beings who were equal, though profoundly different. Of course, Lewis and Clark were not alone in
                    being blinded by convictions of their own superiority. We, too, often see the world that way. Our
                    own culture, our patterns of seeing and explaining the world, remain the norms against which we
                    judge all others. But two hundred years after the fact, perhaps we can attempt to regard the
                    cultural differences the expedition and the Indians discovered as indications of the variety and
                    potential of our species.
            One key to exploring these differences might be a yellowed map in the collections of the 
                        Missouri
                     Historical Society that was drawn for or by Clark according to instructions provided by
                    a Nez Perce guide. Before the expedition Lewis had been sent by President Thomas 
                    
                  PORTION OF A MAP OF "SUNDERY INDIANS OF THE CHOPPUNISH NATION [NEZ PERCE] 20-31 MAY 1806"
                                USED BY WILLIAM CLARK
                  
                  
                     
                                Missouri
                             Historical Society
               
                     Jefferson to the American Philosophical Society in 
                        Philadelphia
                     to learn to use navigational instruments, including the sextant, in order to be able to
                    determine his exact position on the globe during his travels. Jefferson wanted maps based on
                    measurements taken by compass, laid out according to latitude, longitude, mileage, altitude, and
                    distance. This vision is apparent to anyone who flies over the midwestern plains. There, imprinted
                    conspicuously on the land, is the idea of measurement, the very core of the Enlightenment's
                    approach to understanding the world. The land was divided into thousands of rectangular plots, and
                    the pattern was superimposed on the landscape by roads that neatly followed section and township
                    lines. The design was uninterrupted by rivers and landforms; it simply ignored them and repeated its
                    identical rectangular patterns forever. It was a way of preparing land for consumption, and it
                    directly reflected white Americans" ideas about land ownership, which require precise
                    descriptions of location.
            The Indian map, by contrast, did not include notations of latitude, longitude, compass directions, or
                    mileage. The map was changeable. Time of year was a crucial element in showing routes from one place
                    to another, especially when there were mountains between the traveler and his destination. There was
                    no point in showing a route over the Bitterroots in April, because such a route would have become a
                    death march. So the Indian map was chronological, time sensitive, and it portrayed
                    interrelationships between the land and the people who lived and traveled on it. The map showed
                    Clark's River, which is not even a river in the conventional sense but instead consists of
                    tributaries of several rivers that can be followed to a destination. In this map the landscape is
                    linked to people and animated by narrative, instead being of an assortment of passive resources to
                    be dominated, transformed, and exploited.
            Clark actually used the Nez Perce map as his guide—by 1806 he could read it and imagine
                    the world through Indian eyes. In this small but significant way his understanding of the world had
                    changed from what it had been two years earlier when he and the party shoved off from the Falls of
                    the 
                        Ohio
                    . Yet in the maps in the field journals and in the maps that were finally published,
                    this Indian view of the world was rejected and obliterated from the official record. In those maps
                    Lewis and Clark gave Jefferson and the country what they expected to see: a wilderness that had no
                    history, that was measured, located, and ready for the settlers who would soon come like a whirlwind
                    from the East, changing the land and decimating the people whose home it was. Lewis and Clark and
                    the corps members saw many things, but some things they apparently did not see.
            It is tempting to speculate about what might have been if America had taken a different course, if
                    its leaders had adopted the Indians" view and redefined land as sacred. How might our
                    ancestors have treated land differently if they had seen it as animated and sacred  instead of as an inert resource? What if the maps had been Indian maps,
                    storied maps? Although this was not possible for them, perhaps this bicentennial commemoration can
                    lead us to recapture an opportunity lost so many years ago. The United States" approach to
                    the land has been costly. The scientific evidence for adverse human impact on the earth is
                    unequivocal: the decline in biodiversity is alarming. Global warming threatens us all. Human
                    populations continue to soar. To understand what needs to be done to heal our relationship with the
                    land, we need to learn to make and read Indian maps.
            Meanwhile, the Lewis and Clark story offers a model of both tenacity and respect. The Indian people
                    and Lewis and Clark represented worlds that were profoundly alien to one another, but their
                    difference was mostly overwhelmed by amity and gestures of friendship. In an insecure world, a world
                    in which airplanes become missiles and sabres rattle around the globe, Sacagawea is an inspiration.
                    She was a woman between cultures, not just translating words but attempting to make alien societies
                    mutually intelligible, a skill desperately needed today. When Meriwether Lewis dressed in the
                    clothing of the Indian Cameahweat, he made a powerful gesture of common friendship across a vast
                    cultural abyss. The Indian people who refrained from annihilating the few dozen starving interlopers
                    showed generosity and forbearance in the face of provocation.
            The Nez Perce map has embedded in it a different way of imagining human relationships with the earth,
                    one that may hold the key to human survival in the future. The challenge in our time is to learn
                    that we are temporary trustees of our places and that we are obliged to hand them on in better
                    condition than we found them.
            The expedition also reminds us that our species is an adventurous one. Certainly the Corps of
                    Discovery was seeking the elusive (and illusory) water route across the continent that like the
                    fountain of youth had beckoned to explorers for centuries, and Jefferson's instructions
                    compelled them to be good observers and recorders of information about native people, flora, fauna,
                    and landforms. Undoubtedly, too, as Jefferson told Congress, the expedition members were to ferret
                    out commercial possibilities. Considering these practical reasons for the venture, it is easy to
                    overlook the human attraction to the lure of the unknown; we want to see what is around the bend,
                    over the mountain, down the river, up the river, across the ocean, or in the heavens. The journey
                    into the 
                        Louisiana
                     Territory demonstrates the risk people will endure to go where they have not gone, see
                    what they have not seen, and return to tell the tale. This adventure appeals to us even now in part
                    because it reflects this powerful human impulse.
            This bicentennial commemoration is an opportunity for members of this generation to join the journey,
                    to imagine the next chapter in an unfinished story about American encounters with the natural world
                    and alien cultures, a chapter that we must write. Remembering 
                    the Lewis and Clark expeditions, both as a cautionary tale and as a model for learning from Indian
                    people, we can acknowledge our intimate relationship with this earth. Above all we can recognize our
                    personal obligation to leave our places in better condition than we found them, to be good stewards.
                    We may even discover that what is good for humans—less consumption, for instance, and
                    expanded perspectives—is good for the planet as well. Responding to these opportunities,
                    we will make the bicentennial well worth the effort, and we will be changed for the better by the
                    celebration.
         
         
         
            INDIANA ARCHIVES: Indiana before Statehood
            
                    John M. Glen, Alan F. January, Suzanne K. Justice, Glenn L. McMullen, Saundra Taylor
                    ∗
                
            Even as Meriwether Lewis and William Clark were exploring land recently purchased from France, other
                    Euroamericans were establishing the political, economic, and social contours of the Indiana
                    Territory, the subject of this ninth installment of the Indiana Archives series. As the following
                    essays indicate, there is ample archival material for research in Indiana's history before
                    statehood. These resources suggest a variety of approaches and questions that researchers might
                    pursue to understand the beginnings of this particular section of the first American West.
            One way of examining this era is to emphasize place: the physical, economic, social, and political
                    environment in which people created what eventually became the nation's nineteenth state.
                    This view leads to investigations of the Indian tribes who originally inhabited the land; the first
                    white peoples of European background—initially French and Spanish, and later
                    English—who cooperated and competed with Native Americans and with one another; and the
                    white families whose migration from the East and South forced native peoples from the land despite
                    their resistance and whose presence prompted ordinances issued by a nascent federal government,
                    creating a governmental framework that would lead to statehood. Emphasizing its specific place and
                    people implicitly argues for the distinctiveness of Indiana's colonial experience.
            A second approach, in contrast, highlights instead the process of settlement. It contends that there
                    has been an essential continuity among successive waves of settlers moving westward in American
                    history. According to this view, Indiana was one of a series of North American frontiers, the late
                    eighteenth- and early nineteenth-century version of a familiar pattern of settlement involving
                    Indian, Euroamerican, and black men and women. Like frontiers before and after it,
                    Indiana's early history encompassed the displacement of Indian peoples, the drive 
                  
                     ∗ John M. Glen, general editor of the Indiana Archives
                            series, is professor of history, Ball State University, 
                                Muncie
                            , Indiana. Contributors to this installment of the series are Alan F. January,
                            archivist, Indiana Commission on Public Records, Archives Division, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana; Suzanne K Justice, archivist, Glenn A. Black Laboratory of
                            Archaeology, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana; Glenn L. McMullen, director, Manuscript and Visual Collections,
                            Indiana Historical Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana; and Saundra Taylor, curator of manuscripts, Lilly Library, Indiana
                            University, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
               
                     to gain control of relatively inexpensive land, and shifting
                    relationships among peoples that ultimately led to the organization and transformation of the
                    territory. This interpretation does not discount the unique elements of Indiana's frontier
                    past, since the timing and locale of this stage of America's westward expansion make it
                    qualitatively different from that found elsewhere. But it places that record within a national and
                    even international context, underscoring, among other commonalities, the importance of the national
                    state in the founding of Indiana.
            The contributors to this year's Archives survey describe a range of opportunities to probe
                    these and other, more specific, avenues of study. Suzanne K. Justice reveals the wealth of
                    ethnographic material on Native American tribes available at the Glenn A. Black Laboratory of
                    Archaeology, Indiana University 
                        Bloomington
                    . Saundra Taylor describes how printed sources, family manuscript collections, and
                    unpublished memoirs located at the Lilly Library, also at Indiana University 
                        Bloomington
                    , reveal much about the exploration and settlement of the Indiana Territory, including
                    the involvement of prominent citizens in various military expeditions. Alan F. January's
                    review of primary and printed materials held at the Indiana State Archives focuses on those
                    documents that delineate the legal processes that led to the formal organization of Indiana, first
                    as a territory and then as a state. And Glenn L. McMullen reviews the archival results of the
                    Indiana Historical Society's long and varied efforts to recover and document the history of
                    early Indiana and the Old Northwest.
            More than thirty years ago, John D. Barnhart and Dorothy L. Riker published Indiana to
                        1816: The Colonial Period (1971), the last major study of Indiana's early history
                    to build upon primary resources found within the state. Since then there have been various syntheses
                    of the era, most notably Andrew R. L. Cayton's Frontier Indiana (1996),
                    which have drawn upon more recent scholarship to raise intriguing questions about place, identity,
                    power, and consequence. The resources described in the essays that follow offer the basis for some
                    possible answers to these questions, or at the least for fresh understanding of the origins of
                        Indiana.1
            
            
                    Indiana before 1816: Resources of the Glenn A. Black Laboratory of Archaeology
                
            The Glenn A. Black Laboratory of Archaeology, located on the campus of Indiana University in 
                        Bloomington
                    , is a center for research and a repository for materials pertaining to the prehistoric
                    and early 
                  
                     1This article explores archival sources on frontier Indiana. Those
                            interested in locating material on the Lewis and Clark expedition might begin at the 
                                Missouri
                             Historical Society, 
                                St. Louis
                            ; the Jefferson National Expansion Memorial Archives, 
                                St. Louis
                            ; the Filson Historical Society, 
                                Louisville
                            ; and the 
                                Illinois
                             State Historical Society, 
                                Springfield
                            .
               
                     historic periods in the midwestern United States. Its resources
                    include archaeologically excavated artifacts, donated artifacts, excavation records, photographs,
                    site reports, published and unpublished library resources, and archival materials. Over fourteen
                    thousand years of Indiana's past are represented by the collections, from the Paleoindian
                    culture to the early explorers and settlers of the Indiana territory.
            The Black Laboratory curates over ten thousand collections, the contents of which total millions of
                    artifacts and other materials. Of these collections, about one thousand contain material from the
                    early historic period, but two of them, derived from field excavations, stand out as particularly
                    important sources of information about life in Indiana between European contact and statehood in
                    1816. The materials from the Fort Ouiatenon excavations conducted outside of 
                        Lafayette
                    , Indiana, vividly illustrate life in a frontier trading community. They are
                    particularly interesting because they include a wide range of artifacts from Native American tribes,
                    French voyageurs, Jesuit priests, and American explorers. All passed through the gates of Fort
                    Ouiatenon and left marks on the archaeological record that can be discerned through thoughtful
                    research and interpretation.2 Excavations at the Fort 
                        Knox
                     II site, near 
                        Vincennes
                    , Indiana, has yielded artifacts from the early Euroamerican military presence in
                    Indiana. Soldiers stationed at the U.S. fort located on this site fought in the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , among other military operations, and their artifacts enrich our understanding of a
                    frontier soldier's life.3 From regimental uniform buttons to discarded
                    provisions, each artifact from Fort 
                        Knox
                     II has the power to expand our understanding of this turbulent period.
            Researchers of early Indiana will also find the 
                        Ohio
                     Valley-Great Lakes Ethnohistory Archive, which is curated at the laboratory, to be
                    particularly interesting. It consists of over two hundred individual collections gathered by the 
                        Ohio
                     Valley-Great Lakes Ethnohistory Project, which was funded by the U.S. Department of
                    Justice from 1953 to 1966. The project's original purpose was to produce a detailed
                    analysis of Native American land use and tenure that federal officials could then use to develop a
                    defense against land claims and alleged treaty inequities that had been brought before the Indian
                    Claims Commission by Indian groups. For this reason, and despite its title, the ethnohistory archive
                    does not contain many documents that could be considered ethnographic. Nevertheless, the depth and
                    breadth of the information contained in it is staggering, and it is one of the single most important
                    achievements of historical research on early America.
            
               
                  2See J. Jones, 18th and early 19th Century Aboriginal and
                            Euroamerican Occupations in the Vicinity of 
                        Lafayette, Tippecanoe
                      County,
                            Indiana, 1984.
               
                  3See M. Grey, The Archaeolocial Investigations of Fort 
                                Knox
                             II: Glenn A. Black Laboratory of Archaeology Research Reports, No. 9 ([
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind.], 1988).
            
            
            The ethnohistory archive is divided into four parts: microfilm collections, tribal history documents,
                    Indian Claims Commission documents, and the general collections.4 There are more
                    than one thousand reels of microfilm from two hundred collections, reproducing original documents
                    from major archival holdings throughout the world, including the U.S. Library of Congress, every
                    midwestern state historical society, the British Museum, and the Public Archives of Canada and
                    France, and bringing them together in one accessible place. It should be noted that many of the
                    documents have neither been translated nor transcribed but are simply duplicated. One of the most
                    consulted collections within the microfilm archive is the "Letters Received from the Bureau
                    of Indian Affairs," which contains correspondence gathered from all thirteen Indian agents
                    within the midwestern United States.
            The most frequently used portion of the archive is the tribal history documents section, which
                    consists of more than 800 binders organized by common tribal name and then by date. The tribal
                    binders contain information transcribed or copied from published material, microfilm, and other
                    original sources. This collection is unique in scope, spanning over three hundred years of
                    Native-Euroamerican relations, and it is one of the most comprehensive collections of ethnohistoric
                    data in existence for Indian groups. The tribes represented in the archive are the following: 
                  Chippewa (Ojibwa): 95 volumes covering the years 1613-1927
                  
                     
                                Delaware
                            : 75 volumes covering the years 1600-1927
                  Fox: 29 volumes covering the years 1600-1890
                  Huron (Wyandot): 68 volumes covering the years 1608-1910
                  
                     
                                Illinois
                            : 29 volumes covering the years 1640-1902
                  Kickapoo: 37 volumes covering the years 1600-1957
                  Mascouten: 11 volumes covering the years 1600-1825
                  Menomini: 12 volumes covering the years 1600-1883
                  Miami (including Miami, Wea, Piankashaw, and Eel River): 63 volumes
                            covering the years 1600-1876
                  
                     
                                Ottawa
                            : 79 volumes covering the years 1600-1900
                  Potawatomi: 82 volumes covering the years 1600-1898
                  Sac: 34 volumes covering the years 1600-1884
                  Seneca: 53 volumes covering the years 1550-1883
                  Shawnee: 87 volumes covering the years 1540-1896
                  Sioux: 21 volumes covering the years 1670-1902
                  Winnebago: 27 volumes covering the years 1600-1909
               
            
            
               
                  4All of the archive is indexed to some degree, and an overview of the
                        collections is available at the Glenn A. Black Laboratory's website
                        <www.gbl.indiana.edu> or in D. Miller, A Guide to the 
                                Ohio
                             Valley-Great Lakes Ethnohistory Archive: Glenn A. Black Laboratory of
                            Archaeology Reports, No. 4 ([
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind.], 1979).
            
            
            The Indian Claims Commission Collection is made up of thirty-seven boxes of material relating to the
                    history of claims brought against the Indian Claims Commission and includes defendants"
                    exhibits, Department of Justice internal publications concerning cases, announcements of the
                    commission's decisions, and research reports written by the staff of the 
                        Ohio
                     Valley-Great Lakes Ethnohistory Project. The material is organized by Royce Area number
                    (which identifies specific areas of Indian lands) and is unbound.5 Four boxes of
                    material related to Royce Area number 11 and a single box of material for Royce Area number 26
                    include dockets and defendants" exhibits and other material pertaining to the Treaty of
                    Greenville and the related treaty claims.
            The General Collection of the 
                        Ohio
                     Valley-Great Lakes Ethnohistory Archive contains supplementary materials, secondary
                    sources, indices, and tribal files that support the archive's other collections. It also
                    includes several hundred photo reproductions of historic maps covering the midwestern United States.
                    Although many of the index files in this collection are incomplete, they are nevertheless useful
                    resources for research in the early historic period. The index used most frequently is that of
                    Indian Names, which provides a useful cross-reference for tribal identification and treaty location.
                    Also useful is the Tribal File index, which includes Chippewa, 
                        Delaware
                    , Fox, Huron, Miami, Winnebago, Potawatomi, and Shawnee materials.
            As an ongoing project, the Glenn A. Black Laboratory is working to provide access to many of the
                    materials in the Great Lakes-
                        Ohio
                     Valley Ethnohistory Archive through its website <www.gbl.indiana.edu>.
                    Many of the materials that make up the Miami Tribal History Collection, in particular, are available
                    on-line, as is an in-depth description of the ethnohistory archive and other resources available
                    through the Black Laboratory.
            Limited access to the collections in the laboratory is available to all qualified scholars upon
                    application to the director, following the procedure outlined in our registration forms. The
                    materials contained in the 
                        Ohio
                     Valley-Great Lakes Ethnohistory Archive, together with the millions of archaeological
                    artifacts recovered from sites throughout our state, provide an unequaled glimpse into life in
                    Indiana before 1816.
            
                    Early Indiana History Documents at the Lilly Library, Indiana University
                
            The earliest documents relating to Indiana that are in the Lilly Library at Indiana University are
                    certified typescripts of documents preserved in the judicial archives at the National Archives of
                    Canada 
                  
                     5For an explanation of Royce Area numbers see Bureau of American
                            Ethnology, 18th Annual Report, 1899 (Washington, D.C., 1899).
               
                     and photostatic copies of eight documents located in the 
                        Chicago
                     Historical Society. They date from approximately 1718 to 1763 and concern the French in
                    Indiana, particularly the posts at Ouiatenon and Miami. However, even earlier than these documents
                    is the first printed book containing a description of any part of the present state of Indiana: Dernières découvertes dans l"Amérique
                        Septentrionale de m. de La Sale; mises au jour par m. le chevalier Tonti, gouverneur du Fort
                        Saint Loüis, aux Islinois (A 
                        Paris
                    , Au palais, J. Guignard, 1697). Robert Cavelier de La Salle's party, in
                    passing from the 
                        St. Joseph
                     River to the Kankakee River in December 1679, used the portage where 
                        South Bend
                     now stands. This work was first translated into English in 1698, and the Lilly Library
                    has first editions of both the French and English publications.
            Two small collections, the Lasselle and the Harrison Township, 
                        Knox County
                    , Indiana groups, as well as several individual documents in the Indiana History series,
                    detail activities in and around 
                        Vincennes
                    , Indiana, in the eighteenth century. The Lasselle collection consists of documents
                    assembled by Hyacinth Lasselle (1806–1876) for the use of the heirs of Francois Bosseron
                    in presenting claims to Congress for reimbursement for provisions supplied by Bosseron to the army
                    under George Rogers Clark during the American Revolution. Included is a letter from Clark to
                    Bosseron, dated August 10, 1778, appointing him captain of a militia company at Post 
                        Vincennes
                    . Some historians have suggested that this is possibly the first commission given in
                    Indiana. The latest item in the collection, dated January 15, 1840, is a letter from Lasselle to
                    William Henry Harrison recounting the history of the citizens of 
                        Vincennes
                     who joined the "American cause" in the Revolution,
                    Bosseron's appointment as commander, and Clark's recapture of 
                        Vincennes
                     in February 1779.
            The territorial period of Indiana's history was characterized by struggles with Indians and
                    with the British from Canada. Several individual items document the conflicts with the Indians,
                    including official receipts to John Wilkins, quartermaster general of the U.S. Army from
                    1796–1812, and selected letters and papers of Charles Willing Byrd, secretary of the
                    Northwest Territory, 1799–1803. The William Henry Harrison manuscript II collection
                    includes receipts for provisions and whiskey for army personnel and requisitions of food and whiskey
                    for Indiana, dating from January 1794 to September 1795 and signed by Harrison as aide-de-camp to
                    Gen. Anthony 
                        Wayne
                     during his campaign against the Indians in 
                        Ohio
                     and the ensuing treaty negotiations; it also contains requisitions to the quartermaster
                    for supplies for the garrison at Fort Washington, 
                        Ohio
                    , 1796–1798, where Harrison was commandant. In addition, the collection
                    includes personal and official letters from Harrison, 1803–1811, and letters and papers,
                    1812–1814, of the quartermaster's department of the Northwestern Army under
                    Harrison's command.
            
            Early nineteenth-century documents located in the Samuel Judah family papers consist of receipts and
                    payment vouchers signed by John Gibson as secretary of the Indiana Territory. Of particular interest
                    here is payment for taking a "census of the inhabitants of the Indiana Territory,"
                    dated July 4, 1801. Two important printed items from this first decade of the century include Letter from the Secretary of State, accompanying certain laws of the North-western and
                        Indiana territories of the United States, in pursuance of a resolution of the House of the 24th
                        ultimo. 14th January, 1802. Ordered to lie on the table, (Washington, 1802?). Signed by
                    James 
                        Madison
                    , this was an act levying a territory tax on land. The second item is an extremely rare
                    copy of the first map printed in 
                        Kentucky
                    : A Map of the Rapids of the 
                            Ohio
                         River, and the Countries on each side there of, as to include the routes
                        contemplated for Canal Navigation (Engraved and printed by John Goodman,
                            
                  Frankfort, Kentucky
               , 1806). The map represents one of the earliest schemes to
                    build a canal to bypass the hazardous rapids at 
                        Louisville
                    .
            Without question the best-documented era of early Indiana history in the Lilly Library is the period
                    from about 1811 until the constitutional convention in 1816. In addition to the Harrison files noted
                    above, there are significant printed materials dating from this period. One in particular is a rare
                    broadside entitled A Bloody Battle Between the United States Troops under the command
                        of Gov. Harrison and several tribes of Indians, near the Prophet's town, Nov. 7th,
                    1811, which contains eight stanzas of poetry praising the heroic actions of Harrison's
                    troops in the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    . This stands in some contrast to a December 4, 1811, letter written by John Badollet,
                    land commissioner in 
                        Vincennes
                    , to Jonathan Jennings, delegate to Congress from the Indiana Territory, commenting on
                    the Indian situation before and during the battle: 
                        Notwithstanding the repeated entreaties of the Prophet and his band for peace, Our Western
                            Alexander pushed on to their town…. Til then the Indians had not committed one
                            act of hostility….
                     This letter, acquired by the Lilly Library less than a decade ago, is the copy retained by
                    Badollet.
            Several manuscript collections at the Lilly Library have significant documents dealing with the War
                    of 1812, some relating to contemporary events and others in the form of memoirs or reminiscences
                    written later.6 The Return Jonathan Meigs papers include letters and papers
                    relating to Indian disturbances in Indiana and 
                        Ohio
                     in 1811; raising 
                        Ohio
                     troops that participated in the Hull campaign, which culminated in the surrender of 
                        Detroit
                     to the British in August 1812; and Meigs's 
                  
                     6The Lilly Library's War of 1812 collections include more
                            than 12,000 manuscript items, about 1,250 books and pamphlets, nearly 200 prints and
                            broadsides, and a few periodicals and newspaper files that cover the war years. Most of
                            these materials relate to the east coast and naval encounters, but there are also many
                            documents that are concerned with the Northwest Territory.
               
                     accounts of disbursements, July 1812–September 1813,
                    in connection with a council at 
                  Urbana, Ohio
               , and one at Piqua, 
                        Ohio
                    . In yet another collection one can find William Henry Harrison's letter 
                        to the Chiefs and Head Warriors of the 
                                Delaware
                            , Miami, Wea, Eel River, Kickapoo, Potowatimie and Winebago
                            Tribes of Indiana,
                     inviting them to the gathering at Piqua.
            The Boyd collection consists primarily of letters to Gen. John Parker Boyd, beginning with orders to
                    him as commander of the Fourth Infantry Regiment to reinforce Harrison's troops just before
                    the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    . Also present is Henry Dearborn's letter of farewell, dated July 15, 1813,
                    addressed to Boyd and the field officers of the army at Fort George, and instructions from Gen.
                    James Wilkinson at Sacketts Harbor and Grenadier Island during the 1813 campaign against Canada.
            Another active participant in the settlement and development of Indiana was William Polke, who moved
                    from 
                        Kentucky
                     to 
                        Knox County
                    , Indiana Territory, in 1806. There he was appointed justice of the peace in 1808, and
                    that appointment, signed by Harrison, is in his papers. Polke was also active in the local militia,
                    present at the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     as a ranger under Harrison, and on September 29, 1812, was appointed "Captain
                    of Spyes" at 
                        Vincennes
                    . Polke served as a delegate to the constitutional convention of 1816 but,
                    unfortunately, not a single document concerning that service at the convention survives in his
                    collection.
            Memoirs and reminiscences of the War of 1812 are found in the Samuel Williams papers, the Daniel
                    Isgrig papers, the autobiography of Eli Farmer, and the "Memoirs" of 
                        Milton
                     Stapp. The Lilly Library also has a small group of letters from John Armstrong, Jr.,
                    secretary of war between February 1813 and September 1814, to Col. John J. Abert in the 1830s, in
                    which Armstrong comments on the battles of lakes Erie and 
                        Ontario
                     and offers reasons for the failure of the attack from his point of view as a former
                    cabinet member. Armstrong's comments to Abert appear as part of his request for copies of
                    certain letters and documents that he wanted in the preparation of his Notices of the
                        War of 1812 (
                        New York
                    , 1836–1840).
            Even as political and military officials were establishing the rudimentary boundaries of Indiana,
                    other pioneers regarded the region as a social laboratory, as reflected in the small Rappite
                    collection in the Lilly Library. The Harmony Society, founded by George Rapp, organized the town of
                    Harmony on the 
                        Wabash
                     River in 1814. The letters in the Rappite collection are written from Beaverpointe to
                    Frederick Rapp, George's adopted son, then living in Harmonie, Indiana Territory.
            Meanwhile, the daily business life in early nineteenth- century Indiana can be found in the daybooks
                    of the Jones and Stockwell merchandise store, which opened in March 1815 in 
                        Princeton
                    , Indiana. The first volume includes daily entries for sales from November 1815  through May 1819. Though sales were entered both Christmas Day
                    1815 and New Year's Day 1816, none were recorded on those days in the years following.
            There is very little in the Lilly Library concerning the constitutional convention of 1816. However,
                    it holds a first printing of the Journal of the Convention of the Indiana Territory:
                        begun and held at the Town of Corydon, in the County of Harrison, and Territory aforesaid, on
                        the second Monday in June, being the tenth day thereof, in the Year of Our Lord, One Thousand
                        Eight Hundred and Sixteen, and of the Independence of the United States, the Fortieth (
                        Louisville
                    : 
                        Butler
                     and Wood, 1816), as well as the first printing of the Constitution itself: The Constitution of the state of Indiana. Adopted in Convention, at Cory don, on the
                        twenty-ninth day of June, in the year of Our Lord Eighteen Hundred and Sixteen, and of the
                        Independence of the United States, the Fortieth (
                        Louisville
                    : 
                        Butler
                     and Wood, 1816).
            
                    Territorial Records in the Indiana State Archives
                
            Territorial documents comprise a small but important group of records in the Indiana State Archives.
                    The number of documents that survive is surprising, considering the vicissitudes of time and the
                    frequent relocation of the seat of government. The bulk of the records was created by the judicial,
                    executive, and legislative branches of territorial government, but these can be supplemented by a
                    variety of records created by local and federal offices.
            The case files for the General Court of the Northwest Territory and the Indiana Territory cover the
                    period from 1791 to 1816. In some instances a case's entire documentation exists; in others
                    only one document survives. There is a finding aid that is searchable by the names of the parties to
                    the case, by the date of the case, and by the type of case (e.g., debt, trespass, divorce, assault
                    and battery). Family history researchers will find the name index particularly useful. Unusual
                    research subjects include slave replevin (i.e., the capture and return of escaped slaves via their
                    legal definition as property) and trading with Indians. In addition to the case files, the State
                    Archives has the two order books of the General Court of Indiana Territory, 1801–1816,
                    the docket book, and minutes of the court.
            Four individuals—Arthur St. Clair, William Henry Harrison, John Gibson, and Thomas
                    Posey—served as governors of the Northwest and Indiana Territories. The State Archives
                    has five manuscript boxes of Governor's Correspondence dating between 1793 and 1816. These
                    consist primarily of recommendations, petitions, memorials, appointments, and other miscellaneous
                    subjects. Four boxes of Governor's Military Correspondence reflect the importance of the
                    militia on the frontier. All of these territorial manuscripts can be searched by name and by subject
                    in a database prepared by the State Archives. Fields for each manuscript in the database include
                    date, agency, county, and record  title. Typical subjects
                    include elections, recommendations, militia appointments, Indians, and judges. Family history
                    researchers will find the lengthy petitions to the governor a fertile source for names of pioneer
                    ancestors.
            The gubernatorial correspondence in the State Archives should be supplemented by the two-volume
                    printed edition of the messages and papers of Governors Harrison, Gibson, and Posey, issued in 1922
                    by the Indiana Historical Bureau.
            In addition to correspondence, the State Archives holds the Journal of the Proceedings
                        of the Executive Department of Indiana Territory, 1800–1816. This important
                    volume, which contains the record of hundreds of appointments to local office, was transcribed and
                    published in 1900. The Indiana Historical Society produced a reprint, with an index, in 1985. Three
                    volumes kept by the Treasurer of Indiana Territory are also in the Archives: the Account (Day) Book,
                    1806–1814, the Treasurer's Ledger Book, 1806–1815, and Collector of
                    Revenue Allan D. Thorn's Account Book for 1814–1816. Together these give a good
                    picture of the finances of the territory. Another executive officer, the Attorney General, is
                    represented by one manuscript box of records. There is also one box of election returns covering the
                    years 1803–1816.
            The second or representative stage of government in Indiana Territory began on January 3, 1805, with
                    the election of nine representatives to the lower house of the General Assembly. The manuscript
                    journals for most of the sessions of the General Assembly between 1805 and 1815 are in the State
                    Archives. Regretfully, the record is not complete. There are no journals for the sessions of 1806,
                    1807, and 1810. Only one journal for the upper house, then called the Legislative Council, for the
                    session of 1813–1814 has been located. Gayle Thornbrough and Dorothy Riker transcribed
                    and edited the ten surviving journals and published them as Journals of the General
                        Assembly of Indiana Territory, 1805–1815 (
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1950). For the sessions of 1806, 1807, and 1810, the editors relied upon newspaper
                    accounts and other documents to illustrate the work of the sessions. The annotations and the
                    biographical sketches of the members of the territorial General Assembly make this volume an
                    indispensable source of information for the territorial period of Indiana.
            Territorial lawmakers first met at 
                        Vincennes
                    , then in 1813 the capital moved to Corydon. During eleven regular and two special
                    sessions the General Assembly enacted hundreds of acts and resolutions. The handwritten manuscript
                    copies of 433 of these pieces of legislation are preserved in the Indiana State Archives. An
                    inventory is available. The laws adopted at the first session were printed in 
                  Frankfort, Kentucky
               . Elihu Stout of 
                        Vincennes
                     published the laws passed at subsequent sessions until the removal of the capital to
                    Corydon. The last territorial session laws were printed at 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Lexington
                    . Printed copies of these session laws are very scarce today. All of the  laws are reprinted in a two-volume compilation entitled Laws of Indiana Territory (
                        Springfield
                    , 111., and 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1930). Francis S. Philbrick edited the first volume, which covers 1801 through 1809.
                    The second volume, edited by Louis B. Ewbank and Dorothy Riker, picks up in 1809 and closes in 1816.
                    Legislation passed before the creation of the Indiana Territory is reprinted in The
                        Laws of the Northwest Territory, 1788–1800 (
                        Springfield
                    , Ill., 1925), edited by Theodore C. Pease.
            Territorial lawmakers devoted much of each session to organizing government on the frontier. They set
                    up counties and established courts and lesser offices of government such as sheriffs, surveyors, and
                    river pilots. They levied fees and taxes. The physical needs of a raw country were of special
                    concern. The General Assembly passed legislation establishing ferries and gristmills, improving
                    river navigation and roads, encouraging the killing of wolves and other predators, organizing a
                    militia, and regulating trade with the Indians. Aspirations to a higher civilization led to the
                    incorporation of towns, churches, seminaries, and "a university in the Indiana
                    Territory," as well as laws for the support of illegitimate children and inspection of
                    flour, beef, and pork. As the territory prospered there were acts for the incorporation of banks and
                    canal companies. Private legislation granting divorce and relief of individuals became more common,
                    as did sumptuary legislation licensing taverns and for "the prevention of vice and
                    immorality."
            Bills and resolutions concerning slavery came up at almost every session of the territorial General
                    Assembly. The session of 1805 passed a bill allowing any person owning or purchasing slaves outside
                    the territory to bring them to Indiana and bind them to service. Indentures were to be recorded with
                    the county clerk. The State Archives has the original indenture book for 
                        Clark County
                     and a copy of the 
                        Knox County
                     book on microfilm.
            Before 1800 the only land owned by individuals in Indiana Territory was either in and around 
                        Vincennes
                    , where titles went back to the French donations, or in Clark's Grant, which
                    had been allotted by the state of 
                        Virginia
                     to the men who served with George Rogers Clark in his Revolutionary War campaign
                    against the British. The State Archives has the Official Plat Book of Clark's Grant made by
                    William Clark between 1789 and 1810. The earliest document in the State Archives is the Minute Book
                    of the Town of Clarksville, which dates from 1784. Photostats of the land claims in the District of 
                        Vincennes
                    , from the American State Papers, are available.
            Sales of public lands in Indiana Territory in the southeastern area of the territory known as the
                    "Gore," began in 1801 at 
                        Cincinnati
                    . The State Archives has copies of the two tract books recording all Indiana land sales
                    out of the 
                        Cincinnati
                     District between 1801 and 1840.
            The first two federal land offices in Indiana were at 
                        Vincennes
                     and 
                        Jeffersonville
                    . Sales at these two offices began in 1807 and 1808,  respectively. The State Archives has the surveyors" field notes, plat books, tract
                    books, registers of receipts, Registers and Receivers journals, and miscellaneous records from both
                    land districts. Volunteers from Friends of the Indiana State Archives are currently indexing the
                    names of purchasers in the 
                        Vincennes
                     Land District.
            The State Archives has several microfilm series from the National Archives concerning Indiana
                    Territory. These include the General Land Office's miscellaneous letters sent to district
                    officers and letters to surveyors general, the latter series dating from 1796. Letters sent by the
                    war department involving military and Indian affairs and correspondence received by the secretary of
                    war begin in 1800. Also available are photostatic copies from the National Archives of the muster
                    and payroll records for Indiana militia called into service at the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     and the War of 1812.
            Records from several counties formed before 1816 were microfilmed by the Works Progress
                    Administration (WPA) in the 1930s. Copies of these microfilms are available at the Indiana State
                    Archives.
            The territorial period in Indiana ended in 1816 with admission to statehood. Forty-three delegates
                    from thirteen counties met at Corydon in the summer of 1816 to frame a state constitution. Drafting
                    the document took only eighteen days. Two handwritten copies of the constitution were made by Dr.
                    David H. Maxwell, a delegate from 
                        Jefferson County
                    . One of these, housed today at the State Archives, has been in the hands of the State
                    of Indiana continuously since 1816. It was restored in 1995 by conservator James Canary of Indiana
                    University with funds provided by the Indiana Bar Foundation. It is displayed today in the Indiana
                    State House during legislative sessions in a special case constructed with funds provided by the
                    Indiana State Bar Association. The case is decorated with a veneer of wood from the
                    "Constitution Elm" under which delegates at Corydon sat during their deliberations
                    in 1816.
            
                    Old Northwest and Indiana Territory Holdings at the Indiana Historical Society
                
            When the Indiana Historical Society was founded in 1830, its objects included "the
                    collection and preservation of all materials calculated to shed light on the natural, civil and
                    political history of Indiana." Despite this goal, the society collected research materials
                    only intermittently in the nineteenth century, and some of the material it collected was lost during
                    and after the Civil War. Indeed, the society's library and research collections lacked a
                    physical facility until 1934, when the William Henry Smith Memorial Library opened inside the
                    Indiana State Library Building.
            Yet from its origins, the Indiana Historical Society and its Smith Library have concentrated their
                    collecting efforts on early Indiana history and the history of the Old Northwest. Though some of the
                    materials gathered in the nineteenth century have disappeared, several  manuscripts that are still treasures in the library's Old
                    Northwest collection—such as Patrick Henry's "secret orders"
                    to George Rogers Clark—were archived as early as 1859. Indeed, even as late as the 1970s,
                    many of the library's new acquisitions described in the Society's annual reports
                    dated from the eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries. It has only been since the 1980s that the
                    Smith Library has focused on the period from the Civil War to the present.
            Any attempt to describe the manuscript holdings of the Smith Library on Indiana history before
                    statehood must begin with the caveat that many of these documents are located in what archivists
                    call "artificial" collections. The Society's Northwest Territory
                    Collection is not an organic body of materials created by an individual, family, or government body,
                    but the result of hundreds of piecemeal acquisitions through purchase and donation. The same can be
                    said of the William Henry Harrison and Indiana Territory collections: each of these has been built
                    up over many years piece by piece. Other collections of personal and family papers from the period
                    are in fact "true" provenance-based collections, however. These include such
                    manuscript groups as the papers of Francis Vigo and John Armstrong, described below. It is also
                    important to note that any description of the Smith Library's territorial holdings can only
                    highlight a representative sample of its many collections and individual items.
            One of the earliest and most valuable collections containing pre-statehood materials is the Arthur G.
                    Mitten Collection, 1755–1936. Mitten was a railroad executive and collector of historical
                    manuscripts, including correspondence and other signed documents generated by military and
                    government officials, and graphics. Mitten concentrated on William Henry Harrison and the Northwest
                    Territory. His collection includes the papers of Arthur St. Clair, first governor of the Northwest
                    Territory, and the papers of James Taylor, quartermaster of the Eighth Military District in the War
                    of 1812. At an early date, the Smith Library separated the Harrison materials from the rest of his
                    collection, and these papers became the foundation for the library's William Henry Harrison
                    Collection, described below.
            Albert G. Porter, Indiana's governor from 1881 to 1885, was another collector of early
                    Indiana materials whose papers are held by the Smith Library. From 1891 until his death in 1897,
                    Porter gathered historical materials for a history of Indiana, including papers of Benjamin Parke,
                    an Indiana territorial delegate to Congress and judge, and documents on the early history of 
                        Vincennes
                    . Though Porter's history was never completed, the materials he collected are
                    available for others to build upon.
            A centerpiece of the library's early Indiana collections is the Northwest Territory
                    Collection (officially, the Old Northwest Papers and documents, 1721–1802). The
                    collection documents the exploration, settlement, and administration of the Old Northwest and the
                    Northwest Territory. With hundreds of individual documents, the collection  defies generalization. Some of the topics it covers include French
                    fur-trading expeditions; French and British influence in the Northwest Territory; government
                    relations, conflicts, and treaties with Native Americans; George Rogers Clark's expeditions
                    against 
                        Vincennes
                     and Kaskaskia; military actions in the West during the American Revolution; and the
                    administration of the Northwest Territory.
            Individual documents in the Northwest Territory Collection include a very early fur-trading contract
                    between trader Charles Fabureau and the Sieur Dumont, who temporarily commanded the French post at
                    Miamis (now Fort 
                        Wayne
                    ) from 1721; an inventory of goods belonging to Sieur Fontenay Douville, signed by the
                    Sieur de 
                        Vincennes
                     at the post of the 
                        Wabash
                     (
                        Vincennes
                    ), from 1732; and the farewell proclamation of Louis Ange, French commandant at 
                        Vincennes
                     for a quarter-century, to the people of 
                        Vincennes
                     following the Treaty of 
                        Paris
                    , dating from 1764.
            Perhaps the best-known individual document in the Northwest Territory Collection is 
                        Virginia
                     governor Patrick Henry's secret orders to George Rogers Clark, dated January
                    2, 1778, authorizing Clark's expedition against the British post of Kaskaskia. Clark
                    successfully captured the post on July 4 of that year, and the capture of 
                        Vincennes
                     followed soon thereafter. Another significant individual piece is one of three hundred 
                        Virginia
                     Land Office treasury warrants issued to Clark in 1780, used by him to recruit a
                    battalion for an expedition northwest of the 
                        Ohio
                     River and issued in place of land grants.
            An anonymous journal of a military officer who took part in Anthony 
                        Wayne
                    's campaign of 1794, which ended with victory at the Battle of Fallen Timbers,
                    is another high point of the Northwest Territory Collection. The journal provides a rare first-hand
                    account of the campaign as well as information on the internal conflicts between 
                        Wayne
                     and his subordinate, Gen. James Wilkinson. The author, whose identity is unknown, sided
                    with Wilkinson.
            Euroamerican relations with Native Americans are one of the main topics in the Northwest Territory
                    Collection. Individual items of note include a contemporary copy of a speech sent from the chiefs of
                    the Delawares, Munsies, and Mohikans in 1771, opposing colonial encroachment, and a 1798 bill of
                    Anthony Shane to the United States for his services as an interpreter of Indian languages.
            The Northwest Territory Collection is buttressed by a number of collections of personal and family
                    papers. Among them are the John Armstrong papers, documenting his career as a soldier from 1776 to
                    1793 and his service as commandant at Fort Pitt and Fort 
                        Hamilton
                     and treasurer of the Northwest Territory. Papers from his military career include
                    letters and reports to Wilkinson, 
                        Wayne
                    , and St. Clair, dealing with military supplies and relations with Indians and settlers.
            Another army officer in the Northwest Territory, Samuel C. Vance, was deputy paymaster at Fort
                    Washington, near 
                        Cincinnati
                    ,  from 1791 to 1802. Beginning in 1803, he was a
                    merchant and land speculator in 
                        Dearborn County
                    , Indiana. Vance's papers include materials relating to his administration of
                    the paymaster's office and his mercantile business.
            The papers of Francis Vigo, a fur trader born in Italy who provided financial assistance and
                    intelligence to George Rogers Clark, form another important collection. In 1783 Vigo moved to 
                        Vincennes
                     as a fur trader, assisting Anthony 
                        Wayne
                     and William Henry Harrison in negotiations with American Indians. This collection
                    includes both Vigo's business and personal papers. Topics include the fur trade at 
                        Vincennes
                    , Fort 
                  Wayne, Detroit
               , and Montreal; business dealings with Native Americans; and
                    Vigo's work on behalf of 
                        Wayne
                     and Harrison.
            The proceedings of the Clark's Grant board of commissioners, 1783–1846, include
                    minutes of the board and records of lands granted and applications refused. The Clark's
                    Grant Commission was created in 1781 to oversee the awarding of 150,000 acres set aside for soldiers
                    who served with George Rogers Clark.
            Benjamin Sebastian was a 
                        Kentucky
                     attorney and judge who was involved in the Spanish Conspiracy to separate 
                        Kentucky
                     and the western country from the United States in 1796. His papers, dating from 1795 to
                    1807, document his involvement in that effort and the controversy surrounding it.
            Harrison played a central role in the history of the Northwest Territory and Indiana Territory as
                    army officer, territorial secretary, delegate to Congress, governor of the Indiana Territory from
                    1800 to 1813, and brigadier general in the War of 1812. The Harrison papers in the Smith Library
                    collection originated with a group collected by Mitten but also include other documents collected
                    over many years by the library staff. Among them are letters to U.S. secretaries of war regarding
                    Indian relations, treaties, and military operations, as well as War of 1812 military correspondence.
                    Northwest and Indiana territory political and administrative papers consist of appointments,
                    legislative documents, and petitions. Notable individual items in the collection include an 1809
                    letter from Harrison to Wilson C. Nichols seeking support for Harrison's reappointment as
                    governor of the Indiana Territory. Harrison's 1812 letter to Secretary of War William
                    Eustis was written shortly after Harrison returned to 
                        Vincennes
                     from the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     battlefield and commended the service of George Croghan in the campaign, supporting a
                    commission for him in the U.S. Army. An 1823 letter from Harrison to Moses Dawson contains
                    Harrison's recollections of the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    .
            Like the Northwest Territory Collection, the Indiana Territory Collection is an artificial archival
                    group, encompassing correspondence, documents, and legislative acts related to the Indiana Territory
                    and dating from 1800 to 1816. Much of the correspondence deals with military matters at various
                    garrisons and with treaties and relations  with Native
                    Americans. There are also manuscript copies of 1811 acts of the territorial legislature dealing with
                    land tax, arbitration regulation, and writs of habeas corpus.
            The papers of Thomas Posey, governor of the Indiana Territory from 1813 to 1816, contain
                    correspondence and papers from his military service in the American revolutionary period and the
                    1790s, including a 1794 four-page letter to Gen. 
                        Wayne
                     relating to Indian problems in the Old Northwest, and as governor of the Indiana
                    Territory. The collection also includes a lengthy autobiography of Posey and an equally long letter
                    of advice offered to his children and grandchildren in 1814.
            Although politics, administration, and military affairs are central to many of the Indiana Territory
                    collections, social and family life, economic conditions, and immigration are also documented. The
                    papers of women from this period are rare, making a small collection of Catherine Lawrence 
                        Randolph
                    's papers (1802–1824) noteworthy both for their content and for the
                    author's gender. 
                        Randolph
                     was the granddaughter of Arthur St. Clair and the wife of Thomas 
                        Randolph
                    , Indiana Territory attorney general from 1808 to 1811. Correspondence written among
                    family members contains references to local affairs. The papers of Louis Gex Obussier, who emigrated
                    from 
                        Switzerland
                     to the Swiss settlement at 
                        Vevay
                    , where he farmed from 1804 to 1826, include correspondence and business records
                    concerning supplies for the 
                        Vevay
                     settlement. The Christian Graeter account books register the accounts of a tavern owner
                    and businessman in 
                        Vincennes
                     from 1809 to 1824.
            With statehood in 1816 came Indiana's first constitution. The Smith Library contains one of
                    two extant manuscript copies of the 1816 Indiana constitution. Another copy, described as an
                    "original duplicate copy" in a bill of sale, was purchased in the 1930s from Frank
                    Prince of 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            In addition to manuscript sources, the Smith Library also contains microfilm sets of primary sources
                    found in other repositories. These include The Papers of Arthur St. Clair,
                        1746–1882 (
                        Ohio
                     Historical Society, 1977); the William Henry Harrison Papers,
                        1734–1939 (Library of Congress, 1958); and The Papers of William
                        Henry Harrison, 1800–1815 (Indiana Historical Society, 1993–1999).
                    The last of these sets, consisting often reels of microfilm and a printed guide, contains
                    transcriptions of nearly 3,600 Harrison documents in a number of repositories (including the Indiana
                    Historical Society) and private collections. Other microfilm sets include Letters
                        Received by the Surveyor General of the Territory Northwest of the River 
                            Ohio
                        
                and Microfilm of Papers Held by the National Archives and Records
                        Administration Pertaining to the Battle of 
                            Tippecanoe
                        
                (both National Archives publications).
            The library's printed collections also contain significant primary sources for research into
                    Indiana's history before 1816. These range  from
                    multivolume series that include primary documents, like the Indiana Historical Society
                        Publications (published by the Society) and the Indiana Historical
                    Collections (published by the Indiana Historical Bureau), to The Territorial
                        Papers of the United States (U.S. Government Printing Office, 1934–1969), which
                    includes two volumes on the Indiana Territory. A recent publication by Leigh Darbee, A
                        Guide to Early Imprints at the Indiana Historical Society, 1619–1840 (Indiana
                    Historical Society, 2001), provides detailed information on early imprints in the library's
                    collection.
            This summary indicates the wealth of resources for the history of the Old Northwest and Indiana
                    Territory at the William Henry Smith Memorial Library of the Indiana Historical Society. More
                    information can be found by visiting the Society's website
                    <www.indianahistory.org>, which includes an online catalog and collection guides, by
                    contacting the library's Reference Services Department, and by visiting the library.
         
         
         
            
                    Reviews
                
            
               Stardust Melody: The Life and Music of Hoagy Carmichael. By Richard M.
                    Sudhalter. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Oxford
                     University Press, 2002. Pp. xii, 432. Illustrations, notes, index. $35.00.)
            Does Hoagy Carmichael deserve a full-length biography? Richard M. Sudhalter's Stardust Melody convinced me that he does. By chronicling Carmichael's career
                    from his early days playing in the Book Nook in 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana, through his difficult later years, the author creates a portrait of one of
                    America's most talented composers in the modern age.
            Born into a Midwestern family with modest means and determined to avoid his father's
                    failures, Carmichael attended Indiana University. He pledged a fraternity and, by his senior year,
                    had begun his musical career. After graduation he practiced law (one of several attempts) but music
                    continued to call to him. In these early days he played with and befriended Bix Beiderbecke and
                    performed with many of the other luminaries of jazz and swing music. After the success of
                    "Washboard Blues" in 1925, he spent his life as a writer of popular songs.
                    Carmichael wrote songs, the most famous of which was "Star Dust" in 1927, which
                    spoke to and for his generation. Based on these and other successes (like "
                        Georgia
                     On My Mind"), he soon was a sought-after composer, first by music publishers
                    in 
                        New York
                     and then, in the early 1930s, by Hollywood filmmakers.
            Carmichael signed with Paramount Studios for one thousand dollars a week to produce tunes that would
                    help sell movies. His songs, while important, served as backdrops to the larger feature and helped
                    shape and define the movies. Carmichael excelled in this atmosphere. The transition from traveling
                    musician to Hollywood insider was smooth for Hoagy, and he quickly became comfortable in his
                    glamorous life. The songs he created during this period, no longer rooted heavily in jazz, still
                    spoke to his generation—they were smooth, easy on the ears, and made for dancing. Songs
                    like "Lazybones," "Heart and Soul," "Little Old
                    Lady," and the continued success of "Star Dust," made him wealthy, and
                    his movie work increased his reputation as a preeminent tunesmith.
            "Hoagy Carmichael in the 1940s was a man bursting with plans and possibilities,"
                    writes Sudhalter (p. 242). Working with Johnny Mercer he wrote "Skylark" in 1942,
                    and his role as Cricket in To Have and Have Not opened up a variety of acting
                    jobs. Songs he wrote for other movies were also doing quite well. His song for the 1946 film Canyon Passage, in which he also acted, garnered him an Academy Award nomination.
                    But "Ole Buttermilk Sky" lost out to a Mercer/Harry 
                        Warren
                     song, "On the Atchison, 
                        Topeka
                    , and the Santa Fe." It was only a matter of time before he won an Oscar, with
                    Mercer in 1951 for "In The Cool Cool Cool of the Evening" from the film Here Comes  the Groom. This was the apex of
                    his career, for within a few years his style seemed antiquated in comparison with the more
                    aggressive strains of rock and roll. Carmichael was now out of touch with popular taste. He never
                    had another hit after 1951, and his film roles dwindled as well. His personal life also began to
                    fall apart, as his eighteen-year marriage ended amidst rumors of drinking, affairs, and drug abuse.
                    Carmichael found little credible work, and by the 1960s he seemed to be angry at a world that had
                    passed him by. Hoagy Carmichael died in 1981, but not before he was recognized by a later generation
                    as a preeminent songwriter of his time.
            
               Stardust Melody is an informative and comprehensive examination of Carmichael and
                    his world and will stand as the definitive biography. Sudhalter writes in a conversational style
                    that makes the book easy to read, although at times his personal approach reveals his subjectivity.
                    He dances around controversial topics, such as extramarital affairs, drinking, and conservative
                    politics, that might make Carmichael less likeable. And since Sudhalter focuses on Carmichael, the
                    larger context of his subject's life is less examined. Given what the author sets out to do
                    in Stardust Melody, he is successful. Songwriters and performers should take note
                    of this tale of a talented man who lost his audience before he was ready to retire.
            KENNETH J. BINDAS is associate professor of history at 
                        Kent
                     State University, Trumbull, 
                        Ohio
                    . His Swing, That Modern Music (2001) explored the social and cultural
                    underpinnings of the swing phenomenon.
         
         
            
               99 Historic Homes of Indiana: A Look Inside. Photographs by Marsh Davis. Text by
                    Bill Shaw. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 2002. Pp. xiv, 240. Illustrations, index.
                    $39.95.)
            The premise of this book is excellent: provide brief portraits of a representative sample of home
                    preservationists who illustrate a diversity of contexts (farm, village, and city homes from several
                    socioeconomic classes), a variety of motivations (aesthetic, historical, civic, familial,
                    museological), and the richness of Indiana's architectural heritage.
            There are noteworthy surprises, as Bill Shaw profiles individuals who, in the period from 1960 to
                    1990, had to fight battles to save their houses and often went on to found preservation districts or
                    organizations in their towns. The authors, in an unspoken way, portray an America of individualists
                    and voluntary associations, and their choices of people and locales suggest an Indiana much like the 
                        New England
                     village Thornton Wilder created for Our Town. This is an Indiana
                    where people live their whole lives in one locale; remain in the same house over three or four
                    generations; or, in a simultaneous rejection and exploitation of professional mobility, they move
                    back home to acquire the houses they admired as children. Both text and photos  communicate what much of contemporary American life denies: a profound
                    need for personal, social, and historical rootedness.
            The book's appearance suggests coffee-table vanities, although in fact its size serves the
                    purposes of photographic clarity and completeness. Davis's matte photographs have neither
                    the slickness nor the sense of privileged serenity that images in Architectural
                    Digest promote. Davis's interiors register spatial depth and the warmth of premodern
                    materials unusually well, and his points of view admirably capture the sophistication these houses
                    possess.
            While one is tempted to contemplate the photographs in isolation from the text—the lawns
                    are always green, the sun is out, crack teams from Merry Maid have just departed the premises, all
                    is silence and immobility—Shaw's text balances the cumulative impact of so many
                    architectural images of buildings without people. His profiles animate the domestic spaces in the
                    photos with the personalities of the homeowners.
            The book, however, does have one major weakness. Although each of Shaw's profiles is
                    engaging, over the course of ninety-nine of them his unvarying use of conventional newspaper
                    portraiture reduces the owners to stock characters. His "just-folks" text
                    unintentionally undercuts the courage, resourcefulness, and tenacity of people like Nellie
                    Longworth, a fiery congressional lobbyist for preservation issues, and Stanley Lowe, a preservation
                    advocate for several of 
                        Pittsburgh
                    's black districts. Many of the people we meet in this book made it their
                    business to (metaphorically) dump garbage on the steps of city hall when the sanitation department
                    failed to pick it up in the neighborhoods. Only in this way did they get results. Their civic
                    commitment deserves a treatment divorced from the genteel, aestheticized public image the
                    preservation movement all too frequently creates for itself.
            EDWARD W. WOLNER, professor of architecture at Ball State
                    University, 
                        Muncie
                    , Indiana, is currently writing a book on "Skyscraper Romances from the Great
                    War through the Great Depression."
         
         
            
               The King of Steeltown: Hardball Politics in the Heartland. Produced and directed
                    by Chris Sautter. VHS and DVD, 75 minutes. (Sautter Communications, 3623 Everett Street, NW,
                    Washington, D.C. 20008. $30.00, plus $5.00 shipping.)
            In the spring of 1999, first-time documentary filmmaker Chris Sautter tracked the comings and goings
                    of the candidates in the Democratic mayoral primary in East 
                        Chicago
                    , Indiana. "The King of Steeltown" is a profile of the final days of
                    this campaign, featuring its victor, Robert A. Pastrick, East 
                        Chicago
                    's mayor since 1972. Apart from the sheer longevity of his tenure,
                    Pastrick's claim to fame is the style of his leadership. More than once he has been
                    described as the  last of the urban political machine bosses.
                    Sautter's aim is to document, and in so doing pay homage to, this vanishing form of locally
                    rooted political activism.
            In several respects, both Pastrick and East 
                        Chicago
                     resist easy examination. Pastrick is not an outsized personality. Slight of frame, with
                    a full and carefully shaped head of platinum hair, he evokes strong passions from all corners of the
                    East 
                        Chicago
                     political arena but is neither a formidable physical presence nor a commanding speaker.
                    At several points in the film Pastrick speaks directly to the camera, but his account of how he
                    rules East 
                        Chicago
                     reveals very little. He describes himself as a friend to each of his city's
                    racial and ethnic communities, and, like all practiced urban politicians, he underscores his
                    commitment to the effective delivery of city services. In 1999, the service activity du
                        jour appears to have been street and sidewalk repaving. Speaking at a campaign stop,
                    Pastrick pledges to repave every city street by the end of the calendar year.
            Like its mayor, East 
                        Chicago
                     manages to guard most of its secrets. In characteristic documentary fashion, a mobile
                    camera follows the movements, public addresses, and backroom meetings of Pastrick and, less
                    frequently, his primary opponent, Stephen Stiglich. Local journalists and political insiders take
                    their turns interpreting the impending election as well as the longer arc of Pastrick's
                    career. Otherwise, we view East 
                        Chicago
                     from the passenger's window of a moving car, observing dozens of neatly
                    maintained single-family homes and the occasional apartment building. One brief visit to 
                        Michigan
                     Avenue demonstrates that East 
                        Chicago
                     has experienced its share of inner-city commercial decline, but overall, Sautter
                    presents a community much more reminiscent of "Jean Shepherd's America"
                    than of the mean streets in 
                        Chicago
                     or 
                        New York
                    .
            While Sautter presents Pastrick as a man who "loves East 
                        Chicago
                    ," never does the viewer get a sense of why or of what constitutes
                    Pastrick's vision for the future of his town. This may be the paradoxical fate of
                    documentary filmmakers taking on working politicians. Sautter did not enhance his portrait of the
                    public Pastrick with candid glimpses of his private or semi-public life.
            In late 2002, reversing his pledge to step down as mayor of East 
                        Chicago
                     at the end of his thirty-second year in office, Pastrick announced that he would seek a
                    ninth term. This past May, he narrowly won renomination in the Democratic party primary, but in
                    heavily Democratic East 
                        Chicago
                     he is unlikely to be upset in the November 2003 general election. For political junkies
                    and local history buffs interested in exploring the contemporary politics of northwest Indiana,
                    "The King of Steeltown" represents a competently assembled introduction. For those
                    who are nostalgic for the pre-media era of door-to-door "retail politics," this
                    film also offers ambiguous insights. On the one hand, Sautter shows face-to-face politicking in
                    action, and discerns a light-hearted joyousness in the competition between Pastrick and  Stiglich campaign workers. On the other hand, the film's
                    celebration of house-to-house voter contacting and polling place electioneering is leavened by the
                    parting words of one of Stiglich's campaign workers, who had not yet received her
                    election-day stipend: "I want mine, from six to six. Add it up fellows."
            LARRY BENNETT teaches in the political science department
                    at DePaul University, 
                        Chicago
                    . His most recent book (co-authored with Costas Spirou) is It's
                        Hardly Sportin": Stadiums, Neighborhoods, and the New 
                            Chicago
                        
                (2003). Professor Bennett wishes to acknowledge the research assistance of
                    Jamie Smith.
         
         
            
               Hometown with Tom Roznowski. (Episodes available on the web at
                    http://www.wfiu.indiana.edu/hometown.)
            Each of Tom Roznowski's remarkable radio pieces (there are 373 three-and-a-half minute
                    episodes available on-line) begins with the mournful moan of a steam train whistle that blends with
                    lush Coplandesque orchestration, giving way to the introduction to Hometown.
                    "This is a journey …" it begins. We are on our way to the American
                    hometown, 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Indiana, but we are also on our way back in time to the summer of 1926, the setting
                    chosen for these aural postcards. Roznowski selected that summer, we are told, because it is the
                    year that the rural and urban populations of America were equally distributed and that the
                    population center of the country drifted into southwestern Indiana. The intersection of highways US
                    40 and 41 becomes for Roznowski the crosshairs of his sighting, the coordinates of his graph of
                    place and past.
            Much of Hometown attempts to recreate the potent nostalgia of lost sounds such as
                    the whistle. Listeners are asked to imagine what the past was like; the brief essays attempt to
                    breathe life into primary sources. Episode #67, for example, uses a letter to the editor written by
                    Eugene Debs on the occasion of the demolition of philanthropist Chauncey Rose's mansion to
                    introduce a three-minute reminiscence of the Rose name and legacy. Debs's letter, cited but
                    never read, must have had passion and immediacy. Hometown's nostalgia, in
                    contrast, has had the air let out of it. We are left to wonder about the past, to marvel at how
                    different it was then, but this difference is not alive for us.
            Are these radio pieces history? These meditative essays, especially through their cumulative impact,
                    create a kind of history of everyday life, an antidote of anecdotes arrayed against the formal
                    histories of great men and great events. Roznowski's pieces also resemble Garrison
                    Keillor's Lake Wobegone tales in their tone and use of narrative. Attempting both history
                    and story, Hometown is neither thing. Its folksy pitch often undermines its claim
                    to historical authority, and what remains, because of the brevity of the format and the nature of
                    the medium, is less enlightening than informative.
            
            As I listened to this ambitious project, I found myself thinking not so much about the subject of
                    these essays but about the project's original delivery device—the radio
                    broadcast. Roznowski uses the radio unselfconsciously, as the invisible conduit of oral
                    storytelling, rather than attempting to recreate the sound and style of the radio broadcasts of
                    1926. This seems like a missed opportunity—one to which I was made even more sensitive by
                    the fact that I did not review Hometown by means of radio and a schedule of
                    broadcasts. Instead, I downloaded the episodes in no particular order, and thus my experiences of
                    this aural history were random, not seamless. I was quite conscious of the
                    "journey" I was taking as I negotiated my way through screens of material. I began
                    to wish that Roznowski and his engineers had constructed their web-based project in a manner that
                    allowed for more simulation and less digestion. Had it been designed differently, I could have
                    interacted more fully with this hometown. The computer and internet offer a real possibility of
                    fruitful interaction in such a grand conceptual project, and Hometown only flirts
                    with those possibilities in its present manifestation.
            MICHAEL MARTONE is professor of English, University of
                            
                  Alabama, Tuscaloosa
               . His publications include The Blue Guide
                        to Indiana (2001) and The Flatness and Other Landscapes (2000).
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Ohio
                         on the Move. By H. Roger Grant. (
                        Athens
                    : 
                        Ohio
                     University Press, 2000. Pp. xvii, 210. Illustrations, bibliography, notes, index.
                    $36.00.)
            
               
                  
                            Ohio
                         on the Move offers a short course in transportation from the eighteenth
                    century's early roads to the air age. As the first book in a series to commemorate 
                        Ohio
                    's bicentennial, it competently fulfills the author's goal
                    "to highlight major events and trends … that explain the long-term importance of
                    transport" (p. xix). H. Roger Grant, a history professor for twenty-six years and the
                    author of more than a dozen books on transportation, is superbly qualified to write this volume.
            Beginning with roads of the late 1790s, Grant develops the story of land transportation through the
                    military roads of the War of 1812, the National Road, which crossed 
                        Ohio
                     and extended into Indiana and beyond, and the often financially unsuccessful private
                    turnpikes.
            Fortunate to have navigable water on two boundaries, Ohioans floated varied craft on both Lake Erie
                    and the 
                        Ohio
                     River. Legislation passed in 1825 enabled the state to connect both waterways by
                    building two major canals and several shorter ones. Canals moved farm, mine, and factory products,
                    adding to 
                        Ohio
                    's prosperity by opening new markets.
            The railroads appeared in the 1830s and made the canal system obsolete. During the 1870s and 1880s,
                    more than 1,000 miles of  narrow gauge lines were built, but by
                    the 1890s nearly all were gone. Before they disappeared from use, however, 1,600 miles of the Grand
                    Narrow Gauge Trunk had been nearly completed between 
                  Toledo, St. Louis
               , and the
                    Mexican border.
            The railroads did more than revolutionize transportation. The depot became the town social center,
                    and an auxiliary business district often grew up around it. The agent became a prominent community
                    leader, and as telegraph operator he was the fountainhead of news.
            The railroads" decline as passenger carriers began when 
                        Ohio
                    's first electric interurban line opened between 
                        Newark
                     and 
                        Granville
                     in 1889. By 1916, 
                        Ohio
                     ranked first in the nation with 2,798 miles of track. But by the 1930s, this too was
                    all gone.
            In the chapter on urban transport the author describes the progression from horse cars to steam and
                    electric cars, including trolley buses. In 
                        Cleveland
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                     cable cars carried passengers, and the latter city also had an uncompleted subway
                    system.
            Beginning in the 1930s, automobile, bus, and truck traffic expanded. By the mid-1950s, 16,000 miles
                    of hard-surfaced roads criss-crossed the state. 
                        Ohio
                     became an auto manufacturing state, and 
                        Cincinnati
                     and 
                        Toledo
                    , in particular, were transformed financially and socially.
            The air age ushered in the ultimate in transport. It is traced from the balloon-carried air mail of
                    1835, through the Wright Brothers" experiments in 
                        Dayton
                    , to the commercial service opened in 1922 between 
                        Cleveland
                     and 
                        Detroit
                    . Two years earlier, an unusual transcontinental air-mail service had been inaugurated
                    via 
                        Cleveland
                    . Air-age expansion led to Akron's predominance as a blimp and zeppelin
                    producer.
            
               
                  
                            Ohio
                         on the Move is thorough and well-balanced and is a must for anyone interested
                    in the development of transportation, whether in 
                        Ohio
                     or in other states which followed 
                        Ohio
                    's pattern.
            RICHARD S. SIMONS is coauthor of Railroads of
                        Indiana (1997) and author of The Rivers of Indiana (1985). He has served
                    as president of the Indiana Historical Society and vice president of the National Railway Historical
                    Society.
         
         
            
               In Search of an American Catholicism: A History of Religion and Culture in
                    Tension. By Jay P. Dolan. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Oxford
                     University Press, 2002. Pp. viii, 312. Notes, index. $28.00.)
            
               Communion of Immigrants: A History of Catholics in America. By James T. Fisher. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Oxford
                     University Press, 2002. Pp. x, 179. Illustrations, further reading, index. Paperbound,
                    $11.95.)
            In the last chapters of each of these books ("The People of God Divided?" in James
                    T. Fisher's book, and "An American Religion and a Roman Church,
                    1960–2001" in Jay P. Dolan's), a reader would  expect to see something about feminism, disruptive sexual ethics, and
                    the creative engagement of controversial issues by both traditional and progressive Catholics. The
                    question mark in Fisher's chapter title suggests that we can still wonder whether American
                    Catholics are divided among themselves and in relation to hierarchical authorities at home and in
                    the Vatican. In the sixty-three pages of Dolan's chapter, feminists are not quoted; gays,
                    lesbians, prochoice activists, and other voices of dissent are ignored; and Dolan's own
                    centrist position is never challenged by voices from either the right wing or the left wing.
            Fisher's book is meant to be useful to those who teach courses on American Catholicism: it
                    is short, contains some primary texts, and its photographs illustrate a level of diversity within
                    American Catholicism. He often avoids the usual prototypes to make his point. For example, he begins
                    the Spanish conquest with Cabeza de Vaca (the first European to travel across the North American
                    continent) rather than with 
                        Columbus
                     or Cortez. He includes women, black Catholics, ethnic conflicts, and a wide range of
                    Catholic issues and personalities. Communion of Immigrants works as a sensitive
                    general introduction to American Catholicism. Most figures and movements are touched lightly, so
                    that teachers will want to supplement it with additional readings. The historical time line and the
                    bibliography could have been more extensive and helpful, but the writing is accessible and meant to
                    stimulate students to want more even as it gives them a broad array of possibilities to explore.
            Dolan's book recaps an argument he made in The American Catholic
                    Experience (1985), that American Catholics can reinvigorate the spirit of democracy with which
                    they began their own history in this country. He celebrates the "people's
                    church" as opposed to the "bureaucratic one" (p. 255) finding a
                    democratic community in early Catholic experience. It is true that the small group of colonial
                    Catholics, with few priests, had to direct their own spiritual lives, and it is also true that John
                    Carroll, their first bishop, made some startling suggestions (a vernacular liturgy and election of
                    bishops). But these accommodations to stringent colonial circumstances do not prove that theirs was
                    a burgeoning democratic Catholicism. In the earlier book and in this one, the scene is dominated by
                    Irish Catholics, with various ethnic groups in cameo roles. For example, Robert Orsi's
                    groundbreaking book, The Madonna of 115th Street, is cited, but Italian Americans
                    are mentioned only in passing and fewer than a dozen times. Hispanic Catholics, along with Asian
                    American and black Catholics, are all present in the book, but there is no clear sense of how their
                    experiences have had an impact on the plot of Dolan's story.
            The subtitle begs several questions, not the least of which is why we should see religion and culture
                    in tension. If religion is part of  culture, then Catholicism
                    has helped to define American culture. If one accepts the "religion and culture in
                    tension" scenario, then we can ask who are the proper representatives of each? Are
                    dissenting voices—from gay and lesbian Catholics, from feminist critics, from
                    neo-conservatives and anti-feminists—legitimate expressions of religion or culture? Dolan
                    mentions abortion, for example, and says it "continues to be a topic of national
                    discussion" (p. 203), but he says nothing of Catholics for a Free Choice, a
                    "Catholic" pro-choice lobbying group that has been denounced by the National
                    Conference of Catholic Bishops as having no official status within the church. Neither does he
                    mention various conservative groups whose energies are galvanized in opposition to abortion. For
                    Dolan "sexual ethics" (p. 249) refers to Catholic use of artificial birth control:
                    he ignores divorce and homosexuality, two areas in which Vatican teachings have been particularly
                    punitive. Gay Catholics reject official Catholic sexual teaching that there can be no legitimate
                    sexual pleasure with the possibility of reproduction and might have provided an example of religion
                    and culture in tension.
            Dolan's rosy view of the present and optimistic hopes for the future may reflect his focus
                    on the center and on a predominantly Irish-American church. For example, he says that by 1970,
                    "the goals of the liturgical movement that reformers had promoted since the 1930s were
                    finally realized," (p. 193) but the dramatic protests of the new Call to Action movement
                    indicate that the goals of liturgical reformers have not only not been met, but
                    are increasingly eroded by a conservative hierarchy. And what of those who have argued that Vatican
                    II was, in effect, a "class war" against ethnic devotional Catholicism? Many
                    Catholics—ethnic groups, liturgical musicians, members of the Women's Ordination
                    Conference, and Latin Mass enthusiasts—are not as fulsome in their support of liturgical
                    change as Dolan is, and their voices are not heard in his book.
            A hearty optimism leads Dolan to speak glowingly about women in the church, while ignoring the
                    dissenting voices of feminist critics. Even if one does not believe that feminism has made an
                    enormous impact on women in religious orders, on parish life, and on academic theology, the voices
                    of feminist critics cannot be ignored. Dolan says that the Catholic Church allows "women to
                    be pastors of parishes," which is a comforting thought, but not consistent with Canon 546
                    in the revised Code of Canon Law which says that women may not be pastors. In a clarifying directive
                    (1997) the Vatican says that lay people may not even call themselves ministers or
                    chaplains, a move that can be seen as an official attempt to keep women out of the
                    "ministry" lest their role be confused with that of a priest. Dolan tells us about
                    discouraged women celebrating the Eucharist without a priest (p. 235) and he recognizes that
                    "a good number of distinguished theologians are women," (p. 234) but generally he
                    does not allow them to speak for themselves.
            
            The probable fate of the women's movement in a misogynist institution, contemporary
                    divisions among traditional and progressive Catholics, and the evaporation of all hope for increased
                    lay power within the church, do not make me sanguine. Dolan's hopeful projections seem to
                    be the consequence of a selective reading of the signs of the times.
            MARY JO WEAVER, professor of religious
                    studies at Indiana University, has published two books on current divisions within American
                    Catholicism, Being Right: Conservative Catholics in America, with Scott Appleby
                    (1995), and What's Left: Liberal American Catholics (1999).
         
         
            
               The Landscape of History: How Historians Map the Past. By John Lewis Gaddis. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Oxford
                     University Press, 2002. Pp. xii, 192. Illustrations, notes, index. $23.00.)
            
               Historical Thinking and Other Unnatural Acts: Charting the Future of Teaching the
                        Past. By Sam Wineburg. (
                        Philadelphia
                    : Temple University Press, 2001. Pp. xiv, 255. Notes, tables, illustrations. Clothbound,
                    $69.50; paperbound, $22.95.)
            These two volumes represent different disciplines and different aims, but they converge on several
                    key issues. John Lewis Gaddis, one of the world's premier historians of the Cold War, has
                    written on his craft in a slim volume that reflects the wisdom acquired in a distinguished career.
                    Building on the ideas of Marc Bloch and E.H. Carr, he outlines a concise yet powerful account of
                    issues such as the nature of historical consciousness and the relationship between history and
                    science. Sam Wineburg, a psychologist who studies the teaching and learning of history, explores a
                    set of fascinating empirical studies and theoretical claims made about them.
            Gaddis's primary concern is with philosophical issues that academic historians face as they
                    go about their work. His exploration of the similarities and differences between inquiry in history
                    and in the natural sciences is particularly interesting. Instead of considering whether history is a
                    science, he turns things around by asking whether sciences are historical. In place of the
                    "actual replicability" (p. 43) that sets the standard in laboratory sciences like
                    chemistry (as well as in too much of social science, according to Gaddis), he argues for the
                    standard of "virtual replicability" (p. 43) and the relevance of natural sciences
                    such as geology and paleontology for history.
            At first glance, Wineburg's goals seem to be quite different. He begins with the observation
                    that decades of complaints about American high school students" ignorance of history have
                    prompted little improvement in teaching. Instead of trotting out another prescription for how to fix
                    things, he argues for the need to turn to a deeper set of questions, such as (p. 5) "What
                    is history good for? Why even teach it in schools?"
            
            Despite differences in the questions they ask, Gaddis and Wineburg have some strikingly similar
                    things to say, especially about the importance of complexity in historical reasoning. Gaddis makes
                    this point in the context of comparing history and the natural sciences. He emphasizes that, along
                    with collecting and weighing evidence judiciously, historians are required to make moral judgments,
                    a complication not found in the natural sciences. For Wineburg, sophisticated historical reasoning
                    requires the ability to balance the demands of the present and the past, and the biggest impediment
                    to this stems from looking at the latter from a present-day perspective.
            According to both authors, maturity is the key to making insightful and responsible judgments about
                    the past, maturity that involves balancing competing perspectives and claims. In his analysis of how
                    high school students who are bright and well-informed nevertheless often come up with rigid,
                    unsophisticated historical interpretations, Wineburg emphasizes the need to resist "the
                    seductiveness of coming to know people in the past by relying on the dimensions of our
                    "lived experience" (p. 22). Reading history skillfully requires an analysis of the
                    subtext as well as the text, and Wineburg suggests that the balancing act involved in coordinating
                    the two may be precisely what high achieving American high school students are trained not to do.
            Gaddis defines historical consciousness in terms of another sort of balancing act and its associated
                    requirements of maturity. Using Caspar David Friedrich's painting The Wanderer
                        above the Sea of Fog as a starting point, he argues that historical consciousness involves
                    the recognition that "our place … isn"t a large one" (p. 6).
                    But historians who engage in the act of representation (a topic Gaddis explores in some detail) are
                    made to feel large, "because you yourself are in charge of the representation:
                    it's you who must make complexity comprehensible" (p. 7). The result is that
                    "[h]istorical consciousness … leaves you, as does maturity itself, with a
                    simultaneous sense of your own significance and insignificance" (p. 8). The task for the
                    historian is how to navigate between these two opposing tendencies.
            In the end, these two authors arrive at similar points about what constitutes good history and how we
                    can produce it. Without citing one another, or even many common sources, a major practicing
                    historian and a leading figure in cognitive and educational psychology independently conclude that
                    simple, clear recipes for understanding the past appeal all too readily to the young and
                    inexperienced and result all too frequently in poor, if not dangerous, interpretation. Following
                    these two authors" arguments is a fascinating experience for anyone wishing to gain new
                    insight into how we understand—and misunderstand—history.
            JAMES V. WERTSCH is professor in the Program on
                    International and Area Studies and in the Department of Education at Washington University,
                            
                  St. Louis, Missouri
               .
         
         
         
            
               Indians and English: Facing Off in Early America. By Karen Ordahl Kupperman. (
                        Ithaca
                    , N.Y.: Cornell University Press, 2000. Pp. xi, 297. Illustrations, notes, index.
                    Clothbound, $45.00; paperbound, $17.95.)
            Karen Ordahl Kupperman argues that students of Anglo-Indian relations ought to distinguish between
                    those Englishmen who traveled to America and interacted with Indians and the writers more critical
                    of Indian life who stayed at home. Kupperman, in Indians and English, claims that
                    informed English opinion of the Indians was not nearly so critical as scholars have suggested. In
                    studying Indian clothing and appearance, their systems of law and government, and their village life
                    and religion, English observers concluded that Indians possessed "all the characteristics
                    necessary to civility" (p. 144).
            Kupperman seems to have read closely every text English writers produced about the Indians, and this
                    approach has influenced the tone of her book. While she says much about Englishmen trying to make
                    sense of the native people they encountered on American shores, she says relatively little about
                    Indians" efforts to comprehend the English. Not until the sixth (and penultimate) chapter,
                    "Incorporating the Other," do we find a sustained discussion of Indian views about
                    the newcomers. The wait, however, is well worthwhile. Kupperman's discussion here of native
                    attempts to understand English viewpoints and motivations and the tremendous difficulties faced by
                    Indians who sought to incorporate themselves into an Anglo-American society is one of the finest in
                    print.
            In the final chapter, Kupperman seeks to explain why the Anglo-Indian exchange has so tragic a
                    history. If English observers thought highly of Indian potential, she asks, why did the relationship
                    between persons from these cultures degenerate into violence so quickly in every place settled by
                    the English? The expectation and fear of treachery, deeply seated in English consciousness, played a
                    large role, Kupperman argues, but other factors were at work as well. Early English settlers, many
                    of whom were soldiers, not only were unable to appreciate the speculations of the learned about the
                    Indians" potential for civility, but behaved with a "carelessness and
                    lawlessness" that frequently flared into violence. Further, as the number of English
                    immigrants increased, Kupperman correctly points out, "competition for land increasingly
                    became the underlying cause of conflict" (p. 235).
            The final two chapters of Indians and English are strong enough to make this a
                    significant and important book. Still, Kupperman's argument raises a troubling question: if
                    the source of conflict between Indians and immigrants lay in competition for control of the land,
                    did the thinking of elite observers matter much? Since many of the frontier settlers who intruded
                    onto Indian lands and provoked conflict with the Indians were illiterate, did the writers upon whom
                    Kupperman focused influence them at all? A significant chasm existed, it seems,  between the fundamentally optimistic English writers, many of whom knew
                    Indians well, and the colonists who carried out the often violent task of settling a frontier. This
                    reviewer, at least, wishes that Kupperman had done more to explore the relationship between text and
                    context, between imperial aspirations and frontier realities. As the readers of this journal who are
                    familiar with Indiana's Indian heritage will surely recognize, this gap existed on
                    subsequent frontiers as well, with similarly violent consequences.
            MICHAEL LEROY OBERG, the author of Dominion and Civility: English Imperialism and Native America,
                    1585–1685 (1999) and Uncas: First of the Mohegans (2003), is
                    associate professor of history at the State University of 
                        New York
                    , Geneseo.
         
         
            
               Wilson's Creek: The Second Battle ofthe Civil War and the Men Who Fought
                    It. By William Garrett Piston and Richard W. Hatcher, III. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 2000. Pp. xix, 408. Illustrations, maps, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $37.50.)
            In Wilson's Creek: The Second Battle of the Civil War and the Men Who Fought
                    It, authors William Garrett Piston and Richard W. Hatcher, III, attempt to move beyond the
                    traditional battle/campaign narrative to, as they put it, "study the broad impact of events
                    on the families ofthe soldiers and the families in whose neighborhoods these momentous events
                    occurred" (p. xv).
            The Battle of Wilson's Creek (
                        Missouri
                    ) was fought less than a month after the First Battle of Bull Run. Piston, a professor
                    of history at Southwest 
                        Missouri
                     State University in 
                        Springfield
                     (just a few miles from the battlefield), and Hatcher, a historian at Fort Sumter
                    National Monument in 
                        South Carolina
                    , tell the story ofthe battle, but they do much more. The first few chapters relate the
                    forming of many of the companies that participated in the battle and the social backgrounds of those
                    who joined. The authors also investigate the reasons the men enlisted, finding that for most of them
                    community ties and sentiment made fighting a matter of honor.
            Then comes a more straightforward narrative ofthe campaign and battle of Wilson's Creek.
                    This narrative is well done, although in a few places confusion arises. For example, the description
                    ofthe Confederate camp that Union Brigadier General Nathaniel Lyon eventually attacked would have
                    been improved by a map showing the various positions held by the Confederates. Also, the immediate
                    buildup to the fight itself would have been clearer if the two armies" experiences had been
                    interwoven instead of separated. The battle itself is described admirably, with discussion of troop
                    movements and engagements mixed well with stories showing the human side of battle.
            After the battle description comes more social history. Piston and Hatcher tell how the communities
                    that sent soldiers to Wilson's  Creek heard the news of
                    the battle and of casualties. More than do most campaign historians, they discuss the tending of the
                    wounded and burial of the dead, including the journey of Lyon's body (he was killed during
                    the battle) to its final resting place in 
                        Connecticut
                    . They also describe the news reports after the battle that emphasized the honor various
                    companies brought to their hometowns. Finally, they put the battle into context, not merely of the
                    war itself but also of its aftermath. They end the book by relating how one 
                        Kansas
                     newspaper, printing a history of the town's company of soldiers, published a
                    list of soldiers who had "broken the social contract" by deserting and thus
                    bringing dishonor on the town.
            This is a remarkable book, at once very good campaign history and well-researched social history. The
                    small size of the armies at Wilson's Creek allowed a depth of coverage perhaps not possible
                    in other studies, but the authors took full advantage of their subject. The book deserves a place on
                    any Civil War bookshelf.
            BRIAN BURTON, is associate professor of management and
                    director of the MBA program at Western Washington University, Bellingham. He is the author of Extraordinary Circumstances: The Seven Days Battles (2001).
         
         
            
               Muscular Christianity: Manhood and Sports in Protestant America,
                        1880–1920. By Clifford Putney. (
                        Cambridge
                    , Mass.: 
                        Harvard
                     University Press, 2001. Pp. x, 300. Illustrations, notes, selected bibliography, index.
                    $39.95.)
            Clifford Putney explores a topic familiar to historians of masculinity: the thoroughgoing efforts by
                    fin-de-siècle Protestant clergy and laymen in the United States and Britain to
                    reinvigorate Protestantism with a heavy-handed dose of masculine energy and physicality. His claim
                    that muscular Christianity "has been largely overlooked by historians" (p. 6) is
                    likely to surprise readers familiar with the work of E. Anthony Rotundo, Gail Bederman, Michael
                    Kimmel, Elliott Gorn, T. J. Jackson Lears, Susan Curtis, and Harvey Green. What Putney does
                    contribute is a rich exposition of the sources produced by church-sport associations in which
                    physical fitness was conflated with Christian zeal. This is a well-researched book filled with
                    wonderful examples of writings that touted the manliness of sports and Jesus.
            Putney begins by describing how ideas about muscular Christianity, particularly the notion that
                    sports build character, were transmitted from their British origins, in works such as Thomas
                    Hughes's popular Tom 
                            Brown
                        's School Days (1856), to American popularizers. The Americans saw
                    rigorous physical exercise and masculine activism ("the Strenuous Life," as
                    Theodore Roosevelt called it) as the antidote to their anxieties about
                    "overcivilization," "the new woman," the supposedly feminized
                    upbringing of boys, and the church's declining authority amid the social dislocations of
                    turn-of-the-century immigration  and urbanization. Mainline
                    Protestant churches, in conjunction with organizations such as the YMCA and the Boy Scouts,
                    effectively overturned longstanding hostility to play and sports and redefined Christian theology so
                    that salvation "lay as much through the body as through the soul" (p. 63). In
                    response to this quest for a hypermasculine Christianity, Putney reveals, many Protestant women also
                    embraced the "strenuous life" by creating alternative organizations like the YWCA,
                    Girl Scouts, and Camp Fire Girls. Putney argues too that Protestant foreign missionaries"
                    initial reliance on muscular Christianity was abandoned after World War I and replaced by an
                    emphasis on peaceful cross-cultural fellowship and anticolonialism. By his analysis of the legendary
                    football coach Amos Alonzo Stagg, Putney exposes the long line of coaches who have blended Christian
                    ideas with their shaping of athletes, later seen in Tom Landry and in University of 
                        Colorado
                     football coach Bill McCartney, who founded Promise Keepers, a late twentieth-century
                    version of muscular Christianity.
            Those already familiar with the vast literature on turn-of-the-century masculinity will not find much
                    that is startlingly new in Muscular Christianity. Putney relies on paradigms of
                    "separate spheres" and the "feminization of American culture,"
                    which other scholars have questioned, and he adds little to the compelling question, recently
                    explored by George Chauncey, John Gustav-Wrathall, and Kevin Murphy, of whether the relationships
                    among men in muscular Christian movements (YMCA, Social Gospel, settlement houses) were homosocial
                    or homoerotic. And at times, Putney misses the purely metaphorical use of the language of muscular
                    Christianity that often represented a call for more vigorous zeal and faith rather than an equation
                    of physically healthy bodies with Christianity. Nonetheless, Putney has produced a synthesis that
                    constitutes an excellent starting place for readers unfamiliar with the topic of Protestantism and
                    masculinity during the Progressive era.
            BRUCE DORSEY, associate professor of history at Swarthmore
                    College, Swarthmore, Pennsylvania, is the author of Reforming Men and Women: Gender in
                        the Antebellum City (2002).
         
         
            
               An Engineer's Diary of the Great War. [By Harry E. Spring]. Edited by
                    Terry M. Bareither. (West 
                        Lafayette
                    , Ind.: Purdue University Press, 2002. Pp. vii, 259. Illustrations, notes, appendices.
                    $32.95.)
            
               An Engineer's Diary of the Great War is an edited version of the war diary
                    and scrapbook kept by an Indiana native, Lieutenant Harry E. Spring, an electrical engineer in the
                    37th Engineers. It was earlier transcribed by his daughter and given to the editor by his
                    granddaughter. The well-appointed book is nicely organized with appropriate illustrations (some of
                    them photos taken by Spring himself) and excellent maps. The editor, engineer Terry M. Bareither,
                    though not a professional  historian, has done a fine job of
                    organizing the entries and presenting the diary in a pleasing and clear daily format and has
                    annotated several chapters with useful explanatory notes. There is a glossary of military terms,
                    though why the editor feels it necessary to explicate the meaning of such common terms as
                    "mess" and "KP" is not clear. Even more strangely, the
                    introduction includes such flagrantly extraneous items as the introduction of the Raggedy Ann Doll
                    to American consumers in 1917, the patenting of the electric toaster in 1918, and the establishment
                    by Congress of Grand Canyon National Park in 1919. There is no index, which is badly needed.
            The intrinsic value of the diary is severely limited. The chronological account is incomplete, for
                    Spring's wartime diaries did not survive intact and thus the entire period from November of
                    1917 to August of 1918 is missing. And only 73 pages of the 259 pertain to Spring's
                    soldiering in France. The critical period covering the Meuse-Argonne offensive takes up only 32
                    pages. Most disappointingly, Spring, as a platoon commander, contributes little or no information
                    regarding the mission of the electrical engineers in the field. We learn nothing new about their
                    daily work beyond the obvious—repair of power stations, pump repair, placement of
                    generators and telephone lines, etc.
            Though Bareither claims to have deleted most trivial entries detailing routine daily comings and
                    goings of members of the platoon, what remains is irritatingly repetitious and mundane. Gas attacks
                    and bombardments are chronicled without a word of description. Though Bareither promises that
                    through Spring's eyes readers will "meet some of the most important American
                    leaders of World War I, such as … General "Blackjack"
                    Pershing" (p. 2), the sole mention of Pershing during the war period appears on October 17,
                    when Spring "saw Gen"l Pershing plodding around in mud in Chatel this
                    P.M." (p. 107). And in February 1919, Spring saluted Pershing during a routine inspection,
                    but we learn nothing of worth from this meeting, gratifying though if may have been to Spring
                    personally.
            Five appendix pages are devoted to reports concerning the postwar accidental death of one of
                    Spring's men, who fell out of a train door while the train was in motion, hardly
                    sensational stuff. A few egregious errors mar the sparse commentary. For example, Bareither writes
                    that the U.S. mobilized "almost ten million men" (p. 1) by the time of the
                    armistice, an estimate more than double the correct number.
            These inadequacies would be somewhat offset if Spring divulged something of genuine human interest,
                    including his own opinions or those of his fellows, or if he provided eyewitness accounts of
                    stirring events. But he does not. There is really little or nothing new to be learned here. All in
                    all, the content of the diary itself is remarkably mundane, uninformative, and pedestrian. Though
                    undoubtedly a much-treasured family memoir, An Engineer's Diary of the Great
                        War is disappointingly uninstructive to students of the Great War.  Archives in this country and Europe are replete with unpublished
                    diaries of far greater interest and value.
            DONALD RICHTER taught history for nearly forty years at 
                        Ohio
                     University, 
                        Athens
                    . His most recent books are Chemical Soldiers: British Gas Warfare in World
                        War I (1994) and Lionel Sotheby's Great War: Letters and Diaries from
                        the Western Front (1997).
         
         
            
               Dissent in 
                            Wichita
                        : The Civil Rights Movement in the Midwest, 1954–72. By Gretchen
                    Cassel Eick. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 2001. Pp. xiv, 312. Map, illustrations, notes, tables, bibliography, index.
                    $39.95.)
            
               Dissent in 
                            Wichita
                        
                may not sound like an important topic, but Gretchen Cassel Eick has written a
                    very significant book. "In 1958," she claims, "black 
                        Kansas
                     youths organized the first successful sustained student sit-in of the 1950s, two years
                    before sit-ins swept the South" (p. ix). The aim of this study is to examine that sit-in,
                    but there is much more. Eick explores how the activists forged a civil rights consensus in 
                        Kansas
                     and a few midwestern cities and what impact that had in Washington, D.C. Along the way
                    she introduces us to what historian John Dittmer and others have called "local
                    people," the grassroots folks who made a difference in their communities and eventually in
                    the nation. In 
                        Wichita
                     there were many, including Vivian Parks, Jo Gardenhire, Anna Jane Michener, Fred
                    Sparks, and especially 
                        Chester
                     Lewis.
            During the 1950s, most public facilities in 
                        Wichita
                    , including schools, parks, and swimming pools, were segregated. The only hotel that
                    would accept blacks was also a brothel. The main drugstores would sell food or drinks to African
                    Americans, but only as take-out service. In July and August 1957 that changed; the sit-ins, which
                    disrupted business and depressed profits, began, and Dockum Chain Drug Stores abandoned their
                    segregation policy. "The youths had won," Eick declares. "The largest
                    drugstore chain in 
                        Kansas
                     had desegregated not only its 
                        Wichita
                     stores but also all Rexall Drug Stores in 
                        Kansas
                    " (p. 9).
            The 
                        Wichita
                     sit-ins had an impact, and the next year students were sitting-in at drugstores in
                    other towns in 
                        Kansas
                     and in 
                        Oklahoma
                     City and 
                        St. Louis
                    . Yet, according to the author, the NAACP did not publicize the 
                        Wichita
                     sit-in because at that time the organization did not support the tactic. That silence,
                    Eick maintains, doomed the event to the historical dustbin. "Neither the sit-in in 
                        Wichita
                     nor [the one] in 
                        Oklahoma
                     City is mentioned in most scholarly literature on the civil rights movement, although
                    they preceded by two years the February 1960 
                  Greensboro, North Carolina
               ,
                    sit-in that is popularly credited with beginning the modern sit-in movement" (p. 11).
            This important book does much more than tell the story of the sit-in. Eick describes the local NAACP,
                    its growth, and problems it faced in the era, especially the rise in 1964 of the "Young
                    Turks,"  activists who wanted much more aggressive
                    tactics to bring about civil rights. She examines the local fight against discrimination in
                    employment, public accommodation, and housing, along with the white backlash; and she does a good
                    job of placing activism in one city and state in the national setting. In general, she supports the
                    contention that the struggle for equality in many border states was a much easier task than in the
                    South. Community, university, and business leaders in 
                        Wichita
                     were not so determined to preserve segregation that they would stand by and allow
                    violence on the scale of that in 
                        Mississippi
                    .
            
               Dissent in 
                            Wichita
                        
                is an excellent book. Eick conducted prodigious research in primary documents
                    and secondary sources, and interviewed more than eighty participants. She has made a significant
                    contribution, for she is correct in claiming that historians who have written about the civil rights
                    movement, including myself, have neglected the sit-ins in 
                        Wichita
                     and 
                        Oklahoma
                     City. Indeed, all historians who write about the movement will have to consult this
                    valuable book.
            TERRY H. ANDERSON's books include The Movement and the Sixties (1995), The Sixties (second edition, 2003),
                    and The Pursuit of Fairness: A History of Affirmative Action (forthcoming, 2004).
                    He is professor of history at 
                        Texas
                     A&M University.
         
         
            
               They Cleared the Lane: The NBA's Black Pioneers. By Ron Thomas.
                    (Lincoln: University of 
                        Nebraska
                     Press, 2002. Pp. xvii, 276. Illustrations, appendix, notes, index. $29.95.)
            Most sports fans and older Americans are familiar with Jackie Robinson's pivotal role in the
                    integration of major league baseball. Except for a few hard-core basketball fans, however, almost no
                    one knows the names of the first African Americans to compete in the National Basketball Association
                    (NBA) or how professional basketball was integrated. Drawing almost exclusively on personal
                    interviews with former players and coaches, sportswriter Ron Thomas has remedied this deficiency by
                    providing valuable biographical sketches of these racial pioneers. Thomas's main
                    conclusions are that basketball's integration proceeded "relatively
                    smoothly" (p. 132) when compared to that of professional baseball but that subtle racial
                    problems lingered in the NBA for several decades.
            Although an occasional black player appeared on white professional teams before World War II, the
                    primary outlet for talented African Americans during this period consisted of two all-black touring
                    teams, the 
                        New York
                     Rens and the Harlem Globetrotters. During and immediately after World War II, a few
                    more black athletes joined clubs in the National Basketball League, but the other major professional
                    league, the Basketball Association of America (BAA), completely banned African Americans. When the
                    two groups merged in 1949 to form the NBA, the new organization initially continued the
                    BAA's color line.
            
            In 1950 an owners" revolt led by Ned Irish of the 
                        New York
                     Knicks overturned this policy. As a result, three African Americans, Chuck Cooper, Nat
                    "Sweetwater" Clifton, and Earl Lloyd, joined NBA clubs that fall. The tolerance
                    that these three men encountered contrasted sharply with the hostility Jackie Robinson had faced
                    three years earlier, when he joined the 
                        Brooklyn
                     Dodgers in 1947. Thomas attributes this difference to the high educational level of
                    white basketball players and the relatively low status of professional basketball. "If the
                    NBA wanted to integrate, hardly anyone noticed," he observes (p. 20). Cooper, Clifton, and
                    Lloyd rarely experienced racial problems and enjoyed solid, productive careers. Still, NBA owners
                    did not immediately rush to sign black players, maintaining an informal quota system for at least a
                    decade because of fears of alienating white fans.
            In the late 1950s and early 1960s a new, more talented generation of black players entered the NBA.
                    Superstars such as Bill Russell, Elgin Baylor, Wilt Chamberlain, and Oscar Robertson elevated the
                    game to new heights. Off the court, they also brought change by refusing to tolerate racial
                    discrimination on team trips, especially in the South. Thomas also examines the initial exclusion of
                    African Americans from positions as head coaches in the NBA. He focuses in detail on the careers of
                    Bill Russell, Lenny Wilkins, Al Attles, K. C. Jones, and especially John McLendon, the first black
                    head coach in the rival American Basketball League.
            This is a very readable book, and Thomas's conclusions seem balanced and reasonable. Most of
                    the information is derived from his own personal interviews, however, which are not part of any oral
                    history collection, and there are few footnotes to other sources. Nonetheless, the book makes a
                    useful contribution to sport history and the history of race relations.
            CHARLES H. MARTIN, associate professor of history at the
                    University of 
                        Texas
                     at El Paso, is completing a book manuscript on the racial integration of college
                    sports. His "The Color Line in Midwestern College Sports, 1890-1960" appeared in
                    the June 2002 issue of this journal and won the Thornbrough Prize for best article in 2002.
         
         
            
               The End of Baseball as We Knew It: The Players Union, 1960-81. By Charles P.
                    Korr. Foreword by Bob Costas. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 2002. Pp. xviii, 336. Illustrations, notes, sources, index. $34.95.)
            To baseball's millions of fans, buffeted and angered over the last quarter-century by
                    repeated, unfathomable strikes that shut down their game, the title of this book may seem to be a
                    tipoff: here is another broadside against lawyer-union organizer Marvin Miller and his money-minded
                    player-clients whose greed has made America's national pastime past tense. It is not. It is
                    quite the opposite. Author Charles Korr, granted access to the files and correspondence of the  baseball players" union, raises points rarely made in
                    the decidedly pro-owners (or, at least, anti-players) attitude shared generally by sportswriters and
                    a high percentage of the game's vast but shrinking number of fans.
            Korr's key point involves baseball players" rights. For four or five generations of
                    fans and players the game prospered with "the reserve clause," which shackled
                    player movement and income. The clause was included in all player contracts. Essentially, the first
                    contract a player signed with a major league team or organization bound him to that team until its
                    management decided to let him go, by trade, sale, or release. The clause was at the heart of special
                    rights given to the game when Congress in the 1920s declared it to be "a sport, not a
                    business" and let it operate unfettered by anti-trust regulations. The Supreme Court upheld
                    the protection time and again over the years.
            Miller is the central figure in Korr's analysis of the players" rise from
                    supplicants to dictators, i.e., persons in a position to dictate the terms of their employment to
                    team owners, who had done all the dictating for the game's first seventy-five years or so.
                    The book's title is a quotation from a through-and-through baseball man, Paul Richards, who
                    was first a player, then a manager, and then a general manager. In 1967, when his colleagues in
                    management were about to enter into a collective bargaining agreement with the Major League Baseball
                    Players Association, Richards prophesied that "[t]his will be the end of baseball, as we
                    knew it." Korr's research suggests that he was correct.
            And the game? Evidence indicates it became considerably better in the years Korr covers, from 1960 to
                    1981. At the end of that period, after strikes, bargaining, and court rulings continued to shred the
                    reserve clause, baseball's attendance was up, its broadcasting income soared, and its
                    championships seemed more widely distributed; there was every sign that everyone involved was
                    profiting. That was before the strike-lockout that began in 1994 and carried over into 1995, for the
                    first time causing cancellation of the World Series. Korr discusses this in his epilogue, and
                    baseball has not yet healed all the wounds it inflicted or brought back all of its exasperated,
                    "that's-the-last-straw" fans. That strike and the spiraling costs of
                    free-agency, which led to the $252-million, ten-year contract 
                        Texas
                     gave shortstop Alex Rodriguez, are mines worth further digging. But there is no
                    debating the Korr theme: the baseball of today, as compared with the sport before the emergence of
                    the union in the 1960s, is a whole new ball game—which is the title of another book on
                    this theme, written by Marvin Miller.
            BOB HAMMEL, for thirty years sportswriter for the 
                        Bloomington
                    
                    Herald Times, is the author of ten books, eight of them on basketball at Indiana
                    University, including Knight: My Story (2002), cowritten with Bob Knight.
         
         
         
            
               Enemies Within: The Culture of Conspiracy in Modern America. By Robert Alan
                    Goldberg. (
                        New Haven
                    : Yale University Press, 2001. Pp. xiv, 354. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $29.95.)
            
               Enemies Within blends densely documented scholarship with a brisk repartee worthy
                    of both its distinguished imprinter and the reader's attention. For those unfamiliar with
                    conspiracy tales in recent popular culture the book offers a convenient sampling. Conjectures
                    regarding the reach of Communist influence, end-time prophecy, opposition to the Nation of Islam and
                    Black America, the JFK assassination, and alien visitations all receive chapter-long, detailed
                    retellings. Much of this is the familiar grist of late night AM talk shows, newsstand tabloids, and
                    entertainment industry fantasy-drama. To these stories the author supplies addenda, correctives, and
                    qualifications, critiques data and sources, and offers a general debunking in favor of conventional
                    wisdom: the 
                        Warren
                     Commission was right, Louis Farrakhan's racism wrong, the Illuminati and the
                    aliens aren"t, and so forth. This sampling brings together diverse threads of popular
                    culture into a common skein. But there are loose ends. Much is said of enemies within but little of
                    the culture of conspiracy.
            Missing definition: What is a conspiracy? It is whatever the author chooses to identify as such,
                    commonly a negative notion of clandestine networks and nefarious intent, simultaneously wrongheaded
                    and wrong-hearted. According to Robert Alan Goldberg, conspiracy notions derive from flawed
                    epistemology applied with selective malice. Conspiracists are not like us. Researchers order and
                    evaluate; conspiracists cull, curry, and concoct. Conspiracists" arguments are ad hoc,
                    haphazard, and biased; analysts" are even, balanced, and valid. In this vein analytic
                    induction is deemed unnecessary. Exampling will do. So it is in Enemies Within.
            
            Ignoring the mainstream: Why does the author rehash readings of Revelation while ignoring secular
                    prophecy, the ostensible signs of secret linkages in the economy stitched together by get-rich gurus
                    on cable TV infomercials and Wall Street pundits revealing the heretofore hidden symptoms of a
                    "new" economic order during the late 1990s" dot-com frenzy? Why retell
                    the venerable Roswell, 
                        New Mexico
                    , story, while disregarding present-day warnings of an "Axis of Evil"
                    from the highest authority in our land, warnings he perhaps learned on his father's knee
                    from another conspiracist given to alarms over a "dark force" emanating from the
                    Evil Empire? Likewise, narrowing conspiracism to North American interpretations of a fragment of
                    Christian scripture seems too limited. Why is nothing said of the broader rumors of invisible,
                    mysterious celestial influences behind such paradoxes as virgin births, inconsumable burning brush,
                    parting seas, water walking, reanimation of the dead, afterlife in perpetuity, and other improbable
                    events?
            
            Missing the point: Scholars who inquire directly into the social lives of contemporary conspiracists
                    hear talk less absolute and explicit, more evocative and exploratory, than secondary print sources
                    suggest. Among themselves, conspiracists more often narrate than debate. Diverse scenarios coexist
                    without discord. Conspiracy tales accrue respect as stories, judged, as in
                    Hellenic poetry contests, on the bases of artful drama, clever plot twists, and especially
                    refinements in technical detail, not on the basis of correspondence to the empirical. These stories
                    need to be believable, not provable; to evoke imagination, not reveal first principles or primal
                    truths. Among gun-show gossips, 
                        Orange County
                     political parlor participants, and back-road rural parishioners, conspiracy tales are
                    told like contemporary urban legends. Accounts of happenings in which the narrator has not been
                    directly involved are presented as propositions for belief, "strange but true"
                    events that could occur, told as if their probability were high. Such conspiracy tales are, as
                    Spinoza revealed the Bible to be, not literal assertions of hard-edged facticity but nuanced
                    allegory.
            Again, what is conspiracy? Does it reflect psychological confusions and delusions? The author rejects
                    these in principle, then affirms them in practice, saturating his text with references to
                    "conspiracy thinking," "conspiracy beliefs," and other
                    intra-psychic flaws and floundering. (The author does not clarify how to obtain knowledge of these
                    deep inner feelings). More correctly, "conspiracy" is rhetorical excess,
                    hyperbole, exaggeration of opponents" intent, or is used to set off the program of one
                    social movement activist, moral entrepreneur, politician, evangelist, reformer, revolutionary, or
                    candidate from another.
            To find conspiracy everywhere is to reduce the concept to a bargain word, an expression used with an
                    air of expertise signifying little. Enemies Within points out the problem and
                    displays it. In the end, conspiracy is no longer a topical curiosity but an impending crisis. The
                    author uncovers a "cult of conspiracy" and a "darker context that
                    nourishes conspiracy thinking" in the routine functionings of federal government (p. 256).
                    He warns that for a "half-century or more, a cult of secrecy has dominated the bureaucracy
                    of Washington" (p. 256). End times draw near. "Conspiracy thinking has moved
                    Americans beyond a healthy skepticism of authority …. the cancer of conspiracism has
                    begun to metastasize. Without new awareness of its character and quick intervention,
                    countersubversion may overcome the body politic" (p. 260). In this company William Pierce,
                    Cotton Mather, and Louis Farrakhan would be right at home.
            RICHARD MITCHELL is professor of sociology at 
                        Oregon
                     State University, Corvallis, and the author of Dancing at Armageddon:
                        Survivalism and Chaos in Modern Times (2002). His most recent research entailed twenty
                    years of participant observation, membership, and direct interaction in survivalist, paramilitary,
                    conspiracist, separatist, and supremacist organizations across North America.
         
      
      
         
         
         
      
   
