
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 85, Issue 2, pages 1-92. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:85+issue:2+year:1989&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Editors, Whistle Stops, and Elephants: The Presidential Campaign of 1936 in Indiana
            
                    James Philip Fadely
                    *
                
            Indiana played a prominent role in the presidential campaign of 1936 between Democrat Franklin D.
                    Roosevelt and Republican Alfred M. Landon. In an election marked by major party realignment, both
                    candidates considered the Hoosier state crucial to their chances for victory. The Great Depression
                    had stirred up politicians and voters, and the election of 1936 provided the occasion for FDR to
                    defend his New Deal for the first time and for Kansas governor Landon to fashion the first
                    Republican response to it. The Hoosier connection to the national campaign derived from
                    Indiana's electoral importance and status as a borderline state in the political battles of
                    the 1930s. The presidential contest of 1936 in Indiana was characterized by the substantial
                    influence of newspaper editors, by campaign whistle stops along the railroads to bring the
                    candidates close to the people, and by the old-fashioned excitement of politics evident in colorful
                    parades and political symbols.
            The politicking of Eugene C. Pulliam illustrates the important role of newspapermen in the
                    presidential campaign of 1936. Pulliam did not yet own the two Indianapolis newspapers, the Star and the News, which he would purchase in 1944 and 1946
                    respectively, but he was building his publishing business with papers in Lebanon, Huntington, and
                    Vincennes, Indiana, and in several small towns in Oklahoma. In 1936 the Indianapolis News was owned by the children of former Vice-president and Senator Charles W. Fairbanks
                    and was run by son Warren C. Fairbanks. John Shaffer, wealthy Republican publisher, industrialist,
                    and philanthropist, 
                  
                     * James Philip Fadely is teacher and assistant to the
                            headmaster at Saint Richard's Episcopal School in Indianapolis and member of the
                            associate faculty of Indiana University, Indianapolis. The author thanks James Roosevelt for
                            granting an interview by tape exchange; Judy Markley, private secretary to Governor Alfred
                            M. Landon, for arranging an interview with him; Ralph D. Gray for his suggestion of a title;
                            and Sally Fehsenfeld Fadely for her assistance in preparing the manuscript.
                  INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, LXXXV (June, 1989). ©1989, Trustees of Indiana
                            University. 
               
                     owned the Indianapolis Star. Shaffer also
                    owned, at various times, the Muncie Star and the Terre Haute Star as well as
                    newspapers in Denver, Chicago, and Louisville. A prominent Republican, Shaffer counted three
                    presidents, Theodore Roosevelt, William Howard Taft, and Warren G. Harding, among his friends.
                    Despite his smaller status in the newspaper business, Pulliam was already a major cog in Republican
                    politics, and he actively supported Landon's candidacy for the party's nomination
                    from the beginning.1
            
            Landon's connection to newspapermen grew naturally out of his campaign for the Republican
                    nomination. Because he lacked the necessary funds and feared an active primary campaign might
                    further divide the ideologically torn party, Landon had relied almost entirely on newspapers to
                    conduct his quest for the nomination. His major campaign aides were newspapermen with many contacts
                    in the business, thereby giving men like Pulliam access and influence. Prominent newspaper publisher
                    William Randolph Hearst began plugging Landon in the summer of 1935, prompting charges that the Lord
                    of San Simeon had Landon in his pocket. Although Landon firmly denied these charges, once the Hearst
                    chain got behind him, his so-called "newspaper candidacy" moved quickly forward.
                    Other contenders for the Republican nomination in 1936 were Frank Knox of Illinois, Senator William
                    Borah of Idaho, and Herbert Hoover, whom Roosevelt had defeated in the previous election.2
            
            The Landon papers yield no fewer than seven communications between Pulliam and the
                    governor's campaign staff, dating from April, 1936, well before the Republican National
                    Convention in June, to September. The letters show that the Hoosier publisher met with Landon in
                    Topeka in mid-April, confirming the Kansan's nomination strategy in Indiana and the
                    importance of people like Pulliam in implementing it. The correspondence also makes clear that
                    Pulliam was, in fact, deeply and importantly involved in promoting Landon's candidacy. Two
                    examples illustrate this point. Contending in August that the Indiana election would turn on the
                    vote in Evansville, Indianapolis, and the Gary steel district, Pulliam identified serious problems
                    for Landon in the first two cities.
            The problem in Evansville was its large black vote. Pulliam concluded that Charles Enlow, president
                    of both the Indiana Bankers Association and of the National City Bank in Evansville, was the
                    Republican key to a solution. To one of his friends, a Landon aide, Pulliam wrote: 
                        Our fight in this state would be all settled if it were not for the negro vote, which the
                            Democrats thus far have sewed up. We are working on the problem and this 
                        
                           1 John W. Miller, Indiana Newspaper
                                    Bibliography (Indianapolis, 1982), 281; obituary of John Charles Shaffer,
                                    Indianapolis News, October 6, 1943.
                        
                           2 Alfred M. Landon, interview with author, Topeka, Kansas,
                                    April 10, 1985.
                     
                             man Enlow can be of tremendous help. When he comes out
                            he should be received as "one of the family." That is, let him believe
                            that you take it for granted that he is heart and soul for you. That will tickle him. Then
                            see to it that he is asked personally to take care of the Evansville district for Landon. He
                            is the most powerful man in Southern Indiana when he personally undertakes a job. What we
                            want him to do is to undertake it.3
                  
                     Not wanting his advice to get lost in the shuffle, Pulliam wrote much the same to the
                    governor himself on the same day, with these suggestions for arrangements: 
                        We can arrange to have Enlow in Topeka on Sept. 14, 15, or 16; or he can fly from Albuquerque
                            on Sept. 30, coming to Topeka that evening or the morning of Oct. 1. May I ask that you have
                            Mr. Mayberry or one of your secretaries check these dates and advise me when it will be
                            convenient for you to see Enlow. It really is important, too, that he be invited from
                            Topeka. How about having some Topeka banker invite him. Since Enlow is president of the
                            Indiana Bankers Association it would be entirely appropriate for some banker there to extend
                            the invitation. Incidentally there need be no publicity whatever about
                            Enlow's visit. We simply want him to know you and feel that it is up to him to get
                            everlastingly busy.4
                  
                    
            
            In Indianapolis the problem was Warren Fairbanks and his Indianapolis News.
                    Fairbanks had been giving only lukewarm support to the Republican ticket in the pages of his paper,
                    and Pulliam believed the News's enthusiastic support was critical to
                    Landon's chances in the city and the surrounding area. To solve this problem, Pulliam wrote
                    to Roy Roberts, managing editor of the 
                        Kansas City
                    
                    Star and a close Landon adviser. Pulliam suggested that Roberts arrange a meeting
                    between Fairbanks and Landon because Fairbanks so admired the 
                        Kansas City
                     journalist. Pulliam asked Roberts: 
                        Will you have time to invite him to 
                                Kansas City
                             and take him out to Topeka for an hour's chat with Landon?
                            Confidentially, I have talked this over with McCarty, Managing Editor of The News, and he
                            thinks that you are the one person who can correct Fairbanks' attitude. A personal
                            invitation from you to come out to Kansas and meet Landon is the best possible way to smooth
                            over the situation and get him lined up with real enthusiasm.5
                  
                     Pulliam thus operated effectively behind the scenes and ably served the Landon campaign
                    outside of the regular party channeh6
            
            The efforts of Pulliam and many others in Indiana paid off at the Republican National Convention in
                    Cleveland when all of the state's twenty-eight delegates cast votes for Alf Landon. The
                    vice-presidential nomination went to Frank Knox, publisher of the Chicago 
                  
                     3 Eugene C. Pulliam to Willard Mayberry, August 19, 1936, Alfred M.
                            Landon Papers (Manuscripts Department, 
                                Kansas
                             State Historical Society, Topeka).
                  
                     4 Pulliam to Alfred M. Landon, August 19, 1936, Landon Papers.
                  
                     5 Pulliam to Roy Roberts, September 3, 1936, Landon Papers.
                  
                     6 This assessment is at variance with Pulliam's
                            grandson's biographical account of the publisher's involvement in the
                            campaign of 1936. See Russell Pulliam, Publisher: Gene Pulliam, Last of the
                                Newspaper Titans (Ottawa, Ill., 1984), 93.
               
                    
                    Daily News, after Senator Arthur Vandenberg of Michigan refused Landon's
                    overtures for the second spot. Vandenberg's selection for the vice-presidential nomination
                    was considered so certain, in fact, that Knox, who actively sought to be Landon's running
                    mate, had left the convention early. It was while traveling across northern Indiana, en route to his
                    Lake Shore Drive apartment in Chicago, that the publisher learned of his good fortune.
                    "While driving back home from Cleveland," he later told the Manchester, New
                    Hampshire, Leader (a paper he had founded), "we stopped at a little hotel
                    in 
                        Michigan City
                     for lunch. There I received a wire advising me that at that very minute my name was
                    being placed in nomination as running mate for Governor Landon. We found a small radio set and as I
                    tuned in, Senator Edge was stating that he was withdrawing in my favor. We sat and listened through
                    the remainder of the convention proceedings and I heard the convention secretary announce that I had
                    received 1003 votes."7
            
            On the other side of the political fence, Franklin Roosevelt enjoyed the overwhelming support of
                    Democrats throughout Indiana and the nation. Accordingly, he and Vice-president John Nance Garner of
                    Texas swept to unanimous renomination at the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia in late
                    June. The only serious Democratic opposition to the president came from the American Liberty League,
                    an organization characterized by its immense wealth, its identification with the du Pont family, and
                    its strongly conservative stance against the New Deal. The national Democratic machine was able,
                    however, to use the Liberty League's opposition to its own advantage, as when Democratic
                    National Committee Chairman James A. Farley declared that it "ought to be called the
                    American Cellophane League" because "first, it's a du Pont product and
                    second, you can see right through it." This clever depiction of the reactionary rich
                    against the common people demonstrated the administration's uncanny ability to paint the
                    picture that it wanted on the public canvas of 1936.8
            
            Because Democrats controlled both state and national offices after the decisive election of 1932,
                    most connections between the Roosevelt campaign and Indiana in 1936 involved people associated with
                    the administration of Democratic Governor Paul V. McNutt, with the federal government and its
                    agencies in the state, or with the Democratic National Committee. One exception was David Laurance
                    Chambers, the influential president of the Bobbs-Merrill publishing company in Indianapolis.
                    Chambers worked closely in 1936 with Tommy Corcoran, a trusted FDR aide, on the 
                  
                     7 Manchester Leader clipping, June 27, 1936, William
                            Franklin Knox Papers (Manuscript Division, Library of Congress, Washington, D.C.).
                  
                     8 George Wolfskill, The Revolt of the Conservatives
                            (Boston, 1962), 211-12.
               
                    
                    
                  The Presidential Campaign of 1936 in Indiana
                  Map prepared by Indiana University Audio-visual Center
               
                     Bobbs-Merrill Campaign Literature Project. In concert with
                    Chamhers and Bobbs-Merrill, Corcoran, who held a position at the time with the Reconstruction
                    Finance Corporation, coordinated the publication and distribution of all campaign materials for
                    Roosevelt's reelection effort. One book that both Corcoran and Chambers especially pushed
                    was Waste by David Cushman Coyle, a Republican. Waste discussed
                    the conservation of natural resources, a topic considered appealing to independents as well as to
                    many Republican voters; the work was part of the administration's strategy to reach beyond
                    its solid Democratic base. Only the year before Laurance Chambers had taken over as publisher of
                    Bobbs-Merrill, a nationally respected publishing house that had sponsored many of the writers of the
                    Hoosier group. Chambers, a good Democrat, had married into one of Indiana's most powerful
                    Democratic families, the Taggarts of Indianapolis and French Lick. His wife, the former Nora
                    Taggart, was the daughter of Thomas Taggart, wealthy developer and owner of the internationally
                    known French Lick Springs Hotel in southern Indiana, former mayor of Indianapolis, state Democratic
                    chairman, chairman of the Democratic National Committee, and 
                        United States
                     senator. The new ties between Bobbs-Merrill and these committed Democrats aided
                    FDR's campaign tremendously.9
            
            Governor McNutt, whom Norman Thomas once referred to as "a Hoosier Hitler,"
                    dominated Democratic politics in Indiana throughout most of the decade of the 1930s. McNutt had been
                    Indiana's strongest governor since Oliver P. Morton during the Civil War. McNutt
                    reorganized state government in 1933, combining 169 dispersed departments, bureaus, and agencies
                    into only eight departments, increasing the power of his office as well as improving bureaucratic
                    efficiency. He dominated government, in large part through an extensive statewide patronage
                    organization, with a politicized motor vehicle license branch system as its centerpiece. State
                    political appointees were expected to join the Hoosier Democratic Club, commonly called the Two
                    Percent Club since that portion of members' annual salaries was expected as a political
                        contribution.10 Actually, there was an assessment range based on
                    one's income. Higher salaries could be assessed at at least two and a half percent while
                    employees receiving less than seventy-five dollars per 
                  
                     9 David L. Chambers to James A. Farley, July 18, 1936, Thomas G.
                            Corcoran Papers (Manuscript Division, Library of Congress); Thomas G. Corcoran to Chambers,
                            August 23, 1936, ibid.; David Cushman Coyle, Waste: the Fight
                                to Save America (Indianapolis, 1936); obituary of David Laurance Chambers,
                            Indianapolis News, January 12,1963; Glenn Tucker, "Laurance
                            Chambers: The Man Who Knew Books—And Their Writers," The Indianapolis
                                Star Magazine, April 20, 1975.
                  
                     10 James H. Madison, The Indiana Way: A State
                            History (Bloomington and Indianapolis, 1986), 295-302; Howard H. Peckham, Indiana (New York, 1978), 145-47; William E. Wilson, Indiana: A
                                History (Bloomington, 1966), 123-26.
               
                     month were not required to pay anything.11
                    While the state party enjoyed the benefits of the club's treasury, it was controlled
                    entirely by the governor and operated independently of the Indiana Democratic State Central
                        Committee.12 This practice had a parallel on the federal level in Indiana.
                    Frank E. McKinney, a prominent Indianapolis banker, was state chairman of the finance division of
                    the Democratic National Committee in the state. One of his primary responsibilities was collecting
                    contributions from postmasters and other federal employees throughout Indiana for use in the
                    president's reelection effort.13
            
            Politics permeated state government in 1936. Paul McNutt had been elected on the ticket with FDR in
                    1932, but the state constitution barred him from seeking a second term. Using his considerable
                    political clout, McNutt then engineered the selection of Lieutenant-Governor Maurice Clifford
                    Townsend of Marion as his successor. Fortunately for Townsend, McNutt left a ten-million-dollar
                    budget surplus when he departed office. His use of the power of patronage was blatant and
                    undisguised in Indiana. To aid Town-send's election in November, 1936, the Democratic State
                    Central Committee, controlled by the incumbent governor, notified state employees that they had to
                    be in their home counties 75 percent of the weekends from late September through the general
                    election to work for the Democratic ticket. In addition, McNutt required state workers to make a
                    contribution of at least 1 percent of annual salary on October 1, since payday was the first of the
                    month. Employees were even asked if they could furnish a car on November 3 to take voters to the
                    polls. To guarantee that they worked the polls and voted themselves, state employees had to complete
                    a post-election form stating their position with the state, where they voted, and what election
                    service they had provided. The form required four signatures: those of the precinct committeeman,
                    the commit-teewoman, the county chairman, and the county vice-chairman.l4 Even
                    mother nature was not immune from the winds of patronage. Richard Lieber, the Republican father of
                    Indiana's excellent state parks system, complained that "the present State
                    Administration has set up a system of Conservation Clubs, so called, as political abjects [sic]. I would like to see at least, conservation kept out of 
                  
                     11 Homer Stonebraker. 
                                Cass County
                             Democratic chairman. to head of Logans-port State Hospital, Paul' V.
                            McNutt Papers (Lilly Library, Indiana University, Bloomington).
                  
                     12 I. George Blake, Paul V. McNuttc Portrait of a Hoosier
                                Statesman (Indianapolis, 1966). 142.
                  
                     13 Frank E. McKinney to Farley, n.d., Harold Ickes Papers (Manuscript
                            Division, Library of Congress).
                  
                     14 Letters from the 
                                Tippecanoe County
                             Democratic Central Committee to Nellie M. Coats, September 28, October 24,
                            1936, Nellie M. Coats Papers (Indiana Division, Indiana State Library).
               
                     the clutches of the self-seekers."15 In the end, Lieber himself was caught in the political web and removed by McNutt.
            The combination of politics and patronage inevitably led to political factionalism. Conflicts within
                    the Indiana Democratic party in 1936 arose over who would control the vast patronage apparatus in
                    the state; ideological controversies played second fiddle. At least three groups in the Democratic
                    party jockeyed for position. These factions were headed by Governor McNutt, Senator Frederick Van
                    Nuys, and McNutt's former patronage secretary, Pleas E. Green-lee. The split among the
                    Democrats was especially evident at the mid-June state convention in Indianapolis. The dominant
                    McNutt group had supported Townsend for governor, Van Nuys had backed E. Kirk McKinney of
                    Indianapolis, and Pleas Greenlee had launched his own candidacy.16 Senator Van
                    Nuys had created quite a divisive stir in the spring when he publicly charged that Works Progress
                    Administration projects and personnel in Indiana were being used to coerce support for
                    Townsend's nomination at the state convention. Wayne Coy, the state WPA director, launched
                    an elaborate refutation.17 Neither state nor national administration cared to
                    have such charges aired in an election year, and Van Nuys knew it. In any case, the McNutt-Townsend
                    forces prevailed on the first ballot at the state convention, but factional warfare simmered just
                    below the surface. There were concerns, of course, that state party feuds might hurt
                    Roosevelt's chances of carrying Indiana again in 1936. The Hoosier political waters were so
                    murky that Farley advised FDR to stay out of the Indiana disputes in 1935-1936.18
            
            Indiana was an important political battleground in 1936, with fourteen electoral votes eagerly sought
                    by both presidential contenders. The Gallup Poll, which was founded in October, 1935, identified
                    Indiana as a "borderline Republican" state in a presidential trial heat during the
                    period January 6-11, 1936. When Hoosiers were asked whether they would vote in November for FDR or
                    for the Republican candidate, whoever he might be, only 49 percent chose Rooseve1t.l9 Indiana, it seemed, was up for grabs. Thus, the president made three visits to the Hoosier
                    state—to Vincennes in June, to the northern region in late August, and to Indianapolis
                        
                  
                     15 Richard Lieber to O. G. Foellinger, January 16, 1936, Richard
                            Lieber Papers (Indiana Division, Indiana State Library).
                  
                     16 Iwan Morgan, "Factional Conflict in Indiana Politics
                            during the Later New Deal Years, 1936-1940," Indiana Mugazine of
                                History, LXXIX (March, 1983), 31,33.
                  
                     17 Coy to Harry Hopkins, April 26, 1936, Paul V. McNutt Papers
                            (Archives Division, Indiana Commission on Public Records, Indiana State Library).
                  
                     18 H. C. Harrington to Farley, April 24, 1935, Franklin D. Roosevelt
                            Papers (Franklin D. Roosevelt Library, Hyde Park, N.Y.); Morgan, "Factional
                            Conflict," 44.
                  
                     19 George H. Gallup, The Gallup Poll: Public Opinion,
                                1935-1971 (New York, 1972), 10.
               
                    
                    
                  FDR, ELEANOR ROOSEVELT, AND GOVERNOR
                                MCNUTT IN VINCENNES, INDIANA, AT THE DEDICATION OF THE GEORGE ROGERS CLARK MEMORIAL,
                                JUNE 14, 1936
                  Courtesy of Indianapolis Star Photograph Collection
                in September. All were ostensibly "nonpolitical" events. Landon, for his
                    part, made two extensive whistle-stop tours through northern Indiana in September and October in
                    search of Hoosier votes and in late October chose to outline his foreign policy proposals during a
                    major speech in Indianapolis, where he received an impressive welcome. Indiana played a major role
                    in the campaigns of both men in 1936. This was so not only because of the state's electoral
                    significance, but also because of its geographical convenience. In a time when campaigns were
                    conducted along the rails, Indiana occupied an enviable central location. Although the first
                    extensive campaigning by airplane was done in 1936, primarily by Union party candidate William
                    Lemke, the railroad continued to dominate the national political scene.
            The president's three visits to the state preceded the three Landon appearances. The first
                    Roosevelt appearance, in Vincennes on June 14, came after a presidential swing through Arkansas and
                    Texas, which was interesting both for its timing and its theme. Roosevelt was determined to divert
                    press and public attention from the Republican National Convention then meeting in Cleveland. To
                    that end, he toured these two southern states and received an astonishing reception, an estimated
                    750,000 people coming out to see him in Dallas-Fort Worth alone. His speeches centered on the 
                    
                  ROBERTA WEST NICHOLSON AND ELEANOR ROOSEVELT AT THE WPA SEWING
                                PROJECT, INDIANAPOLIS, JUNE 17,
                                1936, WITH HERMINA QUELLHORST AT SEWING MACHINE.
                  Courtesy of Indianapolis Star Photograph Collection
               
                     obligation of government to its citizens in a modern industrial
                    society and his defense against charges by the opposition that he had put America on the road to
                    some form of dictatorship. FDR also sent up a trial balloon suggesting a restructuring of the
                    Supreme Court, which had voided several of his major programs; he made the proposal formally the
                    following year.20 On his return trip to Washington, the president, accompanied
                    by Eleanor Roosevelt, stopped in Vincennes to dedicate the $2.5 million George Rogers
                    Clark Memorial along the Wabash River. Governor McNutt introduced the president to a crowd variously
                    estimated at between 30,000 and 75,000. As part of the festivities, those assembled sang a rousing
                    rendition of "On the Banks of the Wabash," Indiana's official anthem, for
                    their distinguished guests. In his remarks dedicating the memorial, FDR continued the theme of his
                    southern visit: 
                        Our modern civilization must constantly protect itself against moral defectives whose
                            objectives are the same but whose methods are more subtle than their prototypes of a century
                            and a half ago. We do not change our form of free government when we arm ourselves with new
                            weapons against new devices of crime and cupidity.21
                  
                     The controversial nature of the president's speech, about the role of government
                    in a modern industrial democracy, made for an exciting beginning of the presidential campaign in
                    Indiana.
            The Democratic campaign in Indiana received an additional boost from Eleanor Roosevelt. After the
                    memorial dedication in Vincennes, the first lady left the presidential party, which went on by rail
                    to Hodgenville, Kentucky, and motored to southern 
                        Illinois
                     for an inspection trip of area coal mines. Her day, on June 16, began at 4 a.m. in the
                    mines in Grayville, Illinois, and ended in Indianapolis with a series of public events. Exactly on
                    schedule, at 530 p.m., Mrs. Roosevelt's party wheeled into the drive of the
                    Governor's Mansion, where she was greeted by Governor and Mrs. McNutt and a delegation of
                    six Girl Scouts who welcomed their honorary national president with a bouquet of roses and
                    delphinium. The local press remarked upon her congenial nature after such a demanding day. The
                    McNutts gave a dinner party that evening in honor of Mrs. Roosevelt, attended by prominent Hoosier
                        Democrats.22 After dinner the first lady gave a Town Hall lecture at the
                        
                  
                     20 New York Times, June 11, 13, 1936.
                  
                     21
                            Ibid., June 15, 1936; Indianapolis Star, June 15, 1936.
                  
                     22 Among the guests at the Governor's Mansion were
                            Lieutenant-Governor and Mrs. Townsend; Dr. Carleton B. McCulloch, the 
                                Marion County
                             WPA director; Mrs. Emery Scholl of Connersville, the state Democratic
                            vice-chairwoman, and her husband; Thomas D. Taggart; Mrs. Samuel Ralston, the widow of the
                            former Hoosier governor and senator and the national committeewoman from Indiana; and Mrs.
                            Melvina Scheider, Eleanor Roosevelt's personal secretary. Clipping of Eleanor
                            Roosevelt's "My Day" column, January 22, 1936, Political
                            Parties-Democratic 1932-1944 (Indiana Division, Indiana State Library).
               
                     Murat Theater in which she discussed the pressing problem of
                    housing. She then visited the Federal Players at B. F. Keith's Theatre, going backstage
                    after the performance to talk to the actors in the local Federal Theatre Project. Winding up a long
                    day, Mrs. Roosevelt returned to the Governor's Mansion where she spent the night.23
            
            The next morning, June 17, Eleanor Roosevelt went to Purdue University to discuss housing. The
                    university was a logical destination because of its Purdue Housing Research Project, referred to on
                    campus as "Test Tube Village." She spoke about housing to 6,000 people at the
                    Armory in West Lafayette before returning to Indianapolis. Back in the capital city, she visited the
                    local WPA sewing project, which involved 900 women, in the R.C.A. Building at the corner of 
                        Michigan
                     and LaSalle streets. The project supervisor, who received Mrs. Roosevelt, was Roberta
                    West Nicholson, daughter-in-law of Meredith Nicholson, Hoosier author and FDR's ambassador
                    to Venezuela. The first lady then departed Indianapolis by train for Hyde Park.24
            
            The advantage that Mrs. Roosevelt's presence and humanitarian philosophy gave to the
                    Democratic campaign in Indiana was undeniable. In a letter to Ambassador Nicholson in Caracas,
                    Carleton B. McCulloch, a prominent Indianapolis Democrat, commented on her visit to the state:
                    "She certainly made a good impression out this way, was just was [sic]
                    comfortable and easy as an old shoe. She stayed overnight at the McNutts', and Kathleen
                    [McNutt] said she went around the house upstairs buttoning her dress and with her hair down. She is
                    a real asset to the administration." Roberta Nicholson remembered several decades later
                    that the first lady was highly intelligent and asked all the right questions during her visit to
                    Indianapolis in 1936. "I'll never forget," Nicholson said, "what
                    a natural, lovely and simple person she was, as I guess all real people are." Eleanor
                    Roosevelt's common touch made a deep and lasting impression on many Hoosiers.25
            
            The second and third appearances by the president in the state were "nonpolitical"
                    visits like the first one in Vincennes. These particular visits, part of a presidential tour, too,
                    were occasioned by a desperate drought situation the Midwest. The Roosevelt train traveled through
                    the affected areas, and the president spoke from the rear platform, offering encouragement and
                    concern. The rail tour was a perfect combination of genuine compassion and election-year 
                  
                     23 Indianapolis Times, June 16, 17, 1936;
                            Indianapolis Star, June 17, 1936.
                  
                     24 Indianapolis Star, June 18, 1936.
                  
                     25 McCulloch to Meredith Nicholson, July 13, 1936, Carleton B.
                            McCulloch Papers (Indiana Historical Society Library, Indianapolis); Roberta West Nicholson,
                            interviewed by F. Gerald Handfield, Oral History Interview #3, Roberta West Nicholson Papers
                            (Indiana Division, Indiana State Library), transcript, pp. 2-6.
               
                     politics. It began on August 25 and ended in Indianapolis on
                    September 5, covering some four thousand miles.
            The president's second visit to Indiana came as he made his way west to inspect the drought
                    conditions. On Wednesday, August 26, the nine-car presidential train crossed northern Indiana on the
                    Baltimore and 
                        Ohio
                     line, making stops in Garrett and Gary. Governor McNutt flew from Indianapolis to
                    Auburn and motored with Fred L. Feick, mayor of Garrett, to the rail town to board the train for the
                    ride across Indiana with the president. FDR's display of chumminess with McNutt was
                    intended to make up for a trip through Gary in 1934 during which the president's train
                    breezed right by Governor McNutt, who was left standing on the Gary station platform, his
                    humiliation at such a slight obvious to all. In 1936, a presidential election year, things were
                    different. Franklin D. Roosevelt, Jr., and the president's daughter-in-law, Betsey
                    Roosevelt, wife of eldest son James, joined FDR and McNutt on the rear train platform in Gary and
                    Garrett. The president's remarks at the Garrett station, where a thousand people turned out
                    at noon to see him, lasted just over three minutes but epitomized his effective campaign style:
                        
                        The Governor says I don't have to be introduced to an Indiana crowd. That's
                            fine. In fact, I remember coming through Garrett two years ago, but it was pretty late and I
                            think I had gone to bed, so I didn't see anybody.
                        I am going out, as you know, further West and up into the Northwest, to see some of the worst
                            drought conditions. I must say this, though, as a Hudson River farmer, that I have been
                            looking at the corn in Indiana today and I think our corn is a little better than yours this
                            year-but this year only, because you generally raise better corn than we do.
                        I am, of course, very much disturbed about these parts of the country that have practically a
                            total crop failure, and that is why I am going out to look at it and get information at
                            first hand.
                     "It is good to see you all," he waved and shouted as the train pulled
                    away from the station.26
            
            Gary, the industrial and ethnic bastion adjoining Chicago, was a critical campaign stop. 
                        Lake County
                     was the second most populous county in the state and could deliver a substantial
                    Democratic plurality if the New Deal coalition were effectively mobilized. 
                        Lake County
                     counted key elements of the coalition among its population, especially urban
                    steelworkers, ethnic groups, and blacks. There was a large crowd on hand, estimated by Gary police
                    at 12,000, by the Indianapolis News at 15,000, and by a railroad detective at
                    60,000. A band played at trainside as the presidential special rolled into Gary. FDR smiled as
                    McNutt gestured for the crowd to stop cheering long enough for him to introduce his guest. Roosevelt
                    sounded 
                  
                     26 New York Times, August 27, 1936; Indianapolis News, August 26, 1936; Indianapolis Star, August 27,
                            1936.
               
                    
                    
                  GOVERNOR MCNUTT, EDWARD C. ELLIOTT, PRESIDENT OF PURDUE UNIVERSITY, MRS. ELLIOTT, ELEANOR ROOSEVELT, MRS. MCNUTT, MRS. WILLIAM B. STOUT, WEST LAFAYETTE, JUNE 7, 1936
                  Courtesy of Indianapolis Star Photograph Collection
               
                     his national campaign theme during his nine-minute stop in
                    Gary, comparing conditions of 1932 with those in 1936: 
                        When we came into the station just now, Paul McNutt said to me, "So this is
                            Indiana," then I said, "It is a lot happier looking Indiana than the last
                            time I was here."
                        Of course, I'm glad to know things are going so much better, that they are so much
                            more prosperous in Gary and other industrial cities of the Middle West.27
                  
                     With that, the president left Indiana and embarked upon his inspection trip to the
                    drought-stricken midsection of the country.
            On his return eastward, FDR stopped in Indianapolis on September 5 to discuss the drought situation
                    with the governors and most senators from a four-state region, Indiana, 
                  Michigan, Ohio
               , and Kentucky. Accompanying the president were Secretary of Agriculture
                    Henry Wallace; WPA administrator Harry Hopkins; William Meyer, governor of the Farm Credit
                    Administration; and Robert Fechner, the director of Emergency Conservation Work. Led by a Hoosier
                    welcoming committee, the conferees went as a group to greet Roosevelt at Union Station.28
            
            From his arrival at about ten o'clock in the morning until noon, the president made a
                    twenty-five-mile tour of Indianapolis, riding in an open car with red, white, and blue bunting
                    across the tonneau. Riding with him were McNutt, Mayor John Kern of Indianapolis, and McCulloch. He
                    called out greetings to the crowd and waved his Panama hat in the warm summer sunshine. Moving
                    through the downtown business district, his motorcade was showered with ticker tape and confetti,
                    but the New York Times noted that the demonstration was mild when compared to
                    earlier ones in Des Moines, 
                        Iowa
                    , and Springfield, Illinois. The Republican Indianapolis News,
                    however, described his reception as a "lusty Hoosier welcome." Included on his
                    morning tour were more than a dozen work relief projects made possible by New Deal programs. He
                    visited Lockefield Gardens, a federal slum clearance project in the near downtown area where 20,000
                    waited to cheer him; the National Guard Armory at Frank and Meridian streets (Public Works
                    Administration); the boulevards and levees along the White River; the formal gardens at the Ball
                    Residence for nurses on the Indiana University Medical School campus (PWA); and a bit later, the
                    education 
                  
                     27 New York Times, August 27, 1936; Indianapolis News, August 27, 1936; Indianapolis Star, August 27,
                            1936.
                  
                     28 The local committee consisted of Governor McNutt; Senators
                            Frederick Van Nuys and Sherman Minton; Lieutenant-Governor Clifford Townsend; John W. Kern,
                            mayor of Indianapolis; Clarence E. Manion, state National Emergency Council director; Val
                            Nolan, 
                                United States
                             district attorney; Omer S. Jackson, state Democratic chairman; Wayne Coy, state
                            WPA director; Virgil M. Simmons, state director of public works; Thomas D. Taggart, national
                            committeeman; Carleton B. McCulloch, 
                                Marion County
                             WPA director; Irving Lemaux, Indianapolis businessman; and Bowman Elder,
                            chairman of the reception committee.
               
                     cation building, tunnel under the racetrack, and model farm
                    home at the state fairgrounds (WPA). One WPA project, an enclosed swimming pool at Riley Hospital,
                    which was used for therapy for crippled children and was modeled after the therapeutic pool at the
                    Warm Springs Foundation in Georgia, had a special appeal to the polio-stricken president.29
            
            With projects such as the Riley Hospital pool the Democrats shrewdly injected politics into relief, a
                    charge Landon and the Republicans were to make repeatedly throughout the campaign. McCulloch, the
                    county WPA director, sincerely felt that the therapeutic facility was a worthwhile project, but he
                    also recognized its political value, so much so that he hired Lowell Thomas to do a newsreel about
                    it and other relief projects. "It's running in the theatres here now [purely
                    non-partisan (?)], and last night Wayne Coy had it down in Washington and showed it in the bosom of
                    the Presidential family," McCulloch wrote Meredith Nicholson early in 1936.30 Behind the scenes, McNutt actively mixed politics and relief, too. When a reduction in
                    the number of Civilian Conservation Corps camps was under consideration in early 1936, the governor
                    advised Marvin McIntyre, secretary to the president, to cut back in states where the political
                    effect would be negligible. There should be, he offered, no cutbacks in doubtful states, and he made
                    it clear that any cuts in Indiana would be "decidedly harmful politically."31 And it was undoubtedly no coincidence that Wayne Coy, state director of the
                    WPA, had been a delegate to the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia in June and offered
                    political advice about Indiana to the Democratic National Committee as well as to Governor
                        McNutt.32
            
            Hoosier Republicans and others took exception to this manipulation of relief for political advantage.
                    Their opposition to this exploitation, and to the spoils system in general, appeared to many to be
                    merely the envy of a party turned out of power. Nevertheless, one of Indiana's most
                    well-known citizens, author Booth Tarkington, a staunch Republican, genuinely believed Alf Landon
                    would have no part of this practice. Writing to Ambasssador Nicholson from
                    "Seawood," his mansion in Kennebunkport, Maine, where he summered, Tarkington
                    explained, "I believe he's sincere in being dead against the whole spoils system
                    and I think he'd make a rather startling record in refusing his consent to any changes of
                    personnel 
                  
                     29 New York Times, September 6, 1936; Indianapolis
                                News, September 5, 1936; Indianapolis Star,
                            September 6, 1936.
                  
                     30 McCulloch to Nicholson, February 10, 1936, McCulloch Papers.
                  
                     31 McNutt to McIntyre, February 22, 1936, McNutt Papers (Indiana
                            Commission on Public Records).
                  
                     32
                            The Democratic Book 1936, Johnston Papers; Wayne Coy memorandum, Roosevelt
                            Papers; Coy to McNutt, September 3, 1936, McNutt Papers (Indiana Commission on Public
                            Records).
               
                    
                    
                  FDR, MAYOR JOHN KERN, GOVERNOR MCNUTT, AND GUS GENERICH, FDR's BODYGUARD, INDIANAPOLIS, SEPTEMBER 5, 1936
               
                    
                  LEFT TO RIGHT: SENATOR SHERMAN A. MINTON, SENATOR FREDERICK VAN NUYS, FDR, AND GOVERNOR MCNUTT AT THE INDIANAPOLIS ATHLETIC CLUB, SEPTEMBER 5, 1936
                  Courtesy of Indianapolis Star Photograph Collection
               
                     for political reasons."33 Whether
                    Tarkington was excessively partisan, just naive, or truly perceptive will never be known, but it is
                    clear that Franklin Roosevelt was a shrewd player in the game of politics.
            Since FDR's September visit to Indianapolis happened to coincide with the opening of the
                    annual Indiana State Fair, the presidential tour moved to the state fairgrounds on 38th Street,
                    where fifty thousand Hoosiers awaited his arrival. Thousands of people packed the grandstands to see
                    the president. The Roosevelt motorcade circled the race track and halted at a center spot in front
                    of the crowd where microphones had been set up so he could speak without leaving his car. The brief
                    talk—he spent a total of only fifteen minutes at the fairgrounds-was chatty and without
                    obvious political significance. Nevertheless, Roosevelt quickly established a bond of identification
                    with his audience, as he almost always did. The president said to the crowd: "One of the
                    penalties of being President—and there are many penalties—is that I
                    can't go to State fairs. I even missed my own county fair this year. That means something
                    to me because I was brought up in an atmosphere of fairs. My father, when I was a small boy, was
                    still trotting horses on the Grand Circuit."34
            
            After the city tour, the presidential party went to the Indianapolis Athletic Club at noon for a
                    three-hour period. They spent the first hour and a half meeting with the four state delegations
                    regarding drought conditions and agreed that soil conservation was the key to the problem. The next
                    hour and a half was devoted to a luncheon of Hoosier fried chicken for two hundred in the
                    president's honor. While the men met with the chief executive, Mrs. McNutt gave another
                    luncheon at the club for Mrs. James Roosevelt to which a number of Hoosier political wives were
                    invited. FDR commented at the Athletic Club: "I shall always remember these visits to
                    Indianapolis. In the 1932 campaign, I think the thing that stands out most clearly in my memory was
                    that wonderful meeting in the circle with those millions, almost—they seemed like
                    millions—with that sea of faces in front of me. On this visit I have been glad to see
                    more of the city and more of the fine work that has been carried on in the recent past."
                    Roosevelt very skillfully accomplished two things with his remarks: he again established a bond with
                    his Indianapolis audience by recalling the Monument Circle rally in 1932, and he reminded people in
                    an election year of "the fine work that has been carried on in the recent past."
                    Of course, the newspapers would remind a larger audience of local New Deal 
                  
                     33 Tarkington to Nicholson, September 14, 1936, Meredith Nicholson
                            Papers (Indiana Historical Society Library).
                  
                     34 New York Times, September 6, 1936.
               
                     relief efforts through coverage of his morning tour. The
                    president, in his luncheon address, denied bringing politics into his talk but then proceeded to
                    compare the desperate conditions of 1932 to the better ones of 1936. FDR left the Athletic Club
                    immediately after lunch for his train and departed Indianapolis for Washington at midafternoon.35
            
            Before leaving the state, however, Roosevelt's train stopped briefly in Connersville, the
                    result of a last-minute lobbying effort by that city's leaders and Governor McNutt.36 Over eight thousand people gathered in the 
                        Fayette County
                     seat to see the president. They extended a friendly, small-town welcome, even giving
                    flowers to Betsey Roosevelt, his daughter-in-law.37 McNutt introduced FDR and,
                    when the short program was over, left the train and flew back to Indianapolis. In his talk, the
                    president told of his drought tour and recalled his long association with Tenth District Congressman
                    Finly H. Gray, a Democrat running for reelection from east central Indiana. FDR explained that Gray
                    had served on the naval affairs committee when FDR was Woodrow Wilson's assistant secretary
                    of the navy. Within a matter of minutes, the affable president of the 
                        United States
                     was on his way back to the nation's capital.38
            
            The Republican campaign in Indiana had begun unofficially on Saturday, August 8, with a visit from
                    vice-presidential nominee Frank Knox. Notification ceremonies took place that day for Raymond s.
                    Springer, Republican gubernatorial candidate and Connersville attorney, in his hometown, thus
                    explaining why local Democrats so badly wanted FDR to stop in early September. Springer had won the
                    gubernatorial nomination on the second ballot at the Republican State Convention, held in early June
                    at the Coliseum in Indianapolis.39 He had defeated five other candidates, the
                    most serious challenge coming from Glenn R. Hillis of Kokomo, son-in-law of automobile pioneer
                    Elwood Haynes, who spent $50,000 in pursuit of the nomination.40 The
                    day's activities included a street parade at 12:30 p.m., the notification ceremony at the 
                        Fayette County
                     Fairgrounds later in the afternoon, and an evening address by Knox. The events were
                    coordinated in part by Arthur L. Gil-liom, a former Indiana attorney general who headed the Landon-
                        
                  
                     35 New York Times, September 6, 1936; Indianapolis
                                News, September 5, 1936; Indianapolis Star,
                            September 6, 1936; Indianapolis Times, September 5, 1936.
                  
                     36 Telegram to McNutt from mayor of 
                                Connersville
                             and 
                                Fayette County
                             Democratic chairman, September 4, 1936, McNutt Papers (Indiana Commission on
                            Public Records).
                  
                     37 Betsey Roosevelt to Inez Scholl, September 14, 1936, Political
                            Parties-Democratic 1932-1944 (Indiana Division, Indiana State Library).
                  
                     38 Indianapolis Star, September 6, 1936.
                  
                     39 Indianapolis Star, June 4, 1936.
                  
                     40 Robert K. Kyle, interview by F. Gerald Handfield, October 30, 1970
                            (Indiana Division, Indiana State Library), transcript, pp. 21-22.
               
                     Knox organization in the state. While Landon preached
                    moderation on the stump early in the campaign, Knox performed the role of Republican hatchet man. In
                    an election year already heated with rhetoric over intra-Republican party feuds, Liberty
                    League-related charges, labor quarrels, and accusations between business and labor, Knox frequently
                    performed his routine on the highly charged political stage. Launching his Indiana visit by meeting
                    with GOP leaders at the Columbia Club in Indianapolis, the Chicago publisher scored a direct hit
                    against Roosevelt, stating that "It has only been in the last three years we have words
                    from a President intended to create class hatred." In Connersville that evening, before
                    approximately forty thousand people, Knox picked up the themes that recovery had begun in 1932 and
                    that the Republicans represented free enterprise over Democratic economic regimentation. In
                    addition, he called for an end to waste in Washington, lower and fairer taxes, an end to monopoly,
                    the elimination of exploiting employers, and the jailing of anyone who engaged in dishonest business
                    practices. "But honest business is to be free," he said. Knox made a point of
                    declaring the National Recovery Act and Agricultural Adjustment Act, prime symbols of the
                    regimentation he so disliked, to be failures. Despite his stinging attack, Knox acknowledged that
                    some New Deal measures, such as the Civilian Conservation Corps, the regulation of the sale of
                    securities, and some banking legislation, were valuable. He pointed out, however, that "a
                    government that tries everything must do some things right. A man with both eyes shut firing a
                    machine gun is going to hit something after a while."41
            
            Within a week of Roosevelt's final visit to the state, on September 11 Governor Landon
                    joined the battle for Indiana's fourteen electoral votes. Because Maine held its
                    presidential balloting in September, the governor decided to make a last-minute pitch for votes in
                    Portland. On his way to Maine, Landon made his first whistle-stop tour across northern Indiana, much
                    of which was considered Republican territory. The five-city tour drew good crowds; 3,000 Hoosiers
                    came to see him at Gary, 2,000 each at Valparaiso and Plymouth, 3,000 at Warsaw, and 25,000 at Fort
                        Wayne.42
            
            Campaigning by rail in 1936 was certainly an interesting affair, with its fair share of technical
                    glitches as well as good times. Landon unfortunately experienced one of the glitches on this first
                    swing through Indiana when the speaker system on his train's rear platform went out in
                    Valparaiso and remained out of order in Plymouth. This meant that only a few hundred people in the
                    audiences 
                  
                     41 New York Times, August 9, 1936; Indianapolis Star, August 9, 1936; Edward J. Hecker, Irvington Republican Scrapbook
                            (Indiana Division, Indiana State Library).
                  
                     42 New York Times, September 12, 1936.
               
                     could hear the candidate well. The governor nevertheless
                    "made a very excellent impression in this County" according to one 
                        Marshall County
                     Democrat, who wrote to Farley asking that the president, too, arrange to stop in
                    Plymouth on a campaign trip.43
            
            Despite some problems, political rail tours were not without their lighter moments. After former
                    Pennsylvania governor Gifford Pinchot, well-known Republican progressive and Landon supporter,
                    boarded the train in Chicago and adopted the practice of jumping off at each Hoosier stop to listen
                    to Landon's speech and gauge the crowd's reaction. For whatever reason,
                    Pinchot's feet were still firmly planted on Hoosier soil when the train pulled out of the
                    station in Plymouth. He was barely able to swing back up onto the platform as the train rolled down
                    the tracks. The image of a national Republican party leader jumping a train hobo-style in little
                    Plymouth, Indiana, proved amusing indeed.44
            
            Another humorous anecdote of railroad campaigning came from Landon's second tour of the
                    state in mid-October. Robert K. Kyle, a reporter for the Indianapolis Star, happened to be with the
                    governor in the campaign train's dining car as it approached Logans-port. "Alf,
                    there's going to be some people out to greet you there," Kyle gestured just ahead
                    toward the 
                        Cass County
                     seat, "and so you ought to be sure and catch them." Kyle let the
                    other political reporters aboard in on his joke as Landon dutifully made his way next door to the
                    observation platform: the people the presidential candidate would see were prostitutes whose houses
                    faced the south side of the tracks along which the train passed. Sure enough, as the train pulled
                    into Logansport at lunchtime, women dressed in kimonos lined the tracks shouting out their greetings
                    to Landon. Embarrassed, the governor returned to the dining car and said to the prankster,
                    "Bob Kyle, you surely put a good one on me." Eight years later, at the Republican
                    Convention of 1944 in Chicago, Kyle, covering the gathering for the Star, was at
                    the Stevens Hotel (now the Hilton) and entered a large, dark elevator. He noticed that someone else
                    was on the elevator but paid little further attention. Suddenly, the person tapped Kyle on the
                    shoulder; it was Alf Landon. "Bob," he asked playfully, "how many votes
                    did I get in Logansport?" Obviously, the extended personal contact of a rail campaign made
                    for a variety of memorable experiences. With much to catch up on, Landon and Kyle went to the
                    former's hotel room and reminisced until after daylight.45
            
            The tales from the campaign trail during this period are colorful and entertaining, but the most
                    important aspect of campaigning 
                  
                     43 George Stevens to Farley, September 30, 1936, Roosevelt Papers.
                  
                     44 Indianapolis News, September 12, 1936.
                  
                     45 Interview with Kyle, October 30, 1970, transcript, pp.
                        24-26.
               
                     on the railroad was the exposure it gave the candidate to the
                    people and vice versa. The contact with voters that a rail campaign afforded a candidate cannot be
                    matched by the subsequent method of airport hopping for exposure in the various media markets. In
                    1986, James Roosevelt, eldest son of the first family and, as assistant to the president in 1936, a
                    frequent campaign traveler, confirmed the value of the time-honored rail campaign and lamented its
                    passing: 
                        … I certainly got a tremendous impression of the value of campaigning, by train,
                            bringing you close to the people, letting the people see you, getting their reactions, and
                            then having an opportunity to mix with the newspaper people to get their reaction as to how
                            the crowds were thinking, how they were responding, and, in general, how the campaign was
                            going. … I think the campaign method in those days was a great asset. And
                            I'm sorry in a way that we have not found a way to not make it so totally dependent
                            upon television and radio for our acquaintance with the candidates.46
                  
                    
            
            Landon pledged a "fighting campaign" at his first Hoosier stop in Gary. As his
                    train passed through Indiana, over one hundred Republican leaders boarded to rub shoulders and to
                    confer with the candidate and his staff. These leaders included Raymond S. Springer, who had
                    unsuccessfully sought the governorship in 1932 and was trying again; Joseph B. Kyle of Gary, also
                    unsuccessful in seeking the lieutenant-governorship in 1932 who had teamed up with Springer again;
                    and 
                        United States
                     Representative Charles A. Halleck of Rensselaer in the Second Congressional District,
                    Indiana's only Republican member of Congress. Another of those who boarded the train, State
                    Republican Chairman Ivan Morgan of Austin, was quoted as saying: "I told the Governor that
                    he need not worry about Indiana. Indiana is going Republican this year. The crowds at these short
                    stops show how popular Governor Landon is, and his popularity is increasing."47
            
            The stop at Warsaw was particularly significant because the Indiana Republican Editorial Association
                    happened to be holding its annual meeting at the Spink Wawasee Hotel and Country Club on nearby Lake
                    Wawasee. The GOP editors, in the spirit of their gatherings, put together a motor caravan to the
                    Pennsylvania Railroad station in the 
                        Kosciusko County
                     seat to hear Landon speak. Acknowledging their presence, the governor remarked: 
                        I know that the Indiana Republican Editorial Association is meeting near this city today.
                            Indiana and Kansas have the reputation of producing the best newspaper men of any two states
                            in the Union. I am not saying this as the trite expression of a campaign orator trying to
                            curry favor with the local community, but every newspaper man in the country knows that it
                            is true. We are proud in Kansas of our country press. It has been one of the great
                            influences in making Kansas the fine state it is and I know the same thing is true in
                            Indiana.
                    
                    
                  
                     46 James Roosevelt, interview with author via tape exchange, February,
                            1986.
                  
                     47 New York Times, September 12, 1936.
               
                     The day's Hoosier campaigning ended with the large
                    turnout at Fort Wayne where Landon blasted FDR for his "nonpolitical" drought tour
                    and for his many promises to the voters. With that, he was on his way east to court the voters of
                        Maine.48
            
            The Indiana Republican Editorial Association weekend meeting at Lake Wawasee marked the official
                    opening of the Republican campaign in Indiana. Henry Allen, former Kansas governor and senator and a
                    Landon booster, gave the Friday evening speech on September 11, the same day Landon whistle-stopped
                    through the area. Allen's particularly tough remarks pinned the badge of communism on the
                    president. The next day Republican national chairman and Landon campaign manager John D. M. Hamilton
                    came in to address a rally at the Lake Wawasee airport that party leaders predicted would attract
                    25,000 people, but those same leaders were sobered when only 3,500 of the GOP faithful turned out to
                    hear Hamilton. Paul Maddock of Bloomfield, president of the editorial association, groped for an
                    explanation why the 40,000 people that he predicted did not show up. He suggested that
                    Landon's cross-state trip might have detracted from the other speakers at the Republican
                    gathering. In any case, Hamilton continued to slash away at Roosevelt and the New Deal in his
                    remarks. He criticized FDR's "nonpolitical" drought tour, the unbalanced
                    federal budget, higher taxes, and Secretary of the Treasury Morgenthau's letter to the
                    president in August that no new taxes or tax increases would be necessary in the coming year. The
                    Republican chairman, discussing the administration's economic policy, called for casting
                    aside "the shackles of governmental restrictions and governmental regimentation."
                    The nastiness of the national campaign emerged again when Hamilton, commenting on fiscal policy,
                    said, "Governor Landon, having earned his own living, knows the value of
                        money."49
            
            The state ticket occupied center stage at the editorial association's Saturday evening
                    dinner and program. Raymond S. Springer, hoping to win the governor's chair this time, and
                    Charles Halleck, running for reelection to Congress, addressed the group. Springer proposed a repeal
                    of the state's gross income tax, passed under McNutt, and no new tax, such as a sales tax,
                    to replace it. He claimed he would maintain expenditures at the same level by eliminating waste and
                    inefficiency in state government to equal current revenues from the income tax. This position
                    strongly echoed the national Republican campaign strategy by Landon against 
                  
                     48 Indianapolis News, September 11, 12, 1936;
                            Indianapolis Star, September 12, 1936; New York Times,
                            September 12, 1936; Indianapolis Times, September 11, 1936.
                  
                     49 I ndianapolis Times, September 11, 12, 14, 1936;
                            Indianapolis Star, September 13, 1936.
               
                     Roosevelt. Springer's tax statement at Wawasee was a
                    response to McNutt's challenge at the Democratic State Convention in June that Republicans
                    explain how they could cut taxes, maintain expenditure levels, and still balance the state
                        budget.50 Despite the best of efforts, party disunity was evident at the
                    editors' meeting as rumors circulated throughout the weekend that Springer was running his
                    campaign independent of the state party. It was charged that Springer was receiving more assistance
                    from national party headquarters in Chicago than from state 1eaders.51
            
            Republican disunity in Indiana also reflected party divisions on a national level. Although local
                    Republican divisiveness here was based more on patronage than on ideology in 1936, it still pitted
                    Old Guard conservatives against the younger moderates. Conflicts within the Indiana Republican party
                    would become more ideological as time went by. The Old Guard's influence began to decline
                    in 1932 when its leader, Senator James E. Watson, was defeated for reelection by Frederick Van Nuys,
                    and the decline was accelerated by Sherman Minton's victory over Watson's ally,
                    Senator Arthur Robinson, in 1934. By 1936, the Old Guard faction, which opposed government
                    intervention in the economy and was strongly conservative on social issues, was on the ropes. This
                    Old Guard-moderate split, which sapped Republican strength in the battle against the Democrats,
                    vexed Landon until the very end.52
            
            Despite Landon's attention to the state, Hoosier Democrats were confident of victory in
                    mid-September. Democratic powerbroker Frank McHale wrote an eleven-page letter to Farley evaluating
                    the political situation in the state. McHale reported that the president should win Indiana by about
                    75,000 votes, less than in 1932, but still a comfortable margin. Reflecting a problem for Roosevelt
                    across the nation, McHale noted that only two of the large newspapers in Indiana backed FDR, the
                    Indianapolis Times, a Scripps-Howard publication, and the Fort Wayne Journal-Gazette. Controlling stock in the latter paper had been purchased behind the
                    scenes in October, 1935, by three prominent Democrats, Bowman Elder, Paul McNutt, and McHale
                    himself. As elsewhere, the Hoosier print media leaned heavily toward Landon.53
            
            
               
                  50 Keynote speech at 1936 Democratic State Convention, June 16, 1936, in
                            The Record of Democratic Government in Indiana under Governor Paul V.
                        McNutt. Copy in Paul V. McNutt (and family)-Governor, Indiana Clipping File, Indiana
                        Biography (Indiana Division, Indiana State Library).
               
                  51 Indianapolis Star, September 13, 1936; Indianapolis Times, September 14, 1936; flyer for 1936 Indiana Republican Editorial Association annual
                        meeting, Indiana Republican Editorial Association Records, 1895-1953 (Indiana Division, Indiana
                        State Library).
               
                  52 Morgan, "Factional Conflict," 45-47.
               
                  53 Farley to McHale, September 2, 1936, McNutt Papers (Indiana Commission
                        on Public Records); McHale to Farley, September 16, 1936, ibid.; purchase
                        agreement, October 15, 1935, McNutt Papers (Lilly Library).
            
            
            Landon's second whistle-stop route of October 15 included more towns and cities than that of
                    the preceding month and covered an area that ran from the northeast to the west central parts of the
                    state. The governor had just left Michigan and was headed for illinois. The crowds were good at the
                    seven stops in Kendallville, Huntington, Wabash, Peru, Logansport (where estimates ranged from 5,000
                    in the New York Times to 10,000 in the Indianapolis Star),
                    Lafayette, and Attica. It was estimated that a total of 50,000 Hoosiers greeted him along the tour
                    route, much of it along the Wabash River. Many stood along the tracks, hoping for a glimpse of the
                    candidate, as the train passed through the villages and towns of the northern Indiana countryside.
                    In Delphi, for instance, several thousand assembled just to see Landon pass by, and the
                    governor's train slowed briefly so that he could wave to them. Typical of Hoosier pride in
                    the state and its landscape, the Indianapolis News remarked: "The swing
                    down the Wabash valley, with its familiar sycamores, seemed to capture the
                    fancy and admiration of Landon." Again, nearly one hundred Republican leaders boarded the
                    train for its journey across Indiana, including newspaper publisher Eugene C. Pulliam, State
                    Chairman Morgan, Raymond s. Springer, and Joseph Kyle.54
            
            By the time this second Indiana tour took place, the tone of the national Landon campaign had changed
                    considerably. While Landon began the campaign as a Bull Moose progressive Republican who believed
                    government compassion could be efficiently administered within a balanced budget, he now campaigned
                    with increasingly reactionary rhetoric through October to election day. Outlandish charges were made
                    by Republicans concerning such issues as social security and governmental regimentation. What had
                    happened to the old Landon who left the Republican party twice, in 1912 and 1924, to follow other
                    candidates whom he felt were more progressive? One possibility is that Landon, having recognized
                    that his earlier campaign was not catching fire, decided to appeal to the Republican and Democratic
                    right wings who opposed the New Deal blindly. Another explanation involves staff manipulation,
                    especially by John D. M. Hamilton, the conservative national party chairman and campaign manager.
                    Landon confidant 
                  
                     54 The presidential candidate was introduced at towns along the way by
                            former 
                                United States
                             representative and 1936 congressional nominee David Hogg of Fort Wayne
                            (Kendallville); Raymond S. Springer (Huntington); Benjamin J. Brown of Kokomo, Fifth
                            District congressional nominee (Wabash); the vice-chairwoman of the Republican State Central
                            Committee, Mrs. J. E. P. Holland of Bloomington (Peru); Mrs. Charles A. Halleck
                            (Logansport); Lafayette newspaper publisher Henry W. Marshall (Lafayette); and former 
                                United States
                             Representative and Sixth District congressional nominee Noble J. Johnson of
                            Terre Haute (Attica). Indianapolis News, October 15, 1936; Indianapolis
                                Star, October 16, 1936; New York Times, October 16,
                            1936.
               
                     William Allen White once wrote about the campaign manager:
                    "If John Hamilton is a progressive, Wally Simpson is a nun."55
                    Hamilton later wrote that he and vice-presidential nominee Frank Knox conspired in 1936 to make the
                    Republican party America's conservative party. This directly contradicted the stated goals
                    of Landon, the candidate he supposedly was serving.56
            
            The tone of the Republican campaign in Indiana had also hit a strident note by this time. Out of
                    office for some time, with prospects not overly promising for a return to power in 1936, Indiana
                    Republicans unleashed rhetoric and accusations in political desperation. The campaign for reelection
                    in the Sixth District by 
                        United States
                     Representative Virginia Ellis Jenckes is a case in point. Jenckes, a resident of Terre
                    Haute, had achieved a certain fame in Indiana political history by becoming the first woman Hoosiers
                    sent to Congress. But in 1936 the representative found herself pinned down by a barrage of charges
                    from her opponent, Noble J. Johnson. Responding with the same reflex as many other Democratic
                    candidates across the country, Jenckes contacted numerous labor unions asking for their financial
                    support to rebut what she termed a "vicious, well-financed campaign" against her.
                    In the end, she prevailed.57
            
            Organized labor became the main source of funds for the national Democratic party in 1936 and
                    thereafter chiefly as a result of FDR's support of its right to collective bargaining. In
                    line with that trend, the Indiana State Federation of Labor resolved at its next annual convention
                    to throw its full weight behind the reelection of the president. Indiana labor's support
                    for Democratic candidates at the federal level was unquestioned. There were often problems, however,
                    between labor and the party at the state level. McNutt had a cool relationship with organized labor,
                    resulting especially from his calling out the Indiana National Guard during the coalfield strikes in
                    southwestern Indiana in 1935. Hoosier workers were enthusiastic about Townsend, however, because he
                    identified with the unions' cause and was more liberal than McNutt.58
            
            While organized labor got behind the Democratic ticket, corporate America mobilized for Landon, a
                    nationwide trend reflected 
                  
                     55 Arthur M. Schlesinger, Jr., and Fred L. Israel, History of American Presidential Elections, 1789-1968 (4 vols., New York, 1971),
                            III, 2817. The quotation referred to the sensational news event of 1936 when King Edward
                            VIII of England gave up the throne to marry American divorcee Wallis Warfield Simpson.
                  
                     56 Donald R. McCoy, Landon of Kansas (Lincoln,
                            Nebr., 1966), 281.
                  
                     57 Letters to various labor unions, Virginia Ellis Jenckes Papers
                            (Indiana Division, Indiana State Library).
                  
                     58
                            Official Proceedings of the Fitly-third Annual Convention of the Indiana State
                                Federation of Labor, September 21124, 1937, pp. 17-18; Morgan, "Factional
                            Conflict." 42.
               
                     in Indiana as well. Two of the more prominent Hoosier
                    executives who actively supported Landon were Josiah K. Lilly, Sr., head of Eli Lilly and Company in
                    Indianapolis and a Republican elector in 1936, and George A. Ball, member of the well-known Muncie
                    industrial family and of the executive committee of the Republican National Committee.59 To line up businessmen for their candidate, the committee formally organized an
                    industrial division, not an altogether difficult task given the animosity of big business toward
                    Roosevelt and the New Deal by this time. Sterling Morton, of Morton salt fame, headed the industrial
                    division, and Indiana was one of eleven states that he targeted. Eighteen directors were named
                    throughout the state, including Russell Fortune and John Ruckels-haus in 
                        Marion County
                    . Before the campaign ended, 2,366,890 pieces of literature had been distributed in
                    Indiana and 218,340 employees had been contacted by the industrial division. Republican employers
                    clearly had a well-organized mechanism through which they attempted to counteract the efforts of
                    labor on behalf of the Democrats.60
            
            The tone of the campaign was especially affected by Republican charges that Roosevelt's New
                    Deal was a socialist or communist enterprise at heart. Such charges received a careful hearing in
                    conservative Indiana. The president felt compelled to make a speech in Syracuse, New York, in late
                    September specifically to refute the communist charge. Much of the communist controversy swirled
                    around the issue of social security. FDR had signed the federal law, which passed Congress with
                    broad bipartisan support, in August of 1935, but the states still had to pass enabling legislation.
                    The new law, with key provisions for old-age pensions and unemployment compensation, had the strong
                    backing not only of Democrats but also of reform- and civic-minded groups in Indiana, such as the
                    League of Women Voters.61 On this issue, Indiana Democrats were apparently
                    caught, as was the national party, between those who thought the law did not go far enough and those
                    who felt that it went too far. Apparently fearing the political impact of charges by Dr. Francis
                    Townsend's movement for the retired that social security was not enough,
                    Lieutenant-Governor Clifford Townsend addressed the first national convention of the Townsend Clubs
                    in October, 1935, in Chicago, one of only three public officials to do 
                  
                     59
                            Book of the Republican National Convention, Will H. Hays Papers (Indiana
                            Division, Indiana State Library).
                  
                     60
                            A Report by the Industrial Division of the Republican National Committee, 1936
                                Campaign, Hays Papers.
                  
                     61 Indiana League of Women Voters letter to chairmen of government and
                            economic welfare, February, 1936, League of Women Voters of Indiana Records, 1910-1920
                            (Indiana Division, Indiana State Library).
               
                    
                    
                  PARADE AND RALLY FOR ALF LANDON, PERU, INDIANA, OCTOBER 15, 1936. ELEPHANTS WORE
                                BANNERS SPELLING OUT
                            "WELCOME LANDON"
                  Courtesy of Kansas State Historical Society
               
                     so.62 Roberta West Nicholson, who ran the
                    women's and professional division of the WPA in 
                        Marion County
                    , encountered the opposite accusation of communism firsthand. She was a Democratic
                    member of the special session of the General Assembly in March, 1936, which passed enabling
                    legislation for social security in Indiana. One winter morning, driving downtown to the State House,
                    a car pulled alongside hers as they both stopped for a traffic light. Harry Miesse, head of the
                    Indiana Taxpayers' Association, rolled down the window of his chauffeur-driven vehicle and
                    called out to her, "Are you going to vote for that terrible communist social
                    security?" When she replied firmly, "Yes, I am," his face flushed with
                    rage and indignation.63
            
            Despite the approaching debacle, Governor Landon received encouraging news from Indiana Republican
                    party activists as he rode the rails from Kendallville to Attica. Private party polling, broken down
                    county by county, indicated Landon would carry Indiana by a 20,000 to 60,000 vote margin.64 State Republican leaders did concede the state ticket would probably lead the
                    national ticket, but the polling news must have been music to Landon's ears.
            In his speeches across Indiana, Landon stayed with his earlier strategy of stressing government
                    efficiency and a balanced federal budget and of attacking FDR for his spending and debt policies.
                    Speaking in Kendallville of the New Deal, Landon charged: 
                        Its wasteful practices are in direct contrast with the good farm methods of Indiana
                            agriculture. The present administration has piled up an intolerable burden of public debt.
                            It rests largely on the backs of property owners, farmers and wage earners. They can not
                            pass their taxes on to some one else as other income-producing groups can … I am
                            opposed to waste, extravagance and debt because I am opposed to the ultimate confiscation of
                            farms and homes.65
                  
                    
            
            When the Landon train stopped in Peru, a parade of fourteen elephants lumbered out and lined up
                    facing the rear platform. Thirteen were bearing letters which spelled out the words WELCOME LANDON,
                    and the fourteenth carried a picture of Landon and Knox. This colorful greeting was made possible by
                    the circuses which wintered in the Peru area. In his platform remarks the candidate, undoubtedly
                    amused and impressed by the political pachyderms, expressed his appreciation for the unusual
                    welcome: 
                  
                     62 Programme of the First National Convention of Townsend Clubs,
                            October 24-27, 1935, Ralph Shackelford Papers (Indiana Division, Indiana State Library);
                            address of Governor M. Clifford Townsend at the Townsend Rally, Muncie, Indiana, June 23,
                            1940, M. Clifford Townsend Collection (Indiana Division, Indiana State Library).
                  
                     63 Interview with Nicholson, Oral History Interview #2, Roberta West
                            Nicholson Papers, transcript, pp. 55-56.
                  
                     64 New York Times, October 16, 1936.
                  
                            65
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                    
                    
                  ALF LANDON AND RAYMOND S. SPRINGER WAVING HATS IN PARADE, INDIANAPOLIS, OCTOBER 24,
                            1936
                  Courtesy of Indianapolis Star Photograph Collection
               
                     "They say an elephant never forgets. I never will
                    forget the cordial reception given me by the citizens of Peru and its vicinity."66
            
            Saturday, October 24, represented not only the high point of the Landon campaign in Indiana but also
                    a high point of his national campaign. Indianapolis in particular earned a prominent place in the
                    history of the presidential campaign of 1936 on that day when the Republican nominee came to the
                    city to lay out his ideas on foreign policy for the nation's voters to consider.
            Henry W. Marshall, publisher of the Lafayette Journal-Courier, endorsed the idea of
                    Landon's making a major speech and appearance in the capital city rather than in his loyal
                    Republican part of the state. Marshall, described by Landon adviser Oscar Stauffer as a person
                    "who did so much in the pre-convention campaign in Indiana," wrote to Stauffer on
                    September 30: 
                        Some time ago I wrote to Governor Landon urging that he come to Indiana for an address and
                            suggested that it be at Lafayette on account of the Second Congressional District. This
                            being the big Republican district of the state. However, I now find that a movement is at
                            hand for the Governor to make a speech at Indianapolis where every effort would be made to
                            have all the farm organizations to join and make it the big political gathering of the
                            campaign.
                        I am exceedingly anxious to have everything done that will be for the best interests of
                            Governor Landon's candidacy. Therefore, if the plans now being made are carried
                            out, believe it would be better for the Governor to speak at Indianapolis. This would bring
                            people from all over southern Indiana as well as northern Indiana.
                        Another reason that I have is because President Roosevelt, on his return visit from the
                            drouth section, stopped at Indianapolis during the State Fair and had a parade to the Fair
                            Grounds, where he talked to thousands of people gathered there. Of course, he gave out that
                            it was one of his nonpolitical speeches. Nevertheless, it was far from it.67
                  
                     The movement referred to by Marshall succeeded not only in bringing Landon to Indianapolis
                    but also in making the event "the big political gathering of the campaign."
            The "big political gathering" bothered Democratic Governor Paul McNutt just a bit.
                    Writing Farley on October 23, McNutt gave 80,000 as a conservative estimate of the
                    president's majority in Indiana but cited two factors that could influence the outcome: the
                    effort by employers to arouse antagonism against the Social Security Act and Landon's
                    upcoming appearance in Indianapolis. McNutt added, "I am not afraid of Landon's
                    speech, but the effects of a large crowd may be damaging."68 Four days
                    earlier, Frank E. McKinney, state chairman of the finance division of the Democratic National
                    Committee in Indiana, expressed the same concern to 
                  
                            66
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     67 Henry W. Marshall to Oscar S. Stauffer, September 30, 1936 and
                            Oscar S. Stauffer to Carl Rott, October 5, 1936, Landon Papers.
                  
                     68 McNutt to Farley, October 23, 1936, Roosevelt Papers.
               
                     Farley about Landon's appearance and advised a
                    follow-up visit by FDR to Indiana. Key Hoosier Democrats were visibly uneasy.69
            
            Marshall headed an official reception committee which consisted of well-known Indiana Republicans,
                    including Will H. Hays, the Hoosier president of the Motion Picture Producers and Distributors of
                    America and former state Republican chairman.70 Upon arriving in the city that
                    morning on the Sunflower Special to the cheers of thousands, Landon was whisked to his suite in the
                    Clay-pool Hotel at the corner of Washington and 
                        Illinois
                     streets. Almost the entire third floor of the hotel was taken up by the Landon party
                    and the accompanying press. There he conferred with party leaders, including State Republican
                    Chairman Morgan, National Committeeman George Ball, and gubernatorial hopeful Springer, all of whom
                    assured Landon that he would carry the battleground state of Indiana. A bit later, the candidate
                    dropped in at a Republican State Central Committee luncheon and at a conference of Republican farm
                    leaders.
            Indianapolis Republicans gave a parade for the nominee in the afternoon that ranks as one of the
                    city's premier political events. The crowds along the parade route were described as
                    "tremendous" by the New York Times, while Monument Circle was
                    packed with approximately 100,000 people. The crowds were not only large but enthusiastic as well in
                    their support for Landon, with the only booing, which was mixed with cheers, coming in the black
                    district of the city. Landon himself led the parade for twelve blocks, from the Walker Theatre to
                    the Circle, waving his hat to acknowledge the roar of cheers, and then reviewed the procession from
                    a balcony of the Claypool Hotel. The Kansas governor insisted upon taking an active role in the
                    day's events despite his physician's advice for rest to overcome a bad cold. The
                    noise generated by the throng was heightened by the shrill sounds of tin whistles, some 40,000
                    provided that day by the head of the Republican State Committee's foreign-born citizens
                    bureau, blowing in cadence the first three notes of "Three long years," a campaign
                    ditty that blasted the first Roosevelt term. The parade that Landon saw passing below consisted of
                    thousands of marchers, hundreds of automobiles, numerous organizations, banners, floats, and the
                    fourteen elephants from Peru again spelling out WELCOME LANDON. Among the banners were such lines as
                    MOSCOW WILL WATCH THE COUNT ON ELECTION DAY and OUR ANCESTORS WATCH THE WAY WE VOTE. One poster
                    featured a picture of a tramp over the words I PUT MY O.K. ON THE NEW DEAL. As reflected in this
                    poster, 
                  
                     69 McKinney to Farley, October 19, 1936, McNutt Papers (Indiana
                            Commission on Public Records).
                  
                     70 Arthur L. Gilliom to Hays, October 22, 1936, Hays Papers.
               
                     the debate over the president's program sometimes
                    manifested itself in Indiana and throughout the nation in unpleasant ways. The floats in the parade
                    were both creative and amusing. One featured a pretty girl riding in a "horse and
                    buggy," a pointed slap at Roosevelt's characterization of the Supreme Court which
                    had voided parts of New Deal legislation. Another displayed the results of a Literary
                        Digest poll that gave the upcoming election to Landon. The Digest would
                    soon fold as a consequence of its error. Organizations in the procession included the Landon-Knox
                    clubs, Spring-er-for-Governor Club, Jeffersonian Democrats, Independent Coalition of American Women,
                    Republican War Veterans, Republican Volunteers, Republican Minute Men, Young Republican clubs, and
                    the ward and county Republican organizations. Almost every one of these groups was preceded by a
                    band or drum corps.
            The size and enthusiasm of the welcome extended by Indianapolis stood in stark contrast to the
                    lackluster reception Landon had received in many areas of the nation during the autumn months of
                    1936. Many of his appearances had been embarrassing. Occasionally people refused to be photographed
                    with the candidate, and his organizers were unable to fill the Los Angeles Coliseum for a major
                    California speech. Landon and his staff, then, especially appreciated the warm response in
                    Indianapolis. Indeed, the governor and his aides felt the reception confirmed the state party
                    leaders' predictions of victory in Indiana.
            Landon scheduled his foreign policy address for Saturday evening at the Fairgrounds Coliseum. The
                    building soon filled to its capacity of 14,000, so police closed its doors fifty minutes before his
                    speech. To accommodate the overflow, approximately 4,000 people were sent to the
                    Manufacturers' Building or to the front of the grandstand where Landon could be heard
                    through loudspeakers. After Republican National Committeeman Ball introduced the governor as
                    "honest, courageous and not to be corrupted," the crowd cheered Landon for more
                    than five minutes, his greatest ovation in four months of campaigning. He made several attempts to
                    quiet the crowd, but they refused. Indianapolis was clearly determined to make this a memorable day
                    for Alf Landon. When the cheering settled down, the Republican nominee launched into an explanation
                    of how he would manage American foreign policy.
            To maintain world peace, Landon proposed the following: mediation and arbitration to settle disputes;
                    legislation to take the profits out of war; restoring international confidence in the good faith of
                    the American government, which he claimed FDR destroyed by ruthlessly disrupting the London Economic
                    Conference of 1933; fairness in dealing with others; lowering trade barriers; helping achieve
                    healthy world economic conditions; and the abandonment of the League of Nations and a pledge that
                    the 
                        United States
                     must never join a politicized World Court. Landon's main  point, however, was that the 
                        United States
                     must mind its own business in international affairs. Quoting Theodore Roosevelt, he
                    declared that "we must not become a meddlesome Matty," a curious comment to have
                    come from the lips of Teddy Roosevelt. This remark brought some of his greatest applause, as did
                    comments about the League of Nations and war profits. These positions, of course, satisfied the
                    strong isolationist opinion of the Hoosier and American public during the 1930s. On the other hand,
                    he did go on to say that a policy of isolation was impossible in the modern world and that absolute
                    neutrality could encourage belligerent powers toward aggression if they knew that the 
                        United States
                     would not respond. Given the political climate of 1936, that alone took a measure of
                    courage. At the conclusion of the speech, the audience rose to its feet and cheered. Shouts of
                    "good boy" and "hurrah for Landon" echoed throughout the hall.
                    All in all, the governor had been interrupted by applause twenty-nine times during a twenty-four
                    minute speech. Indianapolis had indeed made its mark on Alf Landon's quest for the
                    presidency. As the Indianapolis Star remarked, this had been an "all-day
                    demonstration unprecedented in the political history of Indianapolis."71
            
            After spending the night in his suite at the Claypool, the governor attended Sunday services at
                    Broadway Methodist Church where the Reverend Richard M. Millard preached on the topic "The
                    Sacredness of High Privilege." Afterward, Landon departed Indianapolis, thus wrapping up
                    his campaign for Indiana's electoral votes.72
            
            The campaign, although nasty and mean-spirited at times, had been exciting in both Indiana and the
                    nation at large. Landon, propelled to the Republican nomination through a newspaper candidacy, had
                    begun the general election campaign as a moderate. But after the middle of September his rhetoric
                    became increasingly shrill with charges of Roosevelt leading the country down the road to
                    dictatorship. The harsh Republican charges in Indiana, however, came from individuals other than
                    Landon, such as Frank Knox, Henry Allen, John Hamilton, and local Republicans. As Landon traveled by
                    train across the northern half of the state, he tended to emphasize his image as an efficient
                    manager who could balance a budget. In Indianapolis he delivered the major foreign policy address of
                    his campaign, a reasoned and moderate speech. Franklin Delano Roosevelt, who did not officially open
                    his campaign until the end of September, had paid three "nonpolitical" visits to
                    Indiana by the beginning of that month, reminding voters of the benefits 
                  
                     71 Indianapolis News, October 24, 1936; Indianapolis
                                Star, October 25, 1936; New York Times, October 25,
                            1936.
                  
                     72 New York Times, October 26, 1936.
               
                     of the New Deal during the Depression. The president, who also
                    campaigned in the state by rail, shrewdly manipulated the power of incumbency to counter Republican
                    domination of the print media. During the campaign, Hoosiers had many opportunities to see the two
                    candidates up close as they made numerous whistle stops across the state. And in the capital city,
                    they observed or participated in the political theater of significant presidential campaign events.
                    From a political perspective in 1936, Hoosiers could appreciate their state motto, "The
                    Crossroads of America."
            The results of the presidential election of 1936 are most memorably summed up by Democratic National
                    Chairman Jim Farley's comment, "AS Maine goes, so goes Vermont,"
                    rephrasing the political maxim, "As Maine goes, so goes the nation." The president
                    carried forty-six of the forty-eight states; the electoral count was 523 to 8, the greatest triumph
                    since James Monroe's uncon-tested victory in 1820. The popular vote percentages were 60.8
                    percent for FDR and 36.5 percent for Landon. FDR's percentage was the greatest in recorded
                    American political history to that time. Union party candidate Lemke received only 2 percent of the
                    popular vote, and Norman Thomas, running on the Socialist ticket, failed to register even a single
                    percentage point; neither won any electoral votes. The GOP now held just 88 seats in the House of
                    Representatives as against the Democrats' 333 and a mere 16 seats in the Senate where the
                    Democrats had 75, the balance in both houses going to minor parties and vacancies. Landon and the
                    Republican party had gone down to a crushing defeat. Many Hoosier Republicans found the results
                    difficult to accept. One, Grace Polk of Greenwood, wired Landon this message the day after the
                    election, "IMPOSSIBLE TO ACCEPT ELECTION REPORT-WHAT CAN BE DONE TO SECURE A CORRECT
                        COUNT."73
            
            Although voters in Indiana were more kind to the Kansas governor than in the nation at large, giving
                    him 691,570 (41.9 percent) votes to FDR's 934,974 (56.7 percent), the president had still
                    scored a stunning victory in a normally Republican state. The 1936 election was one of only four in
                    this century when Indiana voted Democratic, the others being 1912, 1932, and 1964. William Lemke,
                    for his part, received only 19,407 (1.2 percent) votes across the state while Norman Thomas won a
                    mere 3,856 (.2 percent) Hoosiers over to his cause.74 The president's
                    margin of victory among Hoosiers was surprising since the Gallup Poll on October 24 released results
                    of a trial heat that put FDR at 50.6 percent and Landon at 46.3 percent, Lemke at 2.8 percent, and
                    others at .3 percent.75 As impressive 
                  
                     73 Grace Porterfield Polk to Landon, November 4, 1936, Landon Papers.
                  
                     74
                            Year Book of the State of Indiana, 1936 (Fort Wayne, 1937), 891-996.
                  
                     75 Gallup, The Gallup Poll, 37.
               
                     as Roosevelt's statewide numbers were, he did even
                    better in the state's cities, winning 62 percent of the vote in the seven most urban
                        counties.76
                    
                        Marion County
                    , the most populous county in the state, gave a substantial plurality to the president,
                    124,961 to 87,798. These numbers were remarkably close to those from a poll that Congressman Louis
                    Ludlow of Indianapolis reported to FDR's secretary Marvin McIntyre on October 10. 
                        Marion County
                     Democratic Chairman Boetcher and his organization had conducted the poll (kept
                    confidential so party activists would not relax their efforts) which showed Roosevelt beating
                    Landon, 121,948 to 79,673, while 49,231 were classified as doubtful.77
            
            Following the national trend, Democrat Clifford Townsend defeated Springer for the
                    governor's office, receiving more than 55 percent of the two-party vote. The Democrats won
                    eleven of the state's twelve congressional districts, losing only in the Second, which
                    encompassed the Lafayette area, where Charles Halleck was reelected. In the Indiana General
                    Assembly, Democrats captured twenty-three of twenty-six open seats in the Senate and increased their
                    majority in the House from sixty-five to sixty-seven out of one hundred seats. Voter interest and
                    participation were high in Indiana in 1936, with an estimated turnout of 76.7 percent of those
                    eligible to cast ballots.78
            
            There were, however, some positive points in all of this for Landon. He polled nearly a million more
                    votes nationally than Hoover had in 1932, a fact obscured by his lopsided electoral college defeat.
                    The electoral vote, in fact, exaggerated the extent of his defeat since his 36.5 percent of the
                    popular vote translated into only 1.5 percent of the electoral vote. Landon also carried
                    eighty-seven more counties across the country than Hoover did in the preceding election. That trend
                    of improvement over 1932 Republican numbers was reflected in Indiana as well. Landon received over
                    14,000 more votes in the state than Hoover four years earlier and carried twenty of the ninety-two
                    counties, while the former president had won only ten. Unfortunately for the Kansas governor, while
                    the total two-party vote in Indiana increased by more than 87,000 votes (5 percent) over 1932,
                    Franklin Roosevelt claimed the lion's share of them. Perhaps the sweetest consolation for
                    Landon came from winning Roosevelt's hometown of Hyde Park, New York.79
            
            
               
                  76 Morgan, "Factional Conflict," 57.
               
                  77 Ludlow to McIntyre, October 10, 1936, Roosevelt Papers.
               
                  78 James H. Madison, Indiana through Tradition and Change: A
                            History of the Hoosier State and its People, 1920-1945 (Indianapolis, 1982), 135-36.
               
                  79 Schlesinger and Israel, Presidential Elections, III,
                        2843; Year Book of the State of lndiana, 1932 (Indianapolis, 1933), 1469-1538;
                            Year Book of the State of lndiana, 1936. 891-996.
            
            
            Roosevelt's New Deal coalition consolidated its position in the presidential election of
                    1936. Its key components-lower-income groups, urban dwellers, ethnic groups, blacks, and labor-fully
                    coalesced in this election. In Indiana, the evidence of this political fact was most compelling in 
                        Lake County
                    , which for years had voted Republican. Even in 1932, in the depths of the Depression,
                    Hoover lost the county only by a vote of 46,060 to 42,596. But by 1936, the completed coalition gave
                    FDR an overwhelming victory, 68,551 to 33,689. 
                        Lake County
                    , with its immigrant, black, and labor voters, became a bastion of the Indiana
                    Democratic party.80
            
            The 1936 election reshaped the nation's political landscape. With the massive shift of
                    lower-income groups to the Democratic party, socioeconomic class became a key determinant of voting
                    behavior. Blacks broke their traditional allegiance to the party of Lincoln and moved in large
                    numbers to the party of Jackson. Organized labor became the Democrats' chief financial
                    backer. And the party emerged as the nation's majority party after a long period of
                    Republican dominance. The reasons for all of this are many, but two stand out: Roosevelt's
                    charismatic personality and his New Deal response to a devastating depression. Landon's
                    personality and program were no match. Philosophically, Franklin Roosevelt's concept of the
                    modern welfare state, where government accepts responsibility for the well-being of its citizens,
                    was overwhelmingly approved by Hoosiers and the American people in 1936.
            
               
                  80
                        Year Book of the State of Indiana, 1932, 1469-1538; Year Book of
                            the State of Indiana, 1936, 891-996.
            
         
         
         
            "Dispute Every Inch of Ground": Major General Lew Wallace Commands Cincinnati,
                    September, 1862
            
                    Vernon L. Volpe
                    *
                
            Indiana native son Lew Wallace, famous as the author of Ben-Hur, is less remembered
                    as one of the highest ranking Union generals during the Civil War. A romantic even as a soldier,
                    Wallace hungered for military glory and always longed for a command assignment where he might
                    experience the thrill of battle while promoting his military renown.1 Fortunate
                    political connections assured him a rapid rise in rank during the early days of the war. Promoted to
                    major general of volunteers after contributing to the capture of Fort Donelson, Wallace saw his
                    blossoming career trimmed at Shiloh where Ulysses S. Grant suspected him of incompetence for failing
                    to bring his division promptly into line on the critical first day of battle. For the rest of the
                    war, indeed for much of the rest of his life, Wallace desperately sought to regain the glory lost at
                        Shiloh.2 His first major opportunity came when several thousand Confederate
                    troops under the command of Brigadier General Henry Heth threatened Cincinnati late in the summer of
                        1862.3 This time there were to be no more mistakes; Wallace meant to defend
                    "every inch" of Union soil and thereby his own military reputation.4
            
            
               
                  * Vernon L. Volpe is assistant professor of history, Kearney
                        State College, Kearney, Nebraska. He would like to acknowledge the financial assistance of the
                        Kearney State College Research Services Council in preparing this article.
               
                  1 As the nation focused on the brewing sectional crisis in 1860, Wallace
                        was eager for war against Mexico. Wallace to Governor [Ashbel P. Willard], March 20, 1860,
                        Oliver P. Morton Collection (Archives Division, Indiana Commission on Public Records, Indiana
                        State Library, Indianapolis); Wallace to Oliver P. Morton, September 24, November 1, 1861, ibid.
               
               
                  2 Irving McKee, "Ben-Hur" Wallace: The Life
                            of General Lew Wallace (Berkeley, Calif., 1947), 49-57. James Lee McDonough generally
                        defends Wallace's actions at Shiloh. Shiloh-in Hell before Night
                        (Knoxville, Tenn., 1977), 96, 156-61.
               
                  3 For a discussion of the rebel threat to Cincinnati, see Vernon L. Volpe,
                        "Squirrel Hunting for the Union: The Defense of Cincinnati in 1862," Civil War History, XXXIII (September, 1987), 242-55.
               
                  4 Wallace to General [?], September 10, 1862, Wallace Letter and Order
                        Book (Archives Division, Indiana Commission on Public Records). The author thanks John Selch of
                        the Indiana State Library for bringing this source to his attention.
               INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, LXXXV (June, 1989). ©1989, Trustees of Indiana
                        University. 
            
            
            On August 30, 1862, a crushing Union defeat at Richmond, Kentucky, had left the road to the Ohio
                    River open. After invading the bluegrass state Kirby Smith's greycoats had advanced to
                    Richmond and there destroyed nearly the entire federal force of over six thousand hastily prepared
                    troops. Smith then directed Heth's legion to march toward the undefended city of
                        Cincinnati.5 Just before the Richmond debacle Wallace had been removed from
                    the Kentucky command (to be replaced by the hapless William "Bull" Nelson), and as
                    a result he remained the highest ranking officer in the vicinity ready for duty. Major General
                    Horatio G. Wright, commander of the Department of the Ohio, thus appointed Wallace to defend
                    Cincinnati and its sister Ohio river cities of Covington and Newport,
                        Kentucky.6
            
            Despite his dubious military credentials and his well-developed sense of self-importance, Wallace
                    proved to be the ideal choice for this critical assignment. The unusual situation called for an
                    energetic commander with a flair for the dramatic. Wallace's troop placements certainly
                    safeguarded the vital Union city but just as important were his efforts to arouse the populations of 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana to defend their firesides from rebel invaders. Wallace's failings
                    as a field commander proved harmless in this case; indeed, his hyperactive approach to battle may
                    have saved lives on both sides of the Cincinnati trenches.
            Late on September 1, 1862, Wallace arrived in Cincinnati and promptly assumed command. Taking care to
                    win the support of civic leaders (including the newspaper editors), Wallace immediately proclaimed
                    martial law, suspended business in the cities, and ordered all able-bodied men to report for duty in
                    the trenches he planned to dig on the hills beyond Covington and Newport.7 The
                    response to Wallace's call was instantaneous and impressive; so many city residents and
                    volunteers from rural 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana flocked to the colors that eventually Wallace commanded some seventy-two
                    thousand men, one of the larger forces assembled during the entire war.
            Defending Cincinnati was no easy duty. Wallace faced the challenging task of having to make military
                    preparations while ruling the thousands of civilians under his protection. Following the rout at
                    Richmond, Wallace's first responsibility was to dispose 
                  
                     5 U.S., War Department, The War of the Rebellion: A
                                Compilation of the Official Records of the Union and Confederate Armies (128 vols.,
                            Washington, D.C., 1880-1901), ser. I, vol. XVI, part I, pp. 906-52, cited hereafter as Official Records.
                  
                  
                     6 Horatio G. Wright to Wallace, September 1, 1862, Official Records, ser. I, vol. XVI, part XI, p. 470; Lew Wallace: An
                                Autobiography (2 vols., New York, 1906), II, 603-609, contains Wallace's
                            dramatic retelling of the Richmond defeat and his subsequent assumption of command.
                  
                     7 The Cincinnati Gazette, Enquirer, and Commercial all published Wallace's proclamation on September 2, 1862. See
                            also Wallace, Autobiography, 607.
               
                     his few available troops to prevent a rebel rush toward
                    Cincinnati. He had not only to cover several roads to Covington and Newport but also to watch fords
                    across the Ohio River (then at its lowest stage) for miles below and above the city. For the latter
                    purpose Wallace assembled a makeshift fleet of sixteen river steamers to patrol the 
                        Ohio
                     and to support the units along the river. Wallace later admitted that he was unable to
                    post a proper guard the first night because men were simply not available.8
            
            Although the people of Cincinnati cooperated with Wallace's command to a remarkable extent,
                    his proclamation of martial law did provoke expected controversy. Several of the city's
                    profit-minded businessmen especially resented the suspension of commerce in favor of military
                    drills. Some complained of the lack of organization within the ranks and warned that it would be
                    impossible to keep "the most intelligent buissiness [sic] men of the
                    city" content in the trenches across the river.9 Even more hated was
                    the prohibition against selling alcohol. Some residents of German origin protested by tearing up the
                    tracks of the city's streetcars, which had been allowed to continue operation. Several
                    thirsty Union soldiers responded to the dry order by entering an establishment run by a widow and
                    "confiscating" fifteen gallons of Catawba wine and a keg of beer.10
            
            Shortly after the proclamation of martial law some dissatisfied citizens held a meeting to protest
                    the stringency of Wallace's command.11 Voiced mainly by an aggrieved
                    minority, the complaints against Wallace's martial law decree finally persuaded Horatio
                    Wright to direct Wallace to rescind his order suppressing business. Wallace immediately complied but
                    offered his resignation, claiming Wright doubted his judgment.I2 Besides
                    considering his own 
                  
                     8 Wallace to Colonel [Sidney] Burbank, September 2, 1862, Wallace
                            Letter and Order Book (Indiana Commission on Public Records); R. M. Corwine to Wallace,
                            September 6, 1862, ibid. For Wallace's contemporary account of
                            his role in the defense of the cities, see Wallace to John J. Henderson, June 22, 1863,
                            Wallace Collection (Indiana Division, Indiana State Library, Indianapolis). Henderson had
                            written Wallace requesting the "secret account" of the siege suitable for
                            publication. Henderson to Wallace, June 21, 1863, Wallace Collection (Indiana Historical
                            Society Library, Indianapolis).
                  
                     9 Theo Marsh and others to Wright, September 10, 1862, Wallace
                            Collection (Indiana Division, Indiana State Library). Some nonetheless continued to conduct
                            business behind closed doors. Cincinnati Enquirer, September 13, 1862;
                            Cincinnati Commercial, September 22, 1862. Covington's mayor
                            requested that business be resumed for just a few hours a day. C. A. Preston to [Colonel J.
                            V.] Guthrie, September 13, 1862, Wallace Collection (Indiana State Library).
                  
                     10 Cincinnati Enquirer, September 5, 10, 1862;
                            Cincinnati Gazette, September 5, 1862; Cincinnati Commercial, September 5, 1862; Citizens to General [A. J.] Smith, September 16, 1862,
                            Wallace Collection (Indiana State Library).
                  
                     11 G. M. Finch to Malcolm McDowell, September 4, 1862, Wallace
                            Collection (Indiana State Library).
                  
                     12 Wallace to N. H. McLean, September 5, 1862, Wallace Letter and
                            Order Book (Indiana Commission on Public Records); McLean to Wallace, September 5, 6, 1862,
                                Official Records, ser. I, vol. XVI, part II, pp. 487-88, 491-92;
                            Wright General Order Number 11, September 6, 1862, Cincinnati Commercial
                            and Cincinnati Gazette, September 8, 1862.
               
                    
                    
                  LEW WALLACE, CIRCA 1862
                  Courtesy of Photograph Collection, Indiana Division, Indiana State Library, Indianapolis
               
                    
                    
                  LEW WALLACE'S DIAGRAM OF
                            THE POSITION OF THE SECOND BRIGADE, SHOWING LOCATION OF VARIOUS REGIMENTS
                  
                  Courtesy of Lew Wallace Collection, Manuscript Section, Indiana Division, Indiana State
                            Library, Indianapolis
               
                     approach the most fair, Wallace also believed that the drastic
                    steps were necessary to ensure the labor needed to defend the cities. He agreed to Wright's
                    request to retain the command but felt vindicated when Wright called for him a few days later and
                    admitted that he had been correct. As Wallace had predicted, without compulsion the supply of
                    willing workers fell dangerously. The order suspending business was restored the next morning.
                    Wallace nevertheless relinquished command over Cincinnati and transferred his headquarters across
                    the river to Covington.13
            
            While doing his best to avoid the shoals of civilian politics, Wallace busied himself with the
                    military defenses of the city. To command his vast irregular force he amassed a volunteer staff of
                    about one hundred fifty (which he thought rivaled that of General John C. Fremont) and issued a
                    total of thirty-five general orders and some one hundred forty special orders. He saw to it that a
                    pontoon bridge was thrown across the 
                        Ohio
                     in record time and that each of the headquarters units along the line were linked by
                    telegraph. Amid the confusion, Wallace found able subordinates to organize the fatigue forces, the
                    volunteer troops, and the river flotilla. But Wallace perhaps proved overzealous in briefly
                    suppressing the Cincinnati Times, evidently because it printed sensitive military
                        information.l4
            
            All the while Wallace supervised the building of the defense works and the disposition of the
                    fighting units. He urgently issued orders to his subordinate commanders to watch the roads and
                    byroads, to keep their men alert, and to be prepared for rebel tricks.15
                    Wallace, of course, had no way of knowing that Kirby Smith had reversed his earlier orders and
                    subsequently advised Heth only to feint an attack on the Yankee metropolis. Still, Heth was eager to
                    attack Cincinnati and may have been dissuaded from stretching his orders by Wallace's
                    vigorous efforts to defend the city.16
            
            Although Wallace welcomed the "motley but heroic mob" of volunteers from the
                    countryside, called "Squirrel Hunters" by their commander Major Malcolm McDowell,
                    he remained suspicious of 
                  
                     13 Cincinnati Gazette, September 9, 10, 1862;
                            Cincinnati Commercial, September 10, 1862; Wallace to Henderson, June 22,
                            1863, Wallace Collection (Indiana State Library).
                  
                     14 Cincinnati Commercial, September 5, 1862;
                            Cincinnati Enquirer, September 5, 6, 1862; Cincinnati Gazette, September 5, 6, 1862. The Commercial explained that the
                                Times was not disloyal but "exceedingly reckless."
                            The Times resumed publication the next day.
                  
                     15 Cincinnati Gazette, September 9, 1862; Wallace to
                            Generals [H. M.] Judah and [A. J.] Smith, September 4, 5, 1862, Wallace Letter and Order
                            Book (Indiana Commission on Public Records); Guthrie to Wallace, September 5, 1862, ibid.; John A. Duble to Wallace, September 6, 1862, ibid.
                  
                  
                     16 A. J. Smith to Samuel Cooper, September 6, 1862, Official Records, ser. I, vol. XVI, part I, pp. 933-35; James L. Morrison, Jr.,
                                The Memoirs of Henry Heth (West-port, Conn., 1974), 165-66.
               
                    
                    
                  Reproduced from Harper's Weekly, October 4, 1862
                their value and accepted their use only under the emergency circumstances.17 In this case Wallace shared the view of regular army officers who often questioned the
                    military abilities of civilians, although he always resented their opinion of "political
                    generals" such as himself. (Union Chief of Staff Henry W. Halleck claimed that giving
                    important commands to men like Wallace was akin to "murder.")l8 Wallace informed Cincinnati's mayor that "there must be a distinction
                    made between the working parties and those enrolled for duty in the field" in order to
                    "promote harmony" and prevent clashes between military and civilian authorities.
                    Thus Wallace's famous order proclaiming martial law specified that the guiding principle
                    during the siege would be "citizens for the labor, soldiers for the battle."l9 Forced to depend on the temporary services of citizen recruits, Wallace
                    nonetheless took care to place his few veteran units at strategic spots along his defensive line.
            
               
                  17 Wallace to Henderson, June 22, 1863, Wallace Collection (Indiana State
                        Library).
               
                  18 Henry W. Halleck to W. T. Sherman, April 29, 1864, Official Records, ser. I, vol. XXXIV, part III, pp. 332-33; James M. McPherson, Ordeal by Fire: The Civil War and Reconstruction (New York, 1982), 172.
               
                  19 Wallace to Mayor George Hatch, September 3, 5, 1862, Wallace Letter and
                        Order Book (Indiana Commission on Public Records); Wallace, Autobiography,
                        607.
            
            
            Wallace's plans for the defense were sound. Although he had reason to believe the untrained
                    militia would perform well behind fortifications, he recognized the limitations of his volunteer
                    forces. Indeed, his commanders constantly complained about the disorder-liness of the celebrated
                    Squirrel Hunters.20 Should Heth's veterans attack, Wallace feared a
                    panic that would rival the "passage of the Beresina by the French retreating from
                        Russia."21 Thus Wallace relied instead on the regular units for
                    front line duty and used the burgeoning volunteer forces as a ploy to discourage the Confederates
                    from attacking his well-manned trenches. Like Confederate commander John B. Magruder on the
                    Peninsula, Wallace defended Cincinnati successfully by imaginatively bolstering his sometimes
                    suspect military skills.
            The defense of the Ohio river cities did have its shadowy side, including the
                    use of spies and a degree of political repression. Wallace appointed an officer to arrange a system
                    of secret service for the area and directed that local citizens be recruited to provide intelligence
                    services. Once again the excitable commander was caught up in the drama of the affair, sending
                    Wright a cryptic message: "Is Col. Simpson in the City. Time is precious, what he does
                    should be done right away."22 At the same time persons suspected of
                    secessionist loyalties were detained for the duration of the siege; those crossing the lines were
                    questioned and forced to take an oath of loyalty. Later Union forces took possession of
                    Freeman's Hall in Covington to confine political prisoners. Still, Wallace took care that
                    the accused were confronted by their accusers and that they had an "impartial
                        hearing."23
            
            The haphazard defense of the cities produced some unusually trying circumstances. The self-made
                    officers proved especially troublesome; Wallace was not the only ambitious young man eager to use
                    the siege to advance his career. Wallace was eventually forced to order merchants dealing in
                    "military trappings" to sell only to commissioned officers. Later he complained
                    that "one half the officers of this command on some pretence or other are in
                    Cincinnati." As a result he decreed that officers be required to show their passes 
                  
                     20 A. J. Smith to Wright, September 19, 1862, Wallace Letter and Order
                            Book (Indiana Commission on Public Records); Judah to Smith, September 19, 1862, ibid.
                  
                  
                     21 Wallace, Autobiography, 623.
                  
                     22 Special Order Number 48, September 6, 1862, Wallace Letter and
                            Order Book (Indiana Commission on Public Records); A. E. Jones to Wallace, September, 1862,
                                ibid.; Wallace to Wright, September 7, 1862, ibid.
                            Evidently Wallace was counting on Colonel Simpson to provide intelligence essential for the
                            defense of the cities. Wallace also refers to the use of spies on both sides in his Autobiography, 621-22, 627.
                  
                     23 Special Orders Numbers 34, 74, 75, Wallace Letter and Order Book
                            (Indiana Commission on Public Records); Wallace to Colonel Sipes, September 15, 1862, ibid.; A. J. Smith to Sipes, September 24, 1862, ibid.;
                            Cincinnati Enquirer, September 10, 1862. See also the material in the
                            Wallace Collection (Indiana State Library).
               
                     and advised that "a good place to stop them could be
                    at the ferry and bridge." Men in the ranks posed their own problems; the Tenth Kentucky
                    Cavalry was reported "almost mutinous" because their pay was in arrears.24
            
            One of the more frustrating problems created by the siege was supplying the troops across the river.
                    Although the influx of volunteers was inspiring, with it came a shortage of arms, ammunition, and
                    other equipment needed to outfit the troops properly.25 When ammunition was
                    obtained (primarily from Indianapolis), distributing it to the hastily gathered troops with their
                    motley array of firearms proved a monumental challenge.26 In the end, however,
                    adequate food and supplies were secured, largely through the cooperation of the civilian
                    authorities.
            Less easily solved was the lack of water for the men building the trenches in the September heat.
                    Many units lacked canteens, tin cups, buckets, and carts to hold water. It became especially
                    difficult to carry water from the river to the high embankments once the cisterns of Covington went
                    empty. Citizens' horses were impressed to carry water; later a steam engine provided by the
                    city of Cincinnati was used to force water into the Covington water system.27
            
            A rebel invasion of Union territory promised serious political consequences. Although Wallace was a
                    Democrat, he advocated a vigorous prosecution of the war and recognized that the war would destroy
                    slavery. In July the Democratic general had told a Cincinnati war meeting that only a
                    "terrible, earnest war" could end the rebellion.28 At the same
                    time, Wallace quickly realized that political benefits might flow from the enemy threat to federal
                    homes. In response to a resolution of thanks passed by the 
                        Ohio
                     legislature, Wallace insisted the war was being fought neither for black freedom nor to
                    support Republican President Abraham Lincoln, but to save free government.29
            
            
               
                  24 Wallace to McLean, September 16, 17, 1862, Wallace Letter and Order
                        Book (Indiana Commission on Public Records); Special Order Number 15, September 4, 1862, ibid.
               
               
                  25 The Wallace Collection (Indiana State Library) contains numerous
                        complaints about the shortage of supplies. See, for example, Joseph Wolf to McDowell, September
                        3, 1862.
               
                  26 Wallace to Henderson, June 22, 1863, ibid.
               
               
                  27 R. Stanhope to Wallace, September 10, 1862, ibid.;
                        Guthrie to Wallace, September 5, 17, 1862, Wallace Letter and Order Book (Indiana Commission on
                        Public Records); General Order Number 31, September 17, 1862, ibid.
               
               
                  28 Cincinnati Commercial, July 31, 1862; Cincinnati Gazette, August 1, 1862; Cincinnati Enquirer, August 21,
                        1862; Wallace to Douglas Democrats, August 16, 1861, Wallace Collection (Indiana Historical
                        Society): Wallace to wife, December 22, 1861, ibid.
               
               
                  29 Ironically. including. Wallace. the men most responsible for the
                        defense of Cincinnati, Mayor George Hatch and governors David Tod of 
                            Ohio
                         and Oliver P. Morton of Indiana, either had been or were still Democrats. 
                            Ohio
                         Legislature to Wallace, March 4, 1863, Wallace Collection (Indiana Historical
                        Society); Wallace to Tod, March 10, 1863, ibid.
               
            
            
            Despite this politically expedient position, Wallace did risk popular displeasure by advocating the
                    use of blacks for the Union war effort. Indeed, in his brief campaign in Kentucky prior to the
                    battle at Richmond he had already started to use black 1aborers.30 The
                    Cincinnati defense allowed him to put this proposal into operation under conditions that would mute
                    criticism. Evidently familiar with Cincinnati's troubled past of racial violence, Wallace
                    inquired as the siege began whether local citizens would permit blacks to work in the trenches. Told
                    there was "considerable objection" to the idea, Wallace decided to wait and see if
                    blacks would be needed. The rapid advance of the enemy soon dictated more drastic action, however,
                    and Wallace ordered Mayor Hatch to gather all able-bodied black men as well as white.31
            
            Despite the fact that they were to help defend the city, Cincinnati blacks were subjected to brutal
                    humiliation as police and white citizens herded several hundred black men at bayonet point to a
                    "pen" and then forced them to cross the river to work on Union trenches. Outraged
                    by this treatment, Judge William M. Dickson, a sympathetic white citizen, volunteered to command the
                    "Black Brigade." Wallace readily consented, figuring Dickson a "good man
                    for the business."32
            
            As a valuable part of the fatigue forces, blacks nonetheless had to endure further hardships,
                    including the disdain and hostility of white workers and engineers. Not surprisingly, tools and
                    water for the black laborers were in short supply, but Judge Dickson admitted that the main
                    difficulty was "getting work at all assigned for us to do." Even
                    when work was assigned, blacks had to be protected from those who would seize them for use as
                    regimental cooks or for other menial tasks. Blacks leaving the trenches to return to Cincinnati
                    carried passes to protect them from arrest.33
            
            Although Wallace took credit for employing blacks in the war effort, he refused any responsibility
                    for the harsh way they were treated. The Hoosier general denied directing Mayor Hatch to collect the
                    blacks in pens and claimed he "neither knew it nor heard of it," insisting these
                    had been the orders of Hatch and his police. But as commander of the city Wallace was at least in
                    part responsible 
                  
                     30 Cincinnati Commercial, July 31, 1862; Cincinnati
                                Gazette, August 1, 27, 1862.
                  
                     31 Wallace to Henderson, June 22, 1863, Wallace Collection (Indiana
                            State Library).
                  
                     32 Cincinnati Enquirer, September 5, 1862;
                            Cincinnati Commercial, September 22, 1862; Wallace to Henderson, June 22,
                            1863, Wallace Collection (Indiana State Library). See also Peter H. Clark, The
                                Black Brigade of Cincinnati (Cincinnati, 1864); and Edgar A. Toppin,
                            "Humbly They Served: The Black Brigade in the Defense of Cincinnati," Journal of Negro History, XLVIII (April, 1963), 75-97.
                  
                     33 W. M. Dickson to Colonel A. Perry, September 18, 1862, Wallace
                            Collection (Indiana State Library); Wallace to Hatch, September 5, 1862, Wallace Letter and
                            Order Book (Indiana Commission on Public Records).
               
                     for the brutal treatment blacks suffered under his orders.
                    Wright finally directed the police to arrest blacks "only for crimes or disorderly
                    conduct," and Wallace eventually detailed guards to protect blacks from further abuse.34
            
            Most of Cincinnati, including Wallace, expected a Confederate attack by the morning of September 11.
                    The troops along the line were ordered to sleep on their arms and to be formed up for battle by
                    three in the morning.35 Despite his brave front and postwar boasts to Heth,
                    Wallace feared a defeat and made plans for this contingency. If the rebels should breach his lines,
                    he intended to "contest every street and house in Covington" while his troops
                    crossed the pontoon bridge to Cincinnati. The river steamers were warned to be in position to
                    support such a movement. Wallace admitted this plan would have allowed the rebels to shell the city
                    of Cincinnati, but he was "solemnly resolved to see it burnt, rather than sacked."
                    Ready to wage total war if necessary, Wallace was as relieved as anyone when reports trickled in of
                    a Confederate withdrawal. Still taking no chances, Wallace warned his commanders to stay alert
                    "precisely as if the enemy were directly in our front."36
            
            Like McClellan after Antietam and Meade after Gettysburg, Wallace was criticized for not pursuing the
                    rebels as they withdrew from Cincinnati. Once again forced to defend his actions, Wallace complained
                    that his authority only included the defense of the Ohio river cities; by
                    implication he claimed the failure was on Wright's head.37 In fact, the
                    reason the federals did not follow was more complex. After hurriedly gathering men and supplies for
                    a static defense of the cities, Union forces lacked the essential equipment and transport needed to
                    follow the rebels. Wallace refused to give up; he proposed seizing all the drays and express wagons
                    in the city to pursue Heth with twenty thousand men. Wright still did not allow a pursuit and
                    countermanded Wallace's order for a reconnaissance in force of the retreating enemy
                        forces.38 If not for 
                  
                     34 Wallace to Henderson, June 22, 1863, Wallace Collection (Indiana
                            State Library); McLean to Hatch, September 10, 1862, Official Records,
                            ser. I, vol. XVI, part II, pp. 504-505.
                  
                     35 Wallace General Order Number 15, September 10, 1862, Wallace Letter
                            and Order Book (Indiana Commission on Public Records). See also Wallace's numerous
                            orders dated September 10, 1862, ibid.; Cincinnati Enquirer, September 11, 12, 1862; Cincinnati Gazette, September 11,
                            1862.
                  
                     36 Wallace to Henderson, June 22, 1863, Wallace Collection (Indiana
                            State Library); Wallace General Order 19, September 13, 1862; Wallace to A. J. Smith,
                            September 12, 1862, Wallace Letter and Order Book (Indiana Commission on Public Records).
                  
                     37 Wallace to Wright, September 12, 1862, Wallace Collection (Indiana
                            State Library), Wallace to Henderson, June 22, 1863, ibid.
                  
                  
                     38 Wallace to Wright, September 12, 1862, Official
                                Records, ser. I, vol. XVI, part II, p. 511; Wallace to Henderson, June 22, 1863,
                            Wallace Collection (Indiana State Library). Wallace checked on Wright's claim of
                            lack of transport. Wallace to A. J. Smith, September 14, 1862, Wallace Letter and Order Book
                            (Indiana Commission on Public Records).
               
                     Wright's cautious hand during and after the siege,
                    Wallace would have been much more aggressive and might have even left his trenches to attack the
                    rebels.
            For a short time Wallace basked in the national spotlight for his prominent role in defending
                    Cincinnati. The eastern press lauded his "vigorous proclamations," given credit
                    for saving the strategic western city.39 Throughout the siege Wallace enjoyed
                    the warm support of the Cincinnati press, which had urged the citizenry to cooperate in his efforts.
                    The Democratic Enquirer was most enthusiastic, describing Wallace as a
                    "gallant and go ahead young General." Promoting its Democratic hero, the Enquirer claimed Wallace had brought "order out of chaos" and
                    was "exactly the man for the place." The Republican Gazette too
                    praised Wallace for the "vigor which is characteristic of him," while the Commercial reported that the citizens were reassured by the general who was
                    "ever alert, faithful and resolute."40
            
            Once the crisis passed, Wallace proudly marched at the head of several regiments across the pontoon
                    bridge to Cincinnati to be greeted by "cheers of welcome and the bright smiles of fair
                    ladies." Later the Sanitary Commission invited Wallace to speak at the Fifth Street Market
                    where he boasted that the rebels spied his trenches and "stole away in the night."
                    The ebullient major general claimed that with enough armed men he could push the rebels into the
                    Gulf of Mexico. Wallace then bid thanks to the Squirrel Hunters, calling them the "second
                    edition" of the men who fought at Bunker Hill or New Orleans.41
            
            According to prominent journalist and 
                        Ohio
                     historian White-law Reid, a wartime supporter of Wallace, Wallace's
                    proclamation of martial law was the "boldest and most vigorous" order of the war
                    along the border.42 Although Wallace's inspired command
                    "practically saved Cincinnati," it did not save the shelved major general. Despite
                    his leading role in defending a strategic area from capture, Wallace saw his hopes for vindication
                    go unfulfilled. In fact, his next assignment was to organize paroled prisoners for use against the
                    Minnesota Sioux.43 Later he hoped to win redemption 
                  
                     39 New York Times, September 3, 1862; Harper's Weekly, September 20, October 4, 1862.
                  
                     40 Cincinnati Enquirer, September 2, 3, 6, 8, 14,
                            1862; Cincinnati Gazette, September 2, 1862; Cincinnati Commercial, September 15, 1862.
                  
                     41 Cincinnati Gazette, September 15, 17, 1862.
                  
                     42 Whitelaw Reid, Ohio in the War: Her Statesmen, Her
                                Generals, and Soldiers, Vol. I, History of the State during the
                            War (Cincinnati, 1868), 90-91. After Wallace's martial law decree, thirteen
                            citizens from Madison, Indiana, petitioned Governor Morton to place someone in command to
                            declare martial law in their city, "that all our means of defence may be made
                            available." D. C. Branham to Morton, September 3, 1862, Morton Collection.
                  
                     43 Cincinnati Gazette, September 18, 1862; Wright to
                            G[reen] C[lay] Smith, September 19, 1862, Wallace Letter and Order Book (Indiana Commission
                            on Public Records).
               
                     by his successful defense of Washington, D.C., at Monocacy in
                    July, 1864. While his delaying action may have protected the capital from Jubal Early's
                    rebel veterans, Wallace's final battlefield service went largely unrecognized. The stigma
                    of Shiloh was not so easily erased.
            Wallace's military achievements have remained mostly unappreciated. He had the distinct
                    misfortune of displeasing the two men who ultimately rose to command all Union forces, Henry W.
                    Halleck and Ulysses S. Grant, men who had suffered their own embarrassment over Shiloh. As the war
                    progressed, "political generals" such as Wallace were less likely to be trusted
                    with important commands. Ironically, Wallace's rapid advance in 'rank early in the
                    war later hindered his chances of gaining reinstatement. Grant admitted he might have been able to
                    accept Wallace if not for his high rank.44
            
            Wallace's Civil War career ended with service on the military tribunals investigating the
                    assassination of Abraham Lincoln and the "war crimes" charged against the
                    Confederate commandant of Andersonville prison, Henry Wirz. Despite their importance, these
                    assignments were not the sort of duty sought by Lew Wallace, soldier and romantic. Even the smashing
                    success of Ben-Hur, published in 1880, could never quite compensate for the loss
                    of military honor and recognition Wallace always thought was his by service and by right.
            
               
                  44 Grant to H. W. Halleck, December 14, 1862, Official
                            Records, ser. I, vol. LII, part I, pp. 313-14; Herman Hattaway and Archer Jones, How the North Won: A Military History of the Civil War (Urbana, Ill., 1983),
                        309.
            
         
         
         
            A Hoosier Country Doctor: Dr. Harry K. Engleman's Medical Ledger, 1911–1917
            
                    Gerald O. Haffner
                    *
                
            Nestled near the western border of 
                        Floyd County
                     and settled on a major westward route across the hills of southern Indiana, Georgetown,
                    like many Hoosier villages, can boast about its sons and daughters. Among them were R. Carlyle
                    Buley, an Indiana University professor who won the Pulitzer Prize in history for his definitive The Old Northwest: Pioneer Period, 1815-1840 (1950), and Sherman Minton, the
                    well-known jurist who served on the 
                        United States
                     Supreme Court from 1949 to 1956.
            Perhaps as well known to the people of Georgetown and the surrounding countryside was Dr. Harry K.
                    Engleman. After graduating from what became the University of Louisville School of Medicine, he
                    began his practice in Georgetown in 1911 and subsequently devoted his life to caring for its people.
                    From his first day on the job, Engleman kept a record of his patients, marking down their names,
                    their maladies, and his charges and collections. The pages of the only surviving ledger, 1911-1917,
                    offer insight into the life of a country doctor and a glimpse into the nature of medical problems
                    during the second decade of the twentieth century.1
            
            Engleman was born July 22, 1879, in Byrneville, a tiny village in the northeast section of 
                        Harrison County
                    . His parents, Jefferson and Emma Engleman, bought a farm when Engleman was six years
                        
                  
                     * Gerald O. Haffner is professor emeritus of history,
                            Indiana University Southeast, New Albany, Indiana. Photographs accompanying this article
                            were reproduced by Vaughn E. Winslow and the Indiana University Southeast Audio-visual
                            Department.
                  
                     1 Although Harry K. Engleman apparently kept a ledger throughout his
                            practice, only the ledger running from October 12, 1911, through February 6, 1917, remains.
                            The ledger is generally very readable, although a few of Engleman's abbreviations
                            are difficult to decipher. The ledger, flawed only by lack of diagnoses and the specific
                            medications given, is one of the precious possessions of Engleman's widow, Gayle
                            Arganbright Engleman. The author thanks her for her kindness in permitting its use in this
                            article and for the information she provided about their life together.
                  INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, LXXXV (June, 1989). ©1989, Trustees of Indiana
                            University. 
               
                    
                    
                  HARRY K. ENGLEMAN AND OLD PRINCE
                  
                  Courtesy of Mrs. Harry K. Engleman
                old. The family of six sons and one daughter lived in a log cabin for about two years
                    before they were able to construct better housing.2
            
            The rigors of rural life for Engleman as a child included walking across the county line to go to
                    school in Galena, in 
                        Floyd County
                    , and at age thirteen working as a farmhand for twenty cents a day. After attending
                    grade school and normal school, Engleman was unable to enroll in medical school because of lack of
                    funds. He then turned to teaching in local one-room public schools. For his salary of about
                    thirty-six dollars per month, he was expected to teach as many as fifty pupils in all eight grades.
                    After three years of seeing his savings for medical school grow at a snail's pace, Engleman
                    obtained a position with American Express, starting as an assistant cashier for sixty, and then
                    sixty-six, dollars per month. He was able to save between forty and forty-five dollars each month
                    toward his goal.3
            
            
               
                  2 Cliff Robinson, "Last ‘Country Doctor’ in
                        Floyd Still Going Strong After 48 Years," Louisville Courier-Journal,
                        June 13, 1959; Prentice Seacat, "Some Facts from the Life of Dr. H. K.
                        Engleman," unpublished manuscript, c. 1958.
               
                  3 One of Engleman's grade school students was a bright but
                        mischievous lad, always with muddy shoes, who had to be challenged with more difficult exercises
                        to keep him busy. The student was young Sherman "Shay" Minton, future Supreme
                        Court justice. Years later, Minton dropped by Engleman's waiting room and asked if he
                        could enter the doctor's inner office. Engleman replied, "come in, if your
                        shoes are clean." Robinson, "Last Country Doctor"; Seacat,
                        "Some Facts"; Gayle Arganbright Engleman, interview with author, summer,
                    1987.
            
            
            In 1907, at age twenty-eight, with $1,500 in savings, Engle-man entered medical school in
                    Louisville, Kentucky. As a freshman he demonstrated his lifelong scholastic inquisitiveness by
                    winning the Faculty Gold Medal for the highest grades in his class. He graduated in 1911 after
                    completing the four required years of training and started his practice in Georgetown, where his
                    parents had moved. The New Albany Weekly Tribune noted his arrival:
                    "Harry K. Engleman, of Georgetown, has been granted a license to practice medicine. He is a
                    son of Former County Commissioner Jefferson Engleman and is a graduate of the medical department of
                    the Louisville University."4
            
            It took time for Engleman to build a thriving practice in Georgetown. The four or five hundred people
                    in the immediate area were already served by four doctors when the newcomer opened his office. In
                    addition, there were nine other country doctors within a ten-mile radius of Georgetown. The
                    countryside surrounding the village, however, was anyone's territory, provided the doctor
                    had the means to reach his rural patients.
            Engleman's transportation early in his practice was a horse, "Old Prince,"
                    who was either saddled or harnessed for a road cart and buggy, depending on the condition of the
                    weather. On one occasion the mud was so deep that Prince mired down and could not take another step
                    until help was obtained. When Engleman finally "reached the patient's home he was
                    told he would never be called again as it took him too long to get there." After six years
                    of using a horse as his mode of transportation, the doctor changed with the times and in 1917 bought
                    a new Ford car, remaining a "Ford man" for the rest of his days.5
            
            A country doctor worked hard. He was on call twenty-four hours a day and seven days a week.
                    Infectious diseases in the pre-anti-biotic era made the days and nights even more strenuous and
                    hectic. Doctors did not earn much, even when paid in cash or in farm produce such as spareribs,
                    sausage, or sacks of flour. All too often, medical bills were never paid. The first page of
                    Engleman's ledger, begun in 1911, indicates he had billed patients for $27.05
                    but had collected only $8.25.6
            
            During the early years of his practice, Engleman generally charged between fifteen and thirty-five
                    cents for an office visit and fifty cents for a house call. The fees naturally varied according to
                    the severity of the case or the amount of work involved in the 
                  
                     4 Robinson, "Last Country Doctor"; Seacat,
                            "Some Facts"; New Albany Weekly Tribune, October 20,
                            1911.
                  
                     5 Seacat, "Some Facts"; Robinson, "Last
                            Country Doctor"; interview with Gayle Arganbright Engleman.
                  
                     6 Robinson, "Last Country Doctor"; Seacat,
                            "Some Facts"; Dr. Harry K. Engleman, medical ledger, 1911-1917, October
                            12, 1911.
               
                     treatment. Since Engleman dispensed his drugs and medicines
                    from the office or from his medical bag if he were on the road, the final charges were conditioned
                    by the amount of medication given. Engleman apparently found counting pills time consuming and
                    repugnant and thus charged a certain amount for one handful of pills in a small envelope and a
                    higher price for two. Later his wife convinced him that he had been losing money, especially after
                    costly antibiotics were developed. Engleman apparently was more interested in his practice than in
                    making money and collecting fees.7
            
            The practice Engleman found so challenging was similar to that of many other country doctors during
                    the first decade of the twentieth century. As a general practitioner, Engleman had to be a
                    jack-of-all-trades: he had to make the right diagnoses, administer the proper medications, dress
                    wounds, set broken bones, deliver babies, consult with other doctors, give anesthetics and
                    inoculations, and be prepared to meet any kind of medical emergency.
            Engleman and other rural Indiana physicians were better prepared to treat their patients than their
                    pioneer predecessors had been because of the great changes in the structure and practice of medicine
                    during the nineteenth century. National and state professional organizations such as the American
                    Medical Association and the Indiana State Medical Association promoted high standards and provided a
                    certain amount of influence over the qualifications and education of physicians. Great strides in
                    science made medical practice for the early twentieth century physician widely different from that
                    of pioneer doctors. The work of Louis Pasteur, Robert Koch, and many others prepared physicians by
                    1900 to understand and treat a score of diseases that stumped nineteenth century physicians.
                    Anthrax, tuberculosis, diphtheria, pneumonia, gonorrhea, cholera, malaria, leprosy, tetanus,
                    dysentery, and bubonic plague were no longer so mysterious.8 New scientific
                    discoveries helped 
                  
                     7 Robinson, "Last Country Doctor"; Seacat,
                            "Some Facts."
                  
                     8 The first meeting of what would become the American Medical
                            Association was held in 1846. The AMA's program sought to establish higher
                            standards for medical degrees and to eliminate "irregular practitioners."
                            The organization, however, had limited success in achieving its objectives until the turn of
                            the century. Paul Starr, The Social Transformation of American Medicine
                            (New York, 1982), 90-91. For a discussion of late-nineteenth century diseases and medicine,
                            see Harry F. Dowling, Fighting Infection (Cambridge, Mass., 1977); and
                            John S. Haller, Jr., American Medicine in Transition, 1814-1910 (Urbana,
                            Ill., 1981). For an overview of the development of medical care in Indiana in the nineteenth
                            century, see Madge E. Pickard and R. Carlyle Buley, The Midwest Pioneer: His
                                Ills, Cures, and Doctors (Crawfordsville, Ind., 1945); Jacob Piatt Dunn, Indiana and Indianans: A History of Aboriginal and Territorial Indiana and the
                                Century of Statehood (5 vols., Chicago, 1919), IV, 797-835; Gerald O. Haffner,
                            "Some Aspects of Medicine in Pioneer Southern Indiana," Filson Club History Quarterly, LI (April, 1977), 167-89. See Clifton J. Phillips,
                                Indiana in Transition: The Emergence of an Industrial Commonwealth,
                                1880-1920 (Indianapolis, 1968), 469-81, for a discussion of public health in
                            Indiana in this period.
               
                     dispel older beliefs that diseases were caused by poisonous
                    miasmas floating in the atmosphere, and new diagnostic techniques caused turn-of-the-century doctors
                    to put more emphasis on individual health examinations to prevent disease and preserve health.9
            
            Engleman, then, began his practice in a period of great transition. His rural and urban colleagues
                    straddled the practices and beliefs of the nineteenth and twentieth century. Engleman's
                    ledger shows that he used techniques which were locally accepted practices but were not the latest
                    scientific procedures. One of his most important responsibilities was the enforcement of quarantines
                    for certain highly contagious diseases. Once he had lifted the quarantine, Engleman fumigated the
                    premises by sealing the buildings and burning formaldehyde candles, as he did at the No. 5 School in
                    Georgetown Township. By 1911, however, when the ledger begins, physicians in large urban, but not
                    rural, areas had stopped the practice of fumigation. Other developments in medical science affected
                    Engleman's practice greatly; as he began his career, the Georgetown physician became
                    acquainted with large numbers of new drugs, which opened up new avenues of treatment but also
                    increased the cost of medicine.10
            
            Although the fees Engleman charged and marked in his ledger may seem incredibly low when compared to
                    medical costs today, they were not out of line with the cost of food, furniture, and other
                    necessities at the time. During the week that Engleman began his practice in Georgetown, the New
                    Albany Weekly Tribune advertised butter for eighteen cents a pound, turkey for
                    eight to twelve cents a pound, spring chickens for nine to eleven cents per pound, and geese for six
                    cents a pound. Eggs were twenty cents a dozen. A year's subscription to the Weekly Tribune was $1.00 per year, paid in advance. New kitchen cabinets, at
                    $30.00, could be purchased with $1.00 down and $1.00 per week. A
                    three-piece parlor set, with settee, rocker, and chair cost $18.75 on sale, reduced from
                    $30.00. The market quotation from Indianapolis listed wheat at ninety-three cents, corn
                    at seventy-two cents, and oats at forty-eight cents per bushel.11
            
            With the above quoted figures in mind, Engleman's fees do not appear to be so unusual for
                    his time. For twenty-five cents he swabbed a throat or extracted a tooth, lanced a carbuncle,
                    treated a toe, or cauterized a baby's foot. Lancing a tonsil, removing a foreign object
                    from the eye, cauterizing a dog bite, or bandaging a leg, a thumb, a neck, or an ankle cost the
                    patient less than thirty-five cents. Higher charges were listed for more complicated procedures:
                        
                  
                     9 Starr, Social Transformation of American Medicine,
                            192.
                  
                     10
                            Ibid., 189-90; Engleman, ledger, February 10, 1914.
                  
                     11 New Albany Weekly Tribune, October 13,
                        1911.
               
                     opening an abscess or a nail puncture in a foot or removing an
                    ingrown toenail and medication, fifty cents; catheterizing a male, seventy-five cents; cutting glass
                    from a boy's foot, fifty cents; taping broken ribs, $1.00; extricating a crochet
                    hook, $1.00; treating a broken jaw, $1.50; eliminating a wart,
                    $1.00; dressing a gunshot wound to the leg, $2.00; reducing a fracture of arm
                    or clavicle, $5.00; and attending a man's wife who had aborted a fetus,
                        $7.00.12
            
            Engleman's medical ledger indicates he was in touch not only with local Hoosier physicians
                    but with those connected with the hospitals in Louisville as well. He may have used New
                    Albany's St. Edward Hospital, which had been built in 1902, but the ledger mentions only
                    St. Anthony, St. Joseph, and Deaconess hospitals in Louisville.13 Time after
                    time, Engleman noted trips across the Ohio River with patients to get x-rays, to check patients into
                    a hospital, to attend operations and visit patients, and to bring patients home after treatments and
                    operations. Going to hospitals in Louisville with his patients was only natural since he graduated
                    from medical school there.14
            
            Engleman recorded his consultations with Indiana medical men in the ledger: "Went to
                    Crandall with Dr. [Elmer] Taylor to see Dr. Dave Buley." He took a Saturday and Sunday off
                    to visit Dr. Joe Byrne at Kurtz, Indiana, went to Crandall to see Dr. Guy D. Baker, visited Dr. L.
                    F. Glenn at Ramsey, and discussed medical problems with Dr. Ben Teaford of Georgetown. These
                    notations were just a few illustrations of the communications between Engleman and his colleagues in
                    the vicinity. These physicians also filled in for each other whenever necessary and assisted each
                    other when help was needed. Engleman gave anesthetic to Teaford's patient who had a painful
                    fistula and to Taylor's patient who had to be circumcised. At various times, a governmental
                    agency requested a physician's inquest. On May 22, 1913, Engleman wrote, "Went to
                    Crandall to help Dr. Baker hold a Lunacy Inquest." At a later date, he billed 
                        Harrison County
                     $4.00 for an inquest on a person to be sent to an "Epileptic
                        Home."15
            
            A country doctor did not have much idle time on his hands. It took many hours to keep the office
                    open. There were urinalyses to run; physical examinations to conduct for civil service, pension, and
                    insurance applicants; vaccinations for smallpox and antitoxins for typhoid and diphtheria; and
                    tuberculin injections to give. Once in 
                  
                     l2 Engleman, ledger, August 21, 1913, passim.
                  
                  
                     13 Betty Lou Amster, New Albany on the 
                                    Ohio
                                : Historical Review, 1813-1963 (New Albany, 1963), 87; Engleman,
                            ledger, July 21, September 21, 1913, and August 22, 1915.
                  
                     14 One item in the ledger states that Engleman administered
                            anesthetics for two doctors in New Albany, for which he charged $15.00. This may
                            have been done in the local hospital, but the record is unclear. Engleman, ledger, November
                            5, 1915.
                  
                     15 Engleman, ibid., June 26, 1914, passim.
                  
               
                     a while the tranquility of Georgetown was disturbed by quarrels
                    and fisticuffs. One lad's pugilistic ability did not measure up to his opponent's,
                    and he had to be carried into Engleman's office for examination and treatment as a result
                    of a titanic blow to the stomach.16
            
            With patients from Georgetown, Lanesville, Corydon Junction, Byrneville, Edwardsville, Crandall,
                    Bradford, and the surrounding countryside, as well as a few coming to his office from Scottsburg and
                    DePauw, Engleman depended on others to perform household tasks he had no time to do himself. He
                    often traded his services with others; he credited $2.25 toward a man's medical
                    bill in exchange for the man's work on his buggy. On December 22, 1913, he gave another
                    patient $1.00 credit for the installment of a "tel box," an indication
                    that the telephone had arrived in Georgetown.17
            
            The arrival of World War I in Europe eventually produced a price increase in the 
                        United States
                    .l8 This inflationary trend was slowly reflected in
                    Engleman's ledger. Hypodermics went up from fifty cents to $1.00 and then to
                    $1.50; a similar rise occurred in house visits, from fifty cents to $1.00 in
                    1914 and to $1.50 in late 1915. Office visits rose in a proportional manner to
                    $1.50 by the end of 1916. Drugs, antitoxins, and medical supplies all were affected by
                    the inflation.
            Times were rapidly changing. Developments such as the first automobile electric self-starter in 1911
                    meant there were no more broken arms from trying to crank the popping, back-firing engines. But
                    other accidental consequences of the gasoline age began to appear on Engleman's doorstep.
                    The doctor was called to an automobile wreck on May 9, 1915. The victim of the accident was
                    seriously injured, and the doctor stayed four nights by the patient's bedside. Through the
                    holiday, July the Fourth, Engleman maintained the vigil, but the patient succumbed at 8:45 p.m.
            As a physician, Engleman was all too familiar with death. He frequently logged in his ledger a somber
                    and painful phrase indicating that his patient had died. Once two patients died on the same day.
                    Engleman had known many of these men and women for years and had treated some from the first days of
                    this medical practice. His notations were brief; a patient "died at 5:45 a.m. of
                    apoplexy," and after an emergency call to a home, a girl "died in 1 hr. after
                        arriving."19
            
            He could not save all his patients, despite his efforts. Engleman worked long hours even on holidays.
                    On December 25, 1911, 
                  
                     16
                            Ibid., September 21, 1913.
                  
                     17
                            Ibid., July 21, 1913.
                  
                     18 William E. Leuchtenberg, The Perils of Prosperity,
                                1914-1932 (Chicago, 1958), 16-17.
                  
                     19 Engleman, ledger, March 28, October 12, 1915, August 8,
                        1916.
               
                    
                    
                  DR. AND MRS. ENGLEMAN ON FRONT PORCH IN GEORGETOWN
                  
                  Courtesy of Mrs. Harry K. Englernan
               
                     the first year of his practice, he had six patients in for
                    treatment; on Thanksgiving Day, 1916, the record shows that he saw fourteen. It was not an easy
                    life, but once in a while he slipped away from his busy schedule. He attended various medical
                    association meetings; a note for September 25, 1913, reads: "Went to West Baden to State
                    Medical Meeting Thursday and Friday. Arrived home Saturday morning." He was a member of the
                    state society, and the national and county societies. He also took time to attend medical lectures
                    in Louisville. One afternoon he saw a patient in a Kentucky hospital and then recrossed the 
                        Ohio
                     to New Albany to see the fireworks at the popular Glenwood Park on the bank of Silver
                    Creek before he returned up the Knobs to Georgetown.20
            
            Thus he sporadically managed a little time away from medical matters. His trips to Louisville to buy
                    a new suit of clothes and in 1915 to spend the Christmas holidays are instances listed in the
                    ledger. He also attended the "Corydon Fair," technically known as the 
                        Harrison County
                     Fair, which had been held annually since 1860. Engleman enjoyed the pastimes of
                    hunting, trapshooting, and euchre playing. Hunting, especially, found its way into his record. He
                    expressed his musical talent through the violin and trombone; he played both of them in the local
                    orchestra, which was in demand for public functions such as school commencements. He went to New
                    Albany for concerts whenever he found the time and circumstances favorable.21
            
            Small-town doctors who served a large rural area had schedules that did not leave much time for
                    personal affairs. Engleman was forty-three years old before he married in November, 1922. Gayle
                    Arganbright, whom he had treated since 1911 for head colds, sore throats, earaches, and the like,
                    was seventeen years younger than he was. Their marriage ceremony was simple. The "I
                    do's" had just been uttered when the groom received an urgent call from Bradford
                    to treat a seriously sick woman, so the couple was on their way; after ministering to the patient,
                    who had no money, the doctor and his bride accepted a rag rug for service rendered.22
            
            Gayle Arganbright Engleman learned from the first day of marriage what it was to be a
                    doctor's wife. She was a housewife in their home and a medical assistant, secretary, and
                    bookkeeper in the office. Evidently the doctor leaned on her heavily to manage his fiscal affairs.
                    Prior to his marriage he neglected sending bills to those patients who had not paid at the time of
                    treatment-he was too busy delivering babies (late in life he estimated he had delivered 
                  
                     20 Amster, New Albany on the 
                                    Ohio
                                , 82-83; Engleman, ledger, November 30, 1916.
                  
                     21 Engleman, ledger, April 10, 19, 1916; interview with Gayle
                            Arganbright Engleman; Seacat, "Some Facts."
                  
                     22 Interview with Gayle Arganbright Engleman.
               
                     abut one thousand) and tending to other aspects of doctoring.
                    The couple had no children of their own, but they took "different children into their
                    home" and helped them. A foster daughter is mentioned in a newspaper obituary. In addition
                    to membership in the medical societies, Engleman was a member of the United Brethren church, Masonic
                    Lodge, and the Louisville Rifle and Revolver Club. In 1942, at the age of sixty-three, he suffered a
                    "cerebral accident," or stroke, which resulted in paralysis of his arm. He
                    prescribed himself trapshooting to regain control. Eventually he was able to hold office hours and
                    to make house calls with his wife doing the chauffering.23
            
            During his days of good health and his post-stroke practice, Engleman saw changes in medicine and its
                    profession accelerate, in both therapeutics and structure, even faster than the advancements made in
                    the previous century. Drug research progressed remarkably. Alexander Fleming's discovery of
                    the "germ-killing power" of the mold penicillium led to the development in the
                    early 1940s of the first antibiotic. Other new, sophisticated drugs were found to combat high blood
                    pressure, diabetes, and other maladies. The structure of medicine and the delivery of medical
                    services changed also. Corporate clinics, company doctors, and health insurance altered the
                    environment of the private practitioner. Country doctors also witnessed the shift in 
                        United States
                     population from predominantly rural to urban communities. Many physicians followed
                    patients into the cities. And an increasing number of Engle-man's colleagues became
                    specialists. The small-town practitioner became a declining breed.24
            
            Ill health eventually forced Engleman to retire from active practice, but he tried to keep his office
                    door open as long as he could. He and his wife spent his last five winters in Tucson, Arizona. An
                    open house was held in his honor on his eighty-first birthday. The Indiana State Medical Society
                    presented him with a plaque, recognizing his fifty years of medical care for the people of southern
                    Indiana. He died at the age of eighty-three, on February 5, 1963, and he was buried in Wolfe
                    Cemetery, west of Georgetown in the midst of the hills and countryside he served.25
            
            This man from Georgetown labored for half a century as a country doctor. Harry K. Engleman probably
                    was not concerned about leaving any historical account when he logged his daily routine 
                  
                     23 Robinson, "Last Country Doctor"; Seacat,
                            "Some Facts."
                  
                     24 For a discussion of changes in medicine in the first half of the
                            twentieth century, see Starr, The Social Transformation of American
                            Medicine, 199-353; and George Rosen, The Structure of American Medical
                                Practice, 1875-1941, 1-116.
                  
                     25 New Albany Tribune, February 6, 1963; interview
                            with Gayle Arganbright Engleman; Louisville Times, February 6, 1963; and
                            Louisville Courier-Journal, February 6, 1963.
               
                     tine in his record books. Nevertheless, as a result of the
                    preservation of his first ledger covering the years 1911 through 1917, those who are interested in
                    the past are his beneficiaries, because in this document he revealed much about himself, his
                    colleagues, and the nature and practice of medicine in southern Indiana during the years immediately
                    preceding World War I.
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Monon: The Hoosier Line. By Gary W. Dolzall and Stephen F. Dolzall. (Glendale,
                    Calif.: Interurban Press, 1987. Pp., 206. Illustrations, map, figures, index. $39.95.)
            That the Monon Railroad has a special attraction for historians and dedicated rail fans alike would
                    be indicated by the fact that for the second time in less than a decade it is the subject for a
                    book-length study, complete with text and magnificent pictures. It is doubtful if there is another
                    railroad in this country so closely identified with a single state as is the Monon with the state of
                    Indiana. This is not all that surprising when one remembers that except for a twenty-mile stretch
                    over the Chicago and Western Indiana Railroad (which provided the entrance into Chicago's
                    Dearborn Station) and a similar nine-mile linkage over the tracks of the Kentucky and Indiana
                    Terminal (which included the bridge over the Ohio River) all of the Monon's modest mileage
                    was in Indiana. Perhaps only a Hoosier can fully understand and appreciate the special kind of love
                    affair which seemed to flourish between Indiana natives and the Monon Railroad, but all
                    "true believing railroad buffs" can surely enjoy the affair vicariously.
            One of the most interesting ways in which "the Hoosier Line" identified with its
                    region and endeared itself to its constituents was through the special attention it seems to have
                    paid to the Indiana colleges and universities which lay along its route. With its Chicago-Louisville
                    line serving the home communities of both Purdue University and Indiana University the railroad for
                    years fanned the lively flames of football rivalry between the two. Many will recall the special
                    trains with appropriately decorated locomotives and cars which operated on "football
                    Saturdays" as the "Boilermakers" and their Bloomington-based rivals
                    strove on the gridiron for the beloved traveling trophy, the "old oaken bucket."
                    In a similar fashion the Monon donated a beautifully polished locomotive bell to serve as a football
                    trophy for highly regarded Wabash College in Crawfordsville and DePauw University in Greencastle.
                    These were public relations activities at their very best.
            The authors, Gary W. Dolzall and Stephen F. Dolzall, make it very clear at the outset that theirs is
                    an adventure down memory lane. Chapter one, for example, is a sentimental journey into the
                    not-so-distant past as the reader is treated to a series of vignettes  depicting passenger and freight operations on the Monon as they were
                    "only yesterday." Drawn from the minds and the memories of the authors (as well as
                    from their cameras) these memories enable one to sit back ‘and savor the nostalgic aroma
                    of steam locomotive coal smoke especially when contrasted with the foul odors of diesel fuel.
            No effort is made to treat in depth the corporate history of the Chicago, Indianapolis and Louisville
                    Railway Company, the Mon-on's official title until the 1950s. Nevertheless, in bold strokes
                    the vicissitudes of the Monon's history are outlined in chronological fashion. The Monon
                    had its origin in 1847 in the fertile mind of James Brooks of New Albany, Indiana, and the opening
                    of rail service between New Albany and Salem in 1851 began the history of this unusual regional
                    carrier. During the century which followed (1847-1946) the railroad was able to realize its ultimate
                    destiny with lines from Chicago to Indianapolis and from 
                        Michigan City
                    , Indiana, to Louisville intersecting, of course, at Monon, Indiana.
            Although the corporate history of the Monon in the years prior to World War I1 could be described as
                    routine and inconspicuous, that was soon to change. American railroads emerged from the war with
                    spirits high in the knowledge of a tremendous transportation job well done. Onto the Monon scene in
                    1946 came John Barriger, who would leave his name and influence etched permanently on "the
                    Hoosier Line." The authors focus major attention upon what are called the Barriger years.
            Barriger had developed a reputation as a miracle worker with bankrupt and moribund railroads during
                    his service with the depression-era Reconstruction Finance Corporation, and for the next seven years
                    he would undertake to work his brand of magic on the Monon. In the short term he was remarkably
                    successful, but there were longterm, although perhaps less spectacular, gains as well. During what
                    must have been the golden age of Monon railroading, Barriger presided over the modernization of his
                    railroad. The rapid transition from steam to diesel power, the improvement and expansion of
                    passenger service, improved freight schedules and service, line relocations, structural
                    improvements, and efforts to catch up with deferred maintenance all followed in rapid succession. In
                    this fashion, Barriger did his best to encourage the Monon to live up to his well-publicized
                    philosophy of super-railroading.
            In the wake of Barriger's departure from the company in 1952, the Monon shared in the
                    successes and failures of American railroads generally throughout the 1950s and 1960s. Before he
                    left, Barriger had been advocating a merger, either with another nearby regional carrier or with a
                    larger, stronger partner as the key to long-term Monon prosperity. Unsuccessful in all of its feeble
                    overtures looking toward consolidation, the Indiana company fell victim to the merger mania of the
                    1970s. In 1971 all 573 miles of the 
                    
                  CHICAGO, ILLINOIS & LOUISVILLE ENGINE ABOUT TO COUPLE WITH HOOSIER LINE FLATCARS AT THE PERRY, MATTHEWS & BUSKIRK
                                QUARRY, NEW BEDFORD, MAY 23, 1900
                  Seaboard System Railroad Collection Courtesy of the author
               
                    
                    
                  THE HARRODSBURG DEPOT, CA. 1924,
                                NEAR THE NEW ALBANY AND SALEM AND THE INDIANA STONE RAILROADS
                  
                  Photograph by J. F. Bennett
                Monon fully merged into the Louisville and Nashville Railroad upon which the company had
                    been dependent for years. In the following year the L & N, in turn, became a wholly owned
                    subsidiary of the Seaboard Coast Line which used the unusual title of the Family Lines System. More
                    recently, the Seaboard System Railroad has been absorbed into an eastern transportation giant called
                    the CSX Corporation which includes the old Baltimore and 
                        Ohio
                    , Western Maryland, and Chesapeake and 
                        Ohio
                     railroads in addition to the Family Lines. Thus the Monon had become another of the
                    "fallen flags," as Trains magazine likes to refer to railroads
                    which have lost their identity.
            As far as the technical aspects of bookmaking are concerned, this volume sets a very high standard.
                    Quality paper, large easy-to-read print, and firm construction back up the superb illustrations and
                    the entertaining narrative. Most of the pictures are black and white and with a few exceptions, are
                    sharply reproduced and carefully identified. An eight-page section of colored photographs precedes
                    the useful locomotive roster (both steam and diesel), a post-World War I1 passenger equipment
                    roster, and an adequate index.
            ROBERT M. SUTTON is professor emeritus of history at the
                    University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign.
         
         
         
            
               Broadsides: Indiana, The Early Years, 1816–1850. Resource Guide and
                    Student Document Packets. (Indianapolis: Indiana Historical Bureau, 1987. Illustrations, figures,
                    maps, table, bibliographies. Paper, $6.50.)
            Critics of current teaching methods often express concern over the lack of emphases placed on state
                    and local history. Teachers who attempt to remedy the situation confront a major problem: in a time
                    of textbook publishing company consolidation, only texts and supplemental material with a national
                    market are published. As a result, teachers frequently are faced with the time-consuming task of
                    developing their own materials or ignoring components that could make the study of history more
                    personal to students. Indiana teachers have been fortunate to receive assistance from several
                    sources. One major resource is the Broadsides program, sponsored jointly by the Indiana Humanities
                    Council and the Indiana Historical Bureau.
            In addition to providing primary historical materials on Indiana during the period from 1816 to 1850,
                    the Broadsides program has three goals, "To introduce both teachers and students to the
                    creative use of primary source materials in the classroom; to develop a Resource Guide for teachers
                    which provides easy access to detailed information, activities, and resources about the pioneer
                    period in Indiana; and to provide a model by which teachers and other educators and their students
                    might explore and utilize primary resources in their own communities" (p. xi). Students
                    work with packets on five general subject areas: Commerce, Trade, and Agriculture; Daily Life;
                    Education; Politics; and Transportation and Communication. Each packet includes five Indiana
                    documents, a timeline, a glossary, a letter of introduction, and an Indiana map locating the sources
                    of the documents.
            The teacher resource guide contains pertinent background information on the topic and documents,
                    supplemental documents, teaching suggestions, related maps, and suggestions on locating additional
                    resources. The background information portion of the guide should prove especially helpful to the
                    teacher. Because of the obscure nature of many of the documents, the terminology, place references,
                    and individuals mentioned will be unfamiliar to teachers and students. The guide provides adequate
                    identification to help the teacher feel comfortable with the document and assist students in
                    understanding its meaning. Paragraph biographies are provided for the 1844 election broadside of not
                    only Henry Clay but also of Hoosiers Samuel C. Sample, Richard W. Thompson, Horace P. Bid-dle, and
                    John D. Defrees. The guide provides conv'enient in-text source information for those
                    wishing to pursue the topic further.
            All documents are from originals located in the Indiana State Library and the William H. Smith
                    Library of the Indiana Historical  Society, which naturally
                    limited the selection process. An inventory of the packet on education reveals, nevertheless, an
                    interesting variety of documents. The packet includes a page from Abraham Lincoln's 1824
                    sumbook, an 1823 letter from an eleven-year-old boy to his parents on his first day at
                    "college" in Bloom-ington, an 1843 advertisement for a girls' school in
                    Indianapolis, two 1840s cards of merit for pupils, and a teacher's contract for 1850. While
                    not all counties or major cities are represented by documents, there appears to have been some
                    attempt to choose documents which students from all parts of the state could find relevant to their
                    region.
            Teachers will likely use the Broadsides materials as supplements to the existing
                    curriculum rather than constructing a course completely around the packets. The documents and guide
                    are suggested as appropriate for upper elementary grade levels through high school, It seems,
                    however, that the student activities in the guide are most useful for the upper elementary level. A
                    more appropriate approach for high school activities would be a series of documents containing
                    opinions and actions on a specific issue or event which would require the students to interpret,
                    analyze, and organize the data in an attempt to reach logical conclusions.
            While the teachers who use all or parts of this program are unquestionably helping their students
                    develop a stronger understanding of the significance of the nation's history, they may well
                    be teaching a concept of greater importance. Students who use this material should acquire a far
                    better appreciation of the nature of history itself. They will appreciate more fully the
                    significance of primary source material not only in understanding the content of courses in school
                    but also in analyzing the history of their families and communities.
            WILLIAM E. BARTELT is a history teacher at Harrison High
                    School in Evansville, Indiana, and the current president of the 
                        Vanderburgh County
                     Historical Society. He is also the historian at the Lincoln Boyhood National Memorial, 
                        Lincoln City
                    , Indiana.
         
         
            
               The Transformation of American Quakerism: Orthodox Friends,
                    1800–1907. By Thomas D. Hamm. (Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1988. Pp.
                    xvii, 261. Illustrations, charts, tables, appendixes, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $25.00.)
            The image of the Quakers, or Society of Friends, for most Americans is fragmented into two aspects.
                    The genial gentleman on the oatmeal box represents the colonial Quaker, dressed in the plain style
                    to symbolize a people set apart, like the Amish, by their quaintly sectarian ways. The second image,
                    that of the activist Quaker, usually so by "convincement" rather than
                    "birthright," has been a major force in contemporary pacifist and humanitarian 
                    
                  INDIANA YEARLY MEETING OF FRIENDS, 1844, BY MARCUS MOTE
                  
                  Courtesy of Earlham College Archives
               
                     causes. Scholarly literature focuses heavily on the first
                    image. A considerable body of impressive work has interpreted the rise of the Friends in Britain,
                    their transplantation to Pennsylvania, and their history there from the time of William Penn to the
                    Hicksite schism in 1827. Thomas D. Hamm of Earlham College has now set out to fill in the Quaker
                    story for the middle and late decades of the nineteenth century.
            Hamm's emphasis is on "Orthodox" Quakers-those who by the time of
                    independence had begun to adopt distinctively Protestant tenets. In 1845 the Orthodox Quakers split
                    into the more conservative "Wilburites" and the increasingly evangelical
                    "Gurneyites," who were dominant in the Midwest and were particularly strong in 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana. The bulk of Hamm's study deals with successive changes among the
                    Gurneyites, from their moderate program of adaptation to evangelical practices, to a headlong rush
                    into the Holiness movement, and finally into a phase in which "Modernists" such as
                    Rufus Jones successfully challenged evangelical dominance. Much of this story is unfamiliar to all
                    but a handful of specialists, and Hamm presents it in an accessible and often engaging way.
            In addition to this basic narrative, Hamm attempts to correlate these changes among Friends with
                    developments in the broader society, especially in the ongoing erosion of their isolation from that
                    society and the resulting impact of broader religious trends. He also provides analyses of the
                    social background of the leadership cadres that emerged in successive waves of change. In general
                    his interpretations are persuasive; Hamm might, however, have pursued them more consistently for
                    maximum effect. Another problem is the author's periodic assumption that the reader knows
                    more about Quaker history, practice, and terminology than is probable, although he periodically
                    tries to supply such background. On the whole, however, this study is very successful in filling in
                    some important historical blanks and deserves a wide readership among those interested in American
                    religious history as well as students of Indiana and the Midwest.
            PETER W. WILLIAMS is professor of religion at Miami
                    University in Oxford, 
                        Ohio
                    . He is an editor of the Encyclopedia of the American Religious
                    Experience (1988), and the author of Popular Religion in America (1980,
                    1989).
         
         
            
               George Rapp's Years of Glory: Economy on the 
                            Ohio
                        , 1834–1847. (George Rapp's Third Harmony: A Documentary
                    History.) Compiled and edited by Karl J. R. Arndt. (New York: Peter Lang Publishing, Inc., 1987. Pp.
                    xxxi, 1163. Illustrations, map, index. $193.OO.)
            Karl J. R. Arndt, the author of a thorough study of George Rapp and his followers who built Harmony
                    on the Connoqueness-ing, Harmony on the Wabash, and Economy on the 
                        Ohio
                    , now has  edited a documentary history of the
                    Harmonists, or Rappites. George Rapp's Years of Glory consists of German
                    letters, most of which are translated. Arranged in chronological order, the letters discuss legal
                    matters, business, dissenters, travelers, friends, pleas for help, loans, diatribes, accolades.
                    Arndt has written a preface for each year and headnotes for the letters.
            In his introduction Arndt makes much of the fact that counselor-at-law R. W. Russell of Cincinnati,
                    Friedrich Engels, Karl Marx, and others thought of the Harmonists as communists. It would be a grave
                    error, however, for the casual reader to take this as a simple fact. Rapp's communism was
                    based on Acts 11, verses 44-45, "And sold their possessions and goods, and parted them to
                    all men, as every man had need." Rapp often stated that without a religious base communal
                    life would not succeed.
            Hoosiers will find a few nuggets in this volume. A letter of October 16, 1834, from George Rapp to
                    Thomas Say expresses Rapp's gratitude for Say's care for the Harmonist flowers on
                    the Wabash. In the July, 1835, record of his visit to Economy, G. W. Featherstonhaugh records
                    Rapp's opinion of Robert Owen. Rapp thought that "Owen had benevolent
                    intentions,—but that he and Owen were not walking in the same path" (p. 128). He
                    said to Featherstonhaugh, "My friend, old George Rapp thinks that whoever attempts to bend
                    men into a community of interests on any other grounds but a strong religious feeling, will not
                    succeed" (p. 129).
            In a letter of April 11, 1840, James S. Buckingham describes the Harmonists and their three moves. He
                    states that the second Harmony "was eminently beautiful and fertile; but in the spring, the
                    rich meadows were infested with small worms on the high grass, in such quantities that they were
                    called ‘the army of worms;’ in summer the mosquitoes were intolerable; and in
                    the autumn the fever and ague prevailed" (p. 462). Hoosier distrust of the Harmonists
                    prevailed as late as August 14, 1846, when Johannes Bauer wrote to Economy for proof of his
                    citizenship so that he could vote in Indiana.
            This reader would have liked to have seen the responses to the letters that are collected here, but
                    they are not included. Arndt's volume is nevertheless a useful reference work for anyone
                    studying the Harmonists or anyone making a comparative study of communal groups.
            HILDA ADAM KRING is professor emeritus
                    at 
                        Grove City
                     College, 
                        Grove City
                    , Pennsylvania, and the author of The Harmonists: A Folk-Cultural
                    Approach (1973). She is a frequent visitor at Old Economy, and in April, 1988, spoke about the
                    Harmonists at the Twelfth Annual Symposium of the Society of German-American Studies.
         
         
         
            
               Theodore Dreiser's "Heard in the Corridors" Articles and
                        Related Writings. Edited by T. D. Nostwich. (Ames: 
                        Iowa
                     State University Press, 1988. Pp. xxiv, 155. Illustration, notes. $22.95.)
            As the critical battle over the works of Theodore Dreiser becomes less polemical and more analytical,
                    even those scholars and critics who attack his clumsiness and crudeness cannot deny his power or his
                    place in American literary history. Books and articles on Dreiser's life and writings
                    proliferate, and interest runs high. This volume of Dreiser's newspaper writings, edited by
                    T. D. Nostwich and published by 
                        Iowa
                     State University Press, will serve as both an important contribution to and catalyst
                    for Dreiser scholarship.
            If the road to critical acceptance in American literature has been a rocky one for Dreiser, the one
                    he travels to be welcomed by fellow Hoosiers is rougher still. Remembered primarily for naturalistic
                    novels that scrutinized human frailty, revealed the potential for corruption in all social classes,
                    and failed to draw proper moral conclusions about the value of rural and small-town life, Dreiser
                    was never considered a part of Indiana literature's "Golden Age" and has
                    seldom been counted as an Indiana author. In A History of Indiana Literature,
                    written by Arthur W. Shumaker and published by the Indiana Historical Society in 1962, Dreiser was
                    excluded from any kind of treatment "because of insufficient residence and Indiana
                    influence in [his] works" (p. 18). Among the virtues of the Nostwich volume, at least for
                    Hoosier readers, is its depiction of a young reporter relying heavily on Indiana experiences to
                    fulfill the demands of a daily newspaper column.
            Although Nostwich includes a few pieces that Dreiser wrote for newspapers in Chicago and Pittsburgh,
                    the focus of the book, as its title indicates, is a selection of the "Heard in the
                    Corridors" columns written for the St. Louis Globe-Democrat from
                    November, 1892, to April, 1893, when Dreiser was twenty-one. Ostensibly interviews with guests at
                    St. Louis hotels, the columns are actually the inventions of Dreiser. "Taken
                    together," says the editor, "they constitute his first significant body of
                    creative work" and "anticipate such characteristic motifs, sounded …
                    later in his novels, as the inherent inequality of men, the function of instinct in behavior, the
                    role of luck in achieving success, the all-importance of money in American life, the saintliness of
                    the loving mother, the nature of literature, and the character of the artist-writer" (pp.
                    xxii-xxiii). Those looking for a connection between Dreiser's mature work and his Indiana
                    experience need look little further than these columns, and those who maintain, as some recent
                    scholars do, that Dreiser's artistic vision and fictional technique are a direct result of
                    his journalistic experience will find much support in the work of Nostwich.
            J. KENT CALDER is managing editor of the Indiana
                    Historical Society's popular history magazine, Traces of Indiana and
                        Midwestern History.
            
         
         
         
            
               Witter's Deutsch–Englische Schreib–und
                        Lese–Fibel für Amerikanische Freischulen. By C. Witter. Reprint of
                    1881 revised edition. (Indianapolis: Indiana German Heritage Society, Inc., 1987. Pp. 95.
                    Illustrations, appendix. Paperbound, $4.69.)
            Indiana has its share of history and geneaology recorded in old-style German documents which must be
                    read in Fraktur and script. Unless these archaic forms have been studied, Fraktur is hard to
                    understand, and script, impossible. Fewer and fewer people have been taught them. This reprint of
                    Witter's German-English primer for American public schools "wants to
                    meet" this "special need" and aims to help in "deciphering old
                    manuscripts, letters and diaries, church records and entries in old family Bibles" (p.
                    iii). Witter's primer offers fundamental and systematic instruction—a basic
                    course—in the old written forms as German-Americans learned them, as well as lessons in
                    the reading of elementary German. Here, too, is an artifact of nineteenth century schooling, a
                    document of ethnic history, and a record of beliefs and values taught to children. "Seid fröhlich! Steh früh auf! Be merry! Rise
                    early!" (p. 65).
            The appendix includes a table of statistics on German in American schools. In Indiana 532 teachers in
                    231 schools in 153 communities taught German to 30,038 pupils in 1880 (pp. 92-93). The reprint of
                        Deutsch Englische Schreib-und Lese-Fibel is a valuable aid in understanding
                    the German language and the Germans of the past and will be used many times with pleasure and
                    profit.
            FREDERIC TRAUTMANN has published translations in
                    historical journals, including the Indiana Magazine of History. His latest
                    translated books are about Germans in the Civil War: Twenty Months in Captivity
                    (1987) and "We Were The Ninth"(1987).
         
         
            
               Charles Scott and the "Spirit of ‘76." By Harry M.
                    Ward. (Char-lottesville: University Press of Virginia, 1988. Pp. xii, 262. Illustrations, maps,
                    notes, bibliography, index. $24.95.)
            Charles Scott's name is not widely known today, but Indiana history buffs may recognize him
                    as commander of the Kentucky militia that fought with Arthur St. Clair and Anthony Wayne against the
                    Indians of the Northwest Territory in the early 1790s. Readers of Charles Scott and the
                        "Spirit of '76 will learn that Scott's long military and brief
                    political career spanned the years from the French and Indian War to the War of 1812. Rising from
                    private to captain of militia during the former conflict, the Virginian became a general in the
                    Continential Army during the War for Independence. Scott's service in that war enhanced his
                    reputation but left him with a sizeable burden of debt—not an uncommon experience  for the patriots of 1776—so in 1787 Scott moved his
                    family to Kentucky in search of opportunity. After his stint as state militia commander, he served
                    as governor from 1809 to 1812, the year before his death.
            Harry M. Ward contends persuasively that Scott exemplified for two generations the Revolutionary
                    theme of dedication to liberty and its armed defense. Having helped establish a national tradition
                    of service, Scott personified that tradition for Kentuckians from the 1790s to the War of 1812,
                    which Scott presented to his constituents as a second war of independence.
            Ward thoroughly presents all that is known about Scott. Although handicapped by the absence of
                    Scott's personal papers, Ward has done an outstanding job of piecing together
                    Scott's career, largely from a variety of collateral sources. Those sources are adequate to
                    establish the outlines and sometimes the details of Scott's activities, but the surviving
                    record is too sparse to permit more than a general impression of his character and personality. The
                    writing is clear but often plodding. The publisher has included maps when needed, but several of the
                    map reproductions are too small in scale to be useful.
            This book's strong point is the author's diligent and resourceful research. The
                    result is the best life of Charles Scott readers are likely to find. The book advances no important
                    new interpretations of the larger context of Scott's life, but it is nevertheless of value
                    to those who are deeply interested in the history of the American Revolution, Kentucky, and the Old
                    Northwest.
            JAMES HAW is associate professor of history at Indiana
                    University-Purdue University, Fort Wayne. He is principal co-author of Stormy Patriot:
                        The Life of Samuel Chase (1980) and is currently working on a life of John and Edward
                    Rutledge.
         
         
            
               The Origins of the Republican Party: 1852–1856. By William E.
                    Gienapp. (New York: Oxford University Press, 1987. Pp. xi, 564. Notes, maps, bibliography,
                    statistical appendix, tables, index. $35.00.)
            The politics of the Civil War era, especially in the decade of the 1850s' have long
                    intrigued scholars who have produced a veritable mountain of studies on the subject. William E.
                    Gienapp provides the most recent book-length addition to this literature with his volume on the
                    origins of the Republican party. This work should have the subtitle, "A Study of Party
                    Origins in Nine States" (Connecticut, Massachusetts, Maine, New York, Pennsylvania, 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, Illinois, and 
                        Iowa
                    ). Herein lies the major disappointment in Gienapp's otherwise generally fine
                    and important achievement, for he largely ignores the men and events of the remaining northern and
                    western states. If party disintegration, realignment, and 
                    formation were significant developments or otherwise unique in these bypassed states, the reader
                    will remain uninformed about them.
            Except for Iowa's political developments, which Gienapp largely summarizes rather than
                    analyzes, his examination of political activities in the remaining eight targeted states is quite
                    good. This achievement derives not so much from ploughing new ground but from honing, refining, and
                    correcting previous studies as well as providing a number of original and penetrating insights of
                    his own. Gienapp supports his views with a mass of statistical evidence in the form of maps, tables,
                    and explanatory footnotes (electoral maps for 
                        Iowa
                     are not provided).
            Gienapp contends that the disintegration of the Jacksonian party system and the formation of the
                    Republican party were distinctive although related political phenomena. He maintains, additionally,
                    that scholars of the era have not given appropriate emphasis to state and local history,
                    specifically ethnocultural developments, temperance, and nativism—especially
                    anti-Catholic bigotry-as factors germane to the destruction of the old party system and the eventual
                    creation of the new party alignments. Nor have scholars paid enough attention, according to Gienapp,
                    to such issues as the violence in Kansas, the assault upon Charles Sumner, or even the selection of
                    Nathaniel Banks as Speaker of the House, as ingredients crucial to the ultimate success of the
                    Republican party.
            This is a useful, well-edited volume. The bibliographical essay will be helpful both to young
                    researchers and established scholars alike, and it is a pleasure to find the footnotes where they
                    properly belong, at the bottom of the page. Although strongly opinionated and highly selective,
                    Gienapp furnishes numerous suggestions for additional investigation and research in the bibliography
                    as he does elsewhere in the book.
            Despite limiting his investigation and analysis to nine northern and western states and despite a
                    writing style that is often ponderous and tedious, Gienapp has produced a useful addition to the
                    literature on antebellum politics. A second volume, designed to bring the study of 1850s politics
                    through the election of 1860, is contemplated. Perhaps the author will include more than the nine
                    targeted states in this companion undertaking.
            MORTON M. ROSENBERG is professor of history at Ball State
                    University, Muncie, Indiana. Among his works are 
                  
                            Iowa
                         on the Eve of the Civil War (1972) and a variety of articles on national,
                    state, and local history, ranging from the American revolution to the Spanish-American War.
         
         
            
               Gettysburg: The Second Day. By Harry W. Pfanz. (Chapel Hill: University of North
                    Carolina Press, 1987. Pp. xx, 601. Illustrations, maps, appendix, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $34.95.)
            The fate of the 
                        United States
                     hung in the balance on July 2, 1863, the second day of the battle of Gettysburg. Harry
                    W. Pfanz has given that day the minutely detailed study it has long deserved.  Probably more volumes have been written about Gettysburg than about any
                    other event in American history, but none is clearer or more firmly grounded in research than this
                    one. It is certainly among the best ever written about the battle. The author sets forth the
                    development of the second day of the battle and introduces readers to the people in the fight, from
                    the leaders to the rank-and-file soldiers, from the brilliant to the foolish.
            Pfanz is an excellent writer, and the style and organization of this book make it eminently readable.
                    The historian must search out the truth in often conflicting personal narratives, reconciling or
                    choosing among them. The battle of Gettysburg produced thousands of accounts, and the author has
                    done an outstanding job bringing some of these together to tell part of this epic story. He has made
                    his choices well. If points are to be disputed, such dispute is one of the aspects of Civil War
                    history that makes it so abidingly interesting. Pfanz documents what he says, and his notes are
                    logical, well reasoned, and add immeasurably to the work.
            The first and third days of that monumental struggle were deadly in a straightforward way: head-on
                    clashes of mighty masses of men, bloody and devastating. This book is the story of Robert E.
                    Lee's attempt to win the fight on the second day of the battle by turning the Union left
                    and of George G. Meade's successful defense against it. It was a day of boggling
                    complexities, of mistakes, of ingenuity, of seemingly superhuman effort, of courage, savagery, pain,
                    kindness, and death spread across the fields and hills south of the town. To tell the story
                    coherently and to breathe historic life into the people who were there and figured into the scheme
                    of things is difficult. Harry W. Pfanz has spent a good portion of his life tramping the ground of
                    Gettysburg, searching the libraries, seeking new material to enrich the mountains of the old,
                    developing an understanding of what happened on that crucial day. He has put it into writing, and
                    readers are the richer for it.
            JAMES A. TRULOCK is a past president of the Indianapolis
                    Civil War Round Table. He and Alice Rains Trulock have recently completed a Civil War biography of
                    Union General Joshua L. Chamberlain, a prominent participant in the second day's action at
                    Gettysburg. An excerpt from this book has appeared in the Civil War
                Quarterly.
            
         
         
            
               Corncribs: In History, Folklife, & Architecture. By Keith E. Roe. (Ames: 
                        Iowa
                     State University Press, 1988. Pp. xi, 103. Illustrations, map, bioliography, index.
                    $24.95.)
            Observers of changes in the Midwest's rural landscape generally recognize that the form and
                    function of agricultural structures reveal the evolution of occupational processes and technologies.
                    Some of these structures, including corncribs and summer kitchens, are still commonly seen even
                    though the particular occupational  needs that motivated their
                    constructions are only infrequently encountered. More ephemeral items of material culture such as
                    the hayrick or grain strawstack are today only encountered in Old Order religious areas, at
                    festivals and reunions, and through the oral histories and narratives of older regional residents.
            Keith E. Roe's contribution to understanding this landscape is an eminently readable and
                    copiously illustrated historical overview of American corncrib design and construction. The
                    author's interest and obvious fascination with corn storage structures reflects in part his
                    own experiences on his father's corncrib carpentry crew in 
                        Iowa
                     in the late 1950s. The accelerated demise in corncrib construction is only a single
                    generation old (and by no means complete), and Roe deserves credit for portraying an aspect of
                    agricultural life before the wholesale disappearance of the structures or the people who built and
                    used them.
            The book begins with short chapters on corn growing and crop preservation techniques used by Indians,
                    colonial settlement groups, and pioneers of the Upland South and Old Northwest. The brief overviews
                    of agricultural systems are sometimes simplistic, yet Roe is generally successful in charting the
                    ethnic and occupational influences on the development of corn storage structures in the New World.
                    He gives particular attention to Scandinavian and Central European immigrant structures as he
                    contends that the v-shaped upward flaring style of these immigrant groups' log haysheds are
                    the precursors of a basic American corncrib design. The small bins built on farms in the colonies,
                    and later in Appalachia, the Upland South, and the Old Northwest between 1800 and 1850, were
                    typically single crib structures constructed with horizontal logs or boards.
            
               Corncribs focuses primarily on the structures built between 1860 and 1960 in the
                    Midwest where there were the largest crops and greatest need to dry and conserve ear corn for
                    livestock. Roe is clearly most comfortable with twentieth century descriptions. Two-thirds of the
                    book's total text and two hundred illustrations focus on the period between 1930 and 1960
                    when most of the largest and still-extant cribs were built. The author succinctly treats the factors
                    that increased corn production (including hybrid corn, fertilizer increases, adoption of cornpickers
                    and elevators) and thus necessitated changes in crib volume, design, and construction techniques, as
                    well as the changes (including earlier-maturing hybrids, mechanical grain drying, and combines with
                    corn heads) that eventually led most farmers to abandon their cribs or modify them to some more
                    practical use. He traces design evolution from single to double crib design and clearly details the
                    various construction techniques used for the wood structures. Perhaps due to Roe's previous
                        
                    
                  CORNCRIB
                  
                  Reproduced from Corncribs, © 1988, with permission from the 
                                Iowa
                             State University Press, Ames, 
                                Iowa
                            .
                occupational experiences, the book's strongest features are its functionalist
                    discussions of building forms and processes.
            
               Corncribs is thus a combined text and photographic introduction to a once-everyday
                    farm structure made obsolete by changes in agricultural production, technology, and marketing. As
                    the author notes in his preface, he is not concerned with writing a "definitive
                    history" (p. ix) of corncribs or corn storage. The book's excellent illustrations,
                    high-quality paper, fast-paced text, and clean design will appeal to a wide general audience.
                    Agricultural historians, folklorists, and cultural geographers, however, may find the
                    volume's discussion too generalized and brief. Roe's bibliography is
                    comprehensive; unfortunately, it is not keyed to the text through citation references. In fairness
                    to the author, there are few sub-regional studies of corncribs (or silos, granaries, and
                    similar-function structures) upon which to base a comprehensive study. Roe's volume will
                    thus remain the best available study of corncribs until more fieldwork is completed.
            J. SANFORD RIKOON is research associate in rural sociology
                    at the University of Missouri-Columbia. His most recent publications include Grain
                        Threshing in the Midwest, 1820-1940 (1988) and Interpreting Local Culture and
                        History (1988).
         
         
         
            
               The Law of the Land: Two Hundred Years of American Farmland Policy. By John
                    Opie. (Lincoln: University of Nebraska Press, 1987. Pp. xxi, 231. Figures, maps, charts,
                    illustrations, notes, index. $25.95.)
            In The Law of the Land, John Opie provides an illuminating account of public land
                    policy from the Land Survey Ordinance of 1785 to the present. While the survey system brought order
                    to the wilderness, Opie contends that the public policies that followed often resulted in
                    mismanagement of the nation's primary resource. The policies were formulated in three
                    phases. The object of the first phase was "the speedy and undiscriminating turnover of the
                    public domain into private hands" (p. 161). The major beneficiaries in this phase were
                    squatters, "cash rich" speculators, and, especially, railroad builders who
                    acquired enormous grants of land from the federal government and from the several states to
                    subsidize construction. The pioneer farmer, who is often supposed to have been the beneficiary of
                    federal policy, was more often than not excluded from obtaining land by unrealistically high prices
                    and a lack of cash. The first phase of public land policy came to an end in 1934 with the enactment
                    of the Taylor Grazing Act which placed in grazing districts most of the remaining public land, some
                    142 million acres.
            In the second phase of federal land policy, which overlapped the first, it became evident that there
                    was a limit to public land. The 1909 report of the National Conservation Commission revealed the
                    public domain had all but disappeared, and classification of the remaining land was encouraged.
                    Traditional reliance on the independent farm family and dependence on its productivity was beginning
                    to erode like the soil. With the Soil Conservation and Domestic Allocation Act of 1936, the
                    congressional "mood swung from saving the farmer to saving the soil" (p. 153).
                    Policy shifted from settling the independent farm family on the land to conserving the soil as a
                    means of ensuring abundant crops.
            The 
                        United States
                     is currently in the third phase of federal land policy. Legislation continues to be
                    directed away from the independent family farmer toward protection of the best farmland and the
                    production of ever-increasing amounts of food. The focus is on large-scale, highly centralized
                    agribusiness. Where this policy will lead and with what results is unclear.
            In writing this book, Opie aims to "explore the historical forces that controlled our
                    national capacity to mold an agricultural landscape and our relative ability today to reshape that
                    landscape into something more workable" (p. xiii). He achieves his goal not only by
                    examining federal policies that shaped the landscape but also by arguing for a replacement of the
                    survey system with agricultural districts, zones, conservancies, and other protection plans.  While The Law of the Land is not of
                    compelling relevance to the history of Indiana, there is much in it to commend it to students of
                    public land policy. Chapters dealing with railroads, arid lands, water, and California are
                    especially interesting. In view of the recent drought in the nation's heartland, the
                    concluding chapters are prophetic, perhaps even ominous.
            DAVID L. WHEELER is dean of the Graduate School and
                    professor of geography at Ball State University. He specializes in the historical geography of the 
                        United States
                    . His current research focuses on weather and its effect on the range cattle industry in
                    the southern Great Plains, 1880-1889.
         
         
            
               Indian Agriculture in America: Prehistory to the Present. By R. Douglas Hurt.
                    (Lawrence: University Press of Kansas, 1987. Pp. xiii, 290. Illustrations, map, notes,
                    bibliographical note, index. $29.95.)
            This book is a general history of American Indian agriculture from its ancient origins to the 1980s.
                    As its bibliographical essay and copious notes testify, there is a wealth of historical,
                    anthropological, legal, and economic literature about Indian agriculture, but nobody has tried to
                    tell its whole story in one place. R. Douglas Hurt has performed a real service by summarizing so
                    much diverse scholarship and making the results available in a clear, readable form.
            He tells a "story of supreme achievement and dismal failure" (p. 228). The
                    achievement came early; mesoamerican farmers domesticated plants at least seven thousand years ago.
                    Corn, their most important crop, spread into the present 
                        United States
                     sometime after 3400 BC. Ancient farmers also developed agricultural processes of
                    various kinds, including irrigation and systems of land tenure. There ends the achievement, which
                    occupies five of Hurt's fourteen chapters. The rest of the book chronicles a long series of
                    failures that resulted from white people's actions and from government policies in
                    particular. Chapters summarize the tactics used to acquire Indian land, generally unsuccessful
                    efforts to instruct Indians in white farming methods, the reservation system, sever-alty, New Deal
                    reforms, termination, and current struggles over scarce western water. Each topic is presented with
                    exemplary clarity and abundant but not bewildering detail. A brief epilogue offers a convenient
                    summary of Hurt's principal conclusions.
            Indian farmers fade into the background when the book's focus shifts from their early
                    achievements to government policy. Eleven photographs show exceptionally successful southwestern
                    Indian farm operations, but the accompanying text depicts Indians as generally passive victims of
                    white blunders, indifference, and cupidity. The 
                        United States
                     government tried to make nomadic peoples into 
                    farmers, fostered grain production where livestock might have had a better chance, tried to limit
                    overgrazing on Navajo ranges in ways that nearly starved some herders, and allowed much of the
                    Indian land base to pass into white ownership or use. Indians have been unable to respond to white
                    initiatives successfully. Few of them farm now, although most Indians still live in rural areas.
            This is not an inspiring or entertaining book, but it deserves a wide audience among students of
                    agriculture, Indians, and American history in general. It should be especially helpful to teachers
                    who try to take some account of Indians in 
                        United States
                     history courses. Specialists in Indiana history will find few direct references to this
                    part of the country but nevertheless may learn something about the western experiences of peoples,
                    such as the Potawatomi, who were forcibly removed from this area.
            DONALD B. MARTI is associate professor of history at
                    Indiana University at South Bend. His works include the Historical Directory of
                        American Agricultural Fairs (1986) and articles on religion and agriculture in the
                    nineteenth century.
         
         
            
               Mother Earth: An American Story. By Sam D. Gill. (Chicago: University of Chicago
                    Press, 1987. Pp. x, 196. Notes, bibliography, index. $24.95.)
            In 1810 Tecumseh allegedly told William Henry Harrison, "The Earth is my mother and on her
                    bosom I will repose" (p. 6). Other Indians later expanded on the Mother Earth theme,
                    describing her as an ancient and universal goddess/creator who provides a primordial and spiritual
                    base to the Indian identity.
            Scholars and observers familiar with Native American beliefs have documented and acknowledged the
                    Mother Earth story for more than a century. Now Sam D. Gill, professor of religious studies at the
                    University of Colorado, has come along to contend that not only does this emperor have no clothes
                    but that there may be no emperor at all.
            Gill argues that there was no Mother Earth goddess common to all Native American tribal cultures. At
                    best, he suggests, one can find numerous female religious figures, whose great diversity makes it
                    "unproductive to collapse [them] into a single goddess …" (p. 151).
                    According to Gill, most of the arguments for Mother Earth rely on a few questionable sources
                    (statements by Tecumseh and Smohalla and specific evidence from Zuni, Luiseño, and other
                    tribal religions), which often reflect white attitudes more than Indian and suggest Mother Earth was
                    the result of Indian-white contact in the New World. Yet scholars basing their studies on those
                    materials or simply citing each other developed and continue to perpetuate Mother Earth's
                    story. By the twentieth century, Native Americans had embraced Mother Earth as their own as the
                    basis for their identity and relationship to the land.
            
            Gill's argument is fascinating. Whether or not Mother Earth has ancient or recent origins is
                    problematic, and Gill's book is more the opening shot rather than the concluding volley in
                    the battle to decide her fate. Some scholars will argue that Gill, who stresses the great diversity
                    in Native American religions rather than any similarities, cannot see the forest for the trees.
                    Others will attack his limited research base, suggesting the need for more detailed analysis of
                    additional Indian religions. Still others will applaud his exposure of the slipshod work done on the
                    subject by established scholars and praise his meticulous unraveling of the Mother Earth story.
            This brief but provocative volume should spark a lively debate. While it may not disprove Mother
                    Earth's existence as an ancient and universal goddess, it nevertheless shows that she has
                    not yet been proven to exist.
            RICHARD AQUILA is professor of history at Ball State
                    University. His article, "Sights and Sounds: A Total Approach to American Indian
                    Studies," is forthcoming in The History Teacher.
            
         
         
            
               America's Northern Heartland. By John R. Borchert. (Minneapolis:
                    University of Minnesota Press, 1987. Pp. viii, 250. Illustrations, maps, figures, graphs, tables,
                    notes, index. Clothbound, $39.50; paperbound, $19.50.)
            "My hope is to capture the reality, the spirit, and the dynamics of the region,"
                    writes University of Minnesota Regents Professor John R. Borchert about his study of the history of
                    development on "One-tenth of America's Land" (p. viii). The region
                    extends from the Upper Peninsula of Michigan to the Rocky Mountains, between the Canadian border and
                    a line drawn roughly from 
                        Rapid City
                    , South Dakota, through Storm Lake and Oelwein, 
                        Iowa
                    , to Lacrosse, Wisconsin. Economic geography is featured in the numerous maps scattered
                    through the text. The book contains many photographs, most of which present historical or
                    contemporary scenes in Minnesota. The major themes of America's Northern
                        Heartland are "dissolving the wilderness" (p. 31) through a period of
                    burgeoning population from 1870 to 1920 and cultural maturation through urbanization,
                    industrialization, and economic diversity since 1920. Borchert fashions the products of some
                    thirty-five years of research into a demonstration of how the heartland of the 
                        United States
                     has taken shape, with Minnesota as its lynchpin, over the past one hundred twenty
                    years.
            As a study of economic geography, Borchert's book is fairly successful. Most important
                    trends are portrayed well enough. Some, however, are missing. Tourism, for example, is not featured
                    as it might be in the histories of the states west of Minnesota. From  appearances, the range of material included is restricted by the
                    selection of sources. Borchert has relied mainly on books, articles, published documents, and
                    fieldwork, and from appearances has worked very little in manuscript collections. Otherwise, his
                    book seems wholly adequate and complete.
            The heartland Borchert describes is not as great or diverse as that featured in a volume edited by
                    James H. Madison, entitled Heartland (Bloomington, 1988), about the larger Middle
                    West. Borchert's breadth of analysis is not as great as that of the authors of the twelve
                    essays contained in Madison's volume. A reviewer might easily take issue with the
                    perception of the geographical boundaries and with the range of subject matter contained in the text
                    by Borchert. But this interesting study must be recommended as a substantial contribution to
                    literature about the history and nature of Middle America. With eighty-two figures and nine tables,
                    it doubles as a reference work on economic geography and as a historical survey of cultural growth.
                    General readers, scholars, educators, and librarians all are advised to regard it as an important
                    work.
            HERBERT T. HOOVER is professor of history at the
                    University of South Dakota, Vermilion. He is the author of The Yankton Sioux
                    (1988), South Dakota Leaders (1988), and of the essay on South Dakota in Heartland (1988).
         
         
            
               The 
                            Organic City
                        : Urban Definition & Community Organization, 1880–1920. By
                    Patricia Mooney Melvin. (Lexington: University Press of Kentucky, 1987. Pp. xii, 227. Figures,
                    tables, maps, notes, bibliographic essay, index. $25.00.)
            In the first two decades of the twentieth century, Progressive thinkers evolved schemes to create a
                    cooperative commonwealth based on new forms of community organization. Patricia Mooney
                    Melvin's Organic City studies one such scheme, the social unit plan.
                    Readers may be disappointed that the book is not as broad as its title suggests, for this is
                    essentially a case study—a good one—of the social unit plan's
                    development and its implementation in Cincinnati. In addition, Melvin weaves into this study the
                    biography of the social unit plan's chief advocate and prophet, Wilbur C. Phillips, using
                    his unpublished writings and his autobiography, Aduenturing for Democracy (1940).
                    Phillips, a Robert Owen-like figure, attracted considerable support for his social unit plan between
                    1912 and 1920, and like Owen (whir also believed that society would be redeemed cell by cell)
                    Phillips is still to be found, a quarter century after the abandonment of his experiment,
                    "constant in his belief that the social units could remake America into an organic
                    democracy" (p. 167), seeking backers and funding for his hopelessly defunct schemes.
            
            A Harvard graduate, Phillips developed the idea of the social unit plan in the course of work as a
                    health reformer with the Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor in 
                        New York City
                     from 1907 to 1911 and as secretary of Milwaukee's Child Welfare Commission
                    from 1911 to 1914. With other Progressive theorists, Phillips shared a concept of the "New
                    State" that combined a wider democracy with an insistence on a role for experts. Schemes to
                    improve milk supplies, infant health, or maternal care were valuable not only in themselves but as a
                    demonstration of the feasibility of new forms of organization, and were considered to be prototypes
                    of the "New State" hailed by Robert M. La Follette, Herbert Croly, and other
                    Progressive intellectuals. The social unit plan's adoption in the Mohawk-Brighton section
                    of Cincinnati between 1917 and 1920 marked the most complete implementation of Phillips's
                    theories.
            Melvin is successful in arguing that this plan, though shortlived, was an important Progressive
                    social experiment. As an approach to neighborhood-based preventive health care, the social unit plan
                    developed an impressive organization, with councils of experts (nurses, physicians, and social
                    workers) and with clients themselves helping to determine goals and programs. The seemingly
                    irreconcilable aims of Progressivism—that of enlarging democracy and its insistence on a
                    role for experts-were yoked together by the social unit plan's organization, at least for a
                    few years. Other Progressive era institutions, such as settlement houses, also paid lip-service to
                    these conflicting goals, but the settlements survived while the social unit plan collapsed. This
                    failure shows how far the social unit plan diverged from the direction social work was taking; as it
                    professionalized, social work was becoming less, not more, democratic. By 1920, the social unit plan
                    was hopelessly at odds with the times, and Melvin describes in a lively chapter the attack on it by
                    Cincinnati's political and welfare leaders. The mayor of Cincinnati condemned the
                    experiment as "the most insidious form of socialism and but one step away from
                    Bolshevism" (p. 130). Despite support from the people of the neighborhoods who had
                    benefited from its comprehensive social services, the social unit plan lost funding and collapsed.
            Melvin's study suffers from the tendency of social welfare history to rely on the promoters
                    of schemes and the providers of services rather than on the clients. But if Melvin does not offer a
                    detailed picture of the neighborhoods served or of the social workers and others who supported the
                    social unit plan, she has nevertheless produced a thoroughly researched account of an experiment in
                    social welfare that was also a small-scale experiment in participatory democracy. The social unit
                    plan was a prototype of community organizing experiments of the 1960s with their watchword
                    "maximum feasible participation" of the poor in community planning.  This study rescues it from oblivion and also manages to steer clear of
                    the condescension that sometimes characterizes the history of attempts that failed.
            RUTH HUTCHINSON CROCKER is assistant
                    professor of history, Auburn University, Auburn, Alabama. Her research interests include social and
                    economic history, social welfare history, and women's history. A book on the settlement
                    movement is forthcoming from the University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press.
         
         
            
               Main Street Ready–Made: The New Deal Community of Greendale,
                    Wisconsin. By Arnold R. Alanen and Joseph A Eden. (Madison: State Historical Society of
                    Wisconsin, 1987. Pp. x, 156. Illustrations, maps, figures, notes, bibliography, tables, index.
                    $20.00.)
            Greendale, Wisconsin, like its siblings Greenbelt, Maryland, and Greenhills, 
                        Ohio
                    , offers a unique arena to study the dissonance between American ideals and realities.
                    All three New Deal experiments in town-building expressed in their planning the interwar
                    generation's faith in "multi-cellular" and "garden"
                    cities as solutions to a perceived crisis of threatening urban sprawl and a ho-mogenization of
                    people and communities resulting from urban industrialization. Planning advocates, including Lewis
                    Mumford and his colleagues in the Regional Planning Association of America, designed a community
                    which "enhance[d] the bio-social inter-dependencies within a particular geographic
                    region" (p. 21). It is to the central question raised by this effort at planned communities
                    that Arnold R. Alanen and Joseph A Eden address themselves: how, or to what extent, did these
                    communities fulfill the vision of their planners?
            Despite rhetoric advocating these greenbelt towns as the setting for grassroots democracy and
                    proclaiming the residents as new pioneers, New Dealer Rexford G. Tugwell instead embraced the
                    development of these garden cities as an appropriate relief program. The construction of the new
                    towns promised work relief, low-cost housing, land rehabilitation, and a stabilization of urban
                    communities hard hit by the deepening economic depression. The authors argue persuasively that the
                    vision was breathed into the relief program by the staffs of the various projects, which in
                    Greendale's case was led by Elbert Peets, Harvard-trained landscape architect and chief
                    planner for the Greendale project.
            Peets designed the environment to reflect his understanding of a "workingman's
                    town," believing that "in actuality and in appearance it must be direct, simple,
                    and practical, free of snobbishness, not afraid of standardization" (p. 38). This design
                    would provide a setting and a framework for a social organization that would be equally direct,
                    simple, and practical. The design sought  to balance privacy
                    with communal areas of human proportions in backyards and public areas providing an arena for a
                    "grassroots democracy," and it seemed to work-for a time. Community activity in
                    the form of clubs and study groups, enterprises like newspapers and cooperative stores, and
                    political action as in the case of a rent strike expressed the apparent success of the ideal.
            The authors successfully lead the reader through the maze of actors who carved from the rural
                    landscape a new kind of community. But they do not conclude their work on this relatively optimistic
                    note. The task of dismantling federal ownership in the postwar era became mired in a changed and
                    changing view of federal housing and notions of urban culture and life. The paradigm of
                    interdependent groups within the city could not work in the context of rising individualism in the
                    1950s and 1960s. The authors discover that the ideal of Greendale "became, then, what the
                    people themselves have wanted—not a utopia, but a town where changes could be carefully
                    planned and where the problems of the city seldom intruded. Indeed, planning was used not so much as
                    a directive for change, but as a restraint" (pp. 100-101).
            If planning is, as the authors suggest, a conservative influence, then perhaps the vision of the
                    planners has been fulfilled. This study demonstrates the need for comprehensive examinations of all
                    the greenbelt towns-studies which go beyond the 1950s and question the social impact, as well as the
                    influence on town design, of these experiments in urban engineering.
            CAROL JEAN BLUM is currently working on
                    the revision of a three-volume biographical dictionary of the Women of 
                            Ohio
                        
                with Andrea Tuttle Kornbluh.
         
         
            
               Highlander: No Ordinary School, 1932–1962. By John M. Glen.
                    (Lexington: University Press of Kentucky, 1988. Pp. ix, 309. Illustrations, appendix, notes,
                    bibliographical essay, index. $30.00.)
            A number of "folk schools" were established in the 
                        United States
                     during the 1920s and 1930s to encourage agricultural cooperation and the maintenance of
                    "traditional" rural values. The Highlander Folk School was not among these.
                    Although John M. Glen of Ball State University acknowledges this in his text as well as in his
                    subtitle, he seems uncertain about exactly what kind of school Highlander was. As he says, it was
                    indeed "a school on the cutting edge of social change" (p. 5) and "a
                    school actively committed to social and economic justice" (p. 223), but these descriptions
                    do little to aid the reader.
            Highlander was first of all, a group of persons—Glen is careful to talk about them as
                    "staff' rather than "faculty"—who used the Highlander
                    Folk School near Monteagle, Tennessee, as their base  of
                    operations to challenge southern conservatism through support for the classic left-liberal causes
                    that flourished in each era. In the 1930s and 1940s staff worked in support of the southern labor
                    movement by joining picket lines, establishing strikers' relief funds, and conducting
                    workshops on collective bargaining, and they sometimes initiated organizing campaigns when union
                    representatives were unavailable or unwilling to do so, most notably in connection with the Textile
                    Workers Organizing Campaign after 1937. In the 1950s and 1960s they worked in support of the
                    southern civil rights movement in its various phases, by participating in voter registration and
                    voter education campaigns and by conducting community development and community leadership
                    workshops. In the 1970s and 1980s they worked in support of the southern phase of the local
                    empowerment movement by participating in "poor people's movement"
                    activities, including the Appalachian Self Education Program, which they initiated, and in movements
                    for community control over local institutions, local resources, and the ecological impact of
                    resource utilization, most notably through a series of research projects directed by John Gaventa
                    and published in part as Who Owns Appalachia (1983).
            Second, Highlander was a place—a safe haven for liberal ideas, liberal causes, liberal
                    activities in a generally unsympathetic South. During the 1940s and early 1950s, Highlander provided
                    the locus for CIO-sponsored seminars attended by leaders of local unions, where blacks and whites
                    met together in an integrated setting. In the 1950s and 1960s Highlander was made available for
                    discussion of school desegregation in the South, before and after Brown v. Board of Education, and then for planning sessions on a variety of civil rights
                    activities, including voter registration and the impact of the "student" movement
                    which yielded the Student Non-violent Coordinating Committee. A photograph taken at one of these
                    meetings in 1957 brought national attention to Highlander when the Georgia Commission on Education,
                    and then the John Birch Society, distributed copies of it with the caption, "Martin Luther
                    King at Communist Training School." This same photograph, and the civil rights activism it
                    represented, also yielded intense attacks on Highlander by "law enforcement"
                    agencies and the eventual revocation of its state charter, after which Highlander was reorganized as
                    "The Highlander Research and Education Center" in Knoxville, and later in nearby
                    New Market.
            What kind of school, then, was Highlander? No Ordinary School is correct but
                    insufficient. Glen provides a carefully researched institutional history enhanced by background
                    information on the principal events and actors in the several movements that Highlander staff
                    supported and biographical information about the staff members themselves. But no attempt is made to
                    place Highlander in the context of the history of social reform in America, much less  to illuminate the emergence of left-liberal activism or of its special
                    southern focus during the 1930s and 1940s. Yet Highlander, both as cadre and as venue, surely
                    represents a style of reform activism and a technique of reform organization characteristic of its
                    age. Its history thus cries out to be used to help understand such activism through an analysis of
                    the relationship between program technique and program goals and the relationship of social and
                    political ideology to the definition of program goals and program technique.
            Such information will not come readily from the institutional records, but it should not be the
                    reader's obligation to make the first analytical forays in these directions. And it seems
                    unfair to this reader, at least, to tantalize with a richness of opportunity and then serve only the
                    dry bones of fact.
            HENRY D. SHAPIRO is professor of history and co-director
                    of the Center for Neighborhood and Community Studies at the University of Cincinnati. A specialist
                    in American intellectual and cultural history, he is the author of Appalachia on Our
                        Mind (1978) and of numerous essays on regionalism and the idea of community in the 
                        United States
                    .
         
         
            
               Labor Leaders in America. Edited by Melvyn Dubofsky and Warren Van Tine (Urbana:
                    University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1987. Pp. xvi, 396. Bibliographic notes, illustrations, index. Clothbound,
                    $34.95; paper bound, $14.95.)
            This fine book is a collection of essays on fifteen major labor leaders whose careers are interwoven
                    with more than a century of American labor history. Although the essays are essentially biographical
                    in structure and content, they locate their subjects firmly in the social and cultural worlds of
                    their times. Together they provide at once a useful reference tool and a personalized history of the
                    development of the labor movement in America.
            These well-crafted portraits reflect current interests and themes in the work of labor historians. In
                    the essays on William Sylvis and Rose Schneiderman one sees the interplay between trade union and
                    feminist goals; in the lives of John L. Lewis, Sidney Hillman, Philip Murray, and Walter Reuther the
                    recognition and acceptance of the state as a central player in trade union fortunes; and in the
                    early experiences of such different figures as Samuel Gompers, William D. "Big
                    Bill" Haywood, and A. Philip Randolph encounters with radicalizing ideas that animated
                    their trade union careers in varied ways.
            So broad is the sweep of the volume and so diverse the material gathered that it does not permit easy
                    generalization about either the nature of leadership or the development of the labor movement. In
                    their introduction the editors use a fictitious dialogue 
                    created by J. B. S. Hardman in 1928 between a labor leader and "his younger self'
                    to suggest certain broad themes captured in the essays: the institutionalization and
                    bureaucratization of the labor movement, the importance of state power, the persistent, if
                    transformed, idealism that motivated these leaders, as well as their practical skills as
                    organization-men and women.
            The volume is not simply or even primarily an introduction to the labor movement for persons with
                    little background, though its readability and overall organization make it useful in that regard.
                    The essays contain numerous passages that contribute brilliantly to an ongoing reassessment of the
                    history of the labor movement. David Montgomery's discussion of Sylvis's
                    ideological development between 1867 and 1869 masterfully captures the context that shaped the
                    radicalism of a generation of skilled workingmen. Joseph Conlin's observations on
                    Haywood's organizational skills and cautiousness in leading the International Workers of
                    the World during the war years add complexity to an often stereotyped individual and organization.
                    Alice Kessler-Harris brilliantly documents Rose Schneiderman's efforts to reconcile an
                    enduring commitment to trade unionism with her commitments to unorganized working women whom the
                    trade union movement had largely excluded. Melvyn Dubofsky and Warren Van Tine highlight John L.
                    Lewis's spectacularly important recognition of the centrality of the state to the revival
                    of the labor movement in the 1930s and his recognition that political mobilization was a major
                    feature of the CIO's industrial organizing campaigns.
            This is a book that speaks effectively to and deserves attention from a wide audience of academic
                    historians, trade union leaders and members, and the general public.
            SHELTON STROMQUIST is an associate professor of history at
                    the University of 
                  Iowa, Iowa
                City, and the author of A Generation of
                        Boomers: The Pattern of Railroad Labor Conflict in Nineteenth Century America
                (1987).
         
         
            
               Public Places: Exploring Their History. By Gerald A. Danzer. (Nashville, Tenn.:
                    American Association for State and Local History, 1987. Pp. xiii, 135. Illustrations, figures,
                    suggested readings, maps, appendixes, index. Paperbound, $11.95.)
            
               Public Places is the latest publication in the American Association for State and
                    Local History's "Nearby History Series." Like others in the series, this
                    book touches on the structures and spaces that make up American communities. Gerald A.
                    Danzer's book, however, represents a departure from the single institution focus in the
                    other books by emphasizing a wide range of topics. In Public Places, the author
                    discusses the importance of monuments, buildings, town plans, streets, parks, and open spaces in a
                    community.
            
            The book is designed to assist educators in the development of programs and projects on local
                    history. Each chapter contains a mosaic of information on structures and spaces from which educators
                    may pick and choose in order to develop local history curricula. Public Places
                    will also prove beneficial in the development of guides and surveys exploring the history and
                    development of a community. At the same time, the author has written a book of interest to the
                    general reader.
            The author points out that spaces and structures were built or designed with specific purposes in
                    mind. Although those purposes may have changed over time, the historical significance remains
                    unchanged. Danzer reminds the reader that spaces and structure, together with individuals and
                    events, make up the design of local communities. This theme runs throughout the book as the author
                    uses studies in architecture, urban planning, geography, sociology, and history to make his point.
            Each chapter introduces the reader to the use of primary materials in researching a community. Danzer
                    details the information to be obtained from speeches, promotional pamphlets, maps, postcard views,
                    and annual reports, materials available at most local historical societies or libraries. At the end
                    of each chapter Danzer suggests avenues of interpretation for the information presented. These
                    suggestions help the reader develop ideas for a range of projects and research opportunities. Also
                    included is an annotated bibliography of related articles and books to enable readers and educators
                    to pursue a particular subject.
            The appendixes offer additional suggestions for interpreting the relationship between structures and
                    spaces and the people who have used them, for studying the people themselves and the changes or
                    continuity in a community over time. Finally Danzer includes instructions for designing an exhibit,
                    an oral report, a slide presentation, and a walking tour.
            Through the information and suggestions in Public Places, the author enables the
                    reader to develop a concept of how a community can be studied by creating an understanding of its
                    evolution, its interactions, and its character. This in turn helps the reader to understand better
                    the history and development of the community as a whole.
            KATHLEEN STISO MULLINS is executive
                    director of the Northern Indiana Historical Society in South Bend.
         
         
            
               Oral History for the Local Historical Society. By Willa K. Baum. Third edition.
                    (Nashville, Tenn.: American Association for State and Local History, 1987. Pp. xii, 68.
                    Illustrations, figures, bibliography. Paperbound, $9.75.)
            Oral historians, whether experienced or novice, have used Willa K. Baum's Oral
                        History for the Local Historical Society as a basic text for the past twenty years. They
                    will welcome this revised third  edition with its updates on
                    equipment and methods. Although the titles and the text refer specifically to work being done by a
                    local historical society, the material contained here is universal. Any person or organization
                    planning an oral history project, whether interviewing three, three hundred, or three thousand
                    people, would benefit from reading this volume. As in the first two editions, the book is small and
                    concise. There are absolutely no wasted words; there are no chapters which can be skimmed.
            Baum walks her readers through the process of planning an oral history project, contacting and
                    interviewing narrators, processing the tape, and preserving all materials for research. She
                    discusses legal questions, giving examples of necessary documents. She suggests possible uses of the
                    newly acquired material and includes a well-chosen bibliography for further reading.
            Most of all, however, she concentrates on the interview itself, since all oral history stems from
                    this act of recording an interview with a narrator who has a story to tell. Her advice has the ring
                    of truth arrived at through experience. The beginner will be well advised to read and re-read this
                    portion of the book before attempting a first interview. In oral history, as in other fields, it is
                    difficult to keep up with technological changes. Already some parts of the discussion on equipment
                    may be outdated, but the basic advice as to how to use equipment in the interviewing situation is
                    invaluable.
            The author offers both sides of the question of whether to transcribe taped interviews but suggests
                    that the local project should begin by planning to record only, with transcription as a possibility
                    later. Opinions on this matter differ. This reader feels that transcribing the interviews is a basic
                    part of the oral history process; this is a very minor quarrel with a very major work.
            Oral history lends itself well to research in any environment, including the diverse conditions in
                    Indiana. Any group planning a project where some attempt will be made to probe the memories of older
                    inhabitants, or to study speech patterns, or to obtain an informal "man in the
                    street" view of past events will be well-advised to consider taping interviews. Indiana has
                    a rich oral tradition, which combined with the distinctive Hoosier dialect, preserves memories and
                    history in a special way. Any group planning to use oral history techniques as part of its research
                    should read very carefully Oral History for the Local Historical Society. Further
                    reading might supplement and add to their knowledge, but the basics are all included in
                    Baum's book, a classic in the literature of oral history.
            ELEANOR ARNOLD is project director of Hoosier Homemakers
                    through the Years, a long-term oral history project on the role of women as homemakers. She is
                    editor of five books coming from this project, including Feeding Our Families; Party
                        Lines, Pumps, and Privies; Buggies and Bad Times; Girlhood Days; and Going to Club.
            
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               Indiana's Favorite Sons, 1840-1940. By Ralph D. Gray. (Indianapolis:
                    Indiana Historical Society, 1988. Pp. 40. Illustrations. Paperbound, $3.00.)
            Well illustrated and handsomely produced, this pamphlet will introduce readers to one of the more
                    interesting and important features of Indiana's history-the large number of Hoosiers
                    nominated on presidential or vice-presidential ballots. Ralph D. Gray sketches reasons for this
                    achievement and provides analyses of the campaigns and careers of these favorite sons, from William
                    Henry Harrison to Wendell Willkie, with a closing mention of J. Danforth Quayle. Readers interested
                    in more detail can consult the collection of essays Gray edited and published in 1977 under the
                    title Gentlemen From Indiana: National Party Candidates, 1836-1940. James H. Madison,
                        Indiana University, Bloomington.
            
            
               Manhole Covers of Fort Wayne, Indiana. By Kathryn Moore. (Leo, Ind.: the author,
                    1988. Pp. 104. Illustrations, bibliography. Paperbound, $7.50.)
            Here is good evidence that history is fun and literally underfoot. Kathryn Moore's energetic
                    pursuit of the manhole covers of Fort Wayne has been a labor of love and shows that what appears at
                    first glance to be a simple, even mundane, subject can with enthusiasm and skill become a meaningful
                    part of the study of the past. Moore has made some seventy-five rubbings of different manhole covers
                    in Fort Wayne and includes these rubbings and a listing as well as guides for others who might to
                    stoop down to this kind of project elsewhere. James H. Madison, Indiana University,
                        Bloomington.
            
            
               Wildflowers of Indiana. Original paintings by Maryrose Wampler. Text by Fred
                    Wampler. (Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1988. Pp. xix, 177. Illustrations, bibliography,
                    index. $45.00.)
            Although prosaically entitled in the manner of a field guide, Wild-flowers of
                    Indiana is, literally, a work of art. Eighty plates, reproducd  duced from exquisitely detailed watercolor paintings, depict over three
                    hundred species of plants and flowers in their Indiana settings. Scenes range from fields and
                    woodlands to roadsides and from season to season. Flowers vary from the delicate, pale pink Spring
                    Beauty to the flamboyant orange Butterfly Weed of summer to the rusty purple Ironweed of late summer
                    and fall. The informal text includes accurate identifications and descriptions of the
                    artist's wildflowers as well as personal stories and experiences. This beautiful volume
                    evokes memories of walks through spring woods after a rain and rambles over crisp autumn meadows in
                    the Indiana countryside. Lorna Lutes Sylvester, Indiana University,
                Bloomington.
            
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
