
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 21, Issue 2-3, pages 109-273. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:21+issue:2-3+year:1925&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            The Big Four Railroad In Indiana
            By Ared Maurice Murphy
            PREFACE
            This collection of sketches is not presumed to be a complete history of the various Big Four (or
                            
                  Cleveland, Cincinnati, Chicago
                & 
                        St. Louis
                    ) lines in Indiana. Such a work would be too comprehensive for the purpose of these
                    sketches, and would probably contain much of little interest to the average reader. Accordingly, the
                    beginnings of the different roads now comprising the Big Four in Indiana have been
                    featured—their building, financing, original planning, and the like. In some cases, some
                    later history has been included, in order to carry the effects of the policies inaugurated when the
                    roads were built, to their logical conclusion. Again, some later history has also been introduced to
                    show the gradual changes which took place and which welded several small and struggling lines of
                    railroad into parts of one great system.
            The writer acknowledges with thanks the assistance and advice received from many Big Four officials
                    and others interested in Indiana history, whose part has been specifically mentioned in the
                    sketches. He also wishes to thank, for the same reason, Prof. Harlow Lindley and Miss Lucy Elliott,
                    of the State Historical Commission, the personnel of the Department of Indiana History and Archives
                    of the State library and the Reference Room of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Public library; Mr. C. V. Coulter and Mr. W. E. Crossmyer, storekeeper and general
                    foreman, respectively, of the stores department of the  C. C. C.
                    & St. L. at 
                        Beech Grove
                    ; Mr. E. M. Costin, former general manager of the Big Four; Mr. V. J. Spitz, conductor
                    on the P. & E.; Mr. J. Q. Van Winkle and Mr. C. R. Myers, assistant to the vice-president
                    and general agent, respectively, of the Big Four who have read all the manuscripts; Mr. R. C.
                    Schmid, chief draftsman of the Big Four Motive Power department at 
                        Beech Grove
                    , through whose courtesy several illustrations appear herein; Prof. W. W. Sweet, of
                    DePauw University, under whom the writer majored in history; and Prof. O. A. Kinchen, of the history
                    department of Butler college.
            The field of railroad history in Indiana has been but little explored; and the writer would feel his
                    efforts had been repaid if the following sketches should stimulate any degree of interest in the
                    subject.
            INTRODUCTION
            Like all Indiana history between 1830 and 1860, the story of the building of railroads during that
                    period contains much romance. The line of the "middle border", of which Hamlin
                    Garland has charmingly written, had not passed far beyond Indiana's western boundary; and
                    in great part, their primitive modes of living and the primitive tools and methods by which the work
                    of the pioneers was carried on, are reflected in the building of the early railroads.
            Above all stands out that which has principally given the history of the middle west its undeniably
                    romantic interest—the spirit of progress and enterprise that animated the pioneers of
                    "the new west", the spirit that transformed a virgin wilderness in a few decades
                    into a flourishing region in agriculture, commerce and industry. The story of few early enterprises
                    of Indiana shows that spirit more abundantly than that of the railroads. True, it does not always
                    appear in worthy forms; there was much unscrupulous and underhand work, a great deal of greed,
                    speculation and loose business methods. Most railroad projectors thought railroads would prove to be
                    veritable El Dorados—and like the El Dorado of  the
                    Spanish explorers, the promised wealth proved in many cases to be as elusive in reality as it was
                    glittering in fable.
            The writer has endeavored to portray the romance of these early roads in the beginnings of the three
                    main railroads of the present Big Four lines built in Indiana before the Civil war—the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and Bellefontaine, the 
                        Lafayette
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                    . He has also endeavored to show the tremendous strides railroading has made in seventy
                    years in business methods as well as in operation and equipment; and to pay tribute to the pioneers
                    of vision and industry who built these lines and started them on useful and prosperous
                    careers—men like Oliver Hampton Smith, Albert S. White, and George H. Dunn.
            THE INDIANAPOLIS AND BELLEFONTAINE AND RAILROAD
            The stretch of railroad between 
                        Indianapolis
                     and Union City, Indiana, now a part of the Big Four system, is the oldest part of that
                    system in Indiana, and the second line of railroad to be built in the state. It was built under the
                    name of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and Bellefontaine railroad, because it connected at 
                        Union City
                     with a line to Bellefontaine, which was built about the same time. It has had several
                    changes of ownership since it was chartered in 1848, and this sketch treats principally of its
                    building and operation from that date to its completion at 
                        Union City
                     in December, 1852.
            With the early development of Indiana and the manifest need for internal improvements, it was natural
                    that there should be talk of railroads. The first recorded mention of them is in O. H.
                    Smith's reminiscences of his campaign for congress in 1826, the same year in which the
                    first railroad was built in the 
                        United States
                    . He was having a joint debate with his opponent, Judge John Test, at 
                        Allenville
                    , 
                        Switzerland county
                    . 
                        The judge was speaking, and for the first time introduced the new subject of railroads. He
                            avowed himself in favor of them, and said he had voted for the 
                                Buffalo
                             and 
                                New Orleans
                             road, and then, rising to  the top of his
                            voice, "I tell you, fellow citizens, that in 
                                England
                             they run cars thirty miles an hour, and they will yet be run at a higher speed
                            in America." This was enough. The crowd set up a loud laugh at the expense of the
                            judge. An old fellow, standing by me, bawled out, "You are crazy, or do you think
                            we are fools; a man could never live a moment at that speed." The day was mine. The
                            judge had ruined his prospects by telling such an improbable story at that day.1
                  
                    
                
            It is a singular fact that O. H. Smith was the president of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and Bellefontaine railroad during the period of this sketch, a position which required
                    at times courage and foresight as well as business sagacity.
            The Indiana legislature passed an Internal Improvements bill in 1836, but the turnpikes and canals
                    were its chief beneficiaries. However, they were not a success, as a rule, and the panic of 1837
                    complicated matters further. The repeal of this action January 28, 1842, according to Esarey: 
                        Marked the beginning of the railroad era. The people were rid of all illusions of state-owned
                            enterprises and ready to go to work as best they could by private means.2
                  
                    
                
            Still the era of actual railroad building was not to begin immediately. The tariff of 1842 took
                    railroad iron off the free list and made it subject to a duty of seventeen dollars a ton on hammered
                    bar iron and twenty-five dollars a ton on rolled bar iron. This, in those days, meant about fifty to
                    eighty per cent. The Walker tariff, passed in 1846, reduced this duty to thirty per cent on both
                    classes; and this proved the needed impetus to railroad building, not only in Indiana, but also in
                    other parts of the 
                        United States
                    . The 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Madison
                     railroad was finished in 1847, and Esarey gives a list of nineteen railroads to which
                    the Indiana legislature granted charters within a very few years.3
            
            When the Bellefontaine road, as it was commonly called, was chartered in 1848, the aim was to make it
                    a link of a solid stretch of railroad connecting 
                        Philadelphia
                    , 
                        Pittsburg
                    , 
                        Cleveland
                    , 
                        Sandusky
                    , 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                    . Different routes 
                  
                     1
                            Early Indiana Trials and Sketches, 80.
                  
                     2
                            History of Indiana, Vol. II, 716.
                  
                     3
                            History of Indiana, Vol. II, 718.
               
                     were proposed, and the one by way of Ft. Wayne was strongly
                    urged so as to make a connection with the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie canal. The decision in favor of Bellefontaine is described in the
                    reminiscences of Thomas S. Neely, an old 
                        Delaware County
                     pioneer, quoted in Dr. G. W. H. Kemper's History of 
                            Delaware County
                        , 89: 
                        Some suggested Ft. 
                                Wayne
                             in order to connect with the canal. I was not favorable to that project,
                            because it would freeze up. Others suggested 
                        Connersville, Indianapolis
                     , Bellefontaine, etc. I was most in favor of a
                            connection to the southwestward, to join the 
                                Madison
                             and 
                                Indianapolis
                             railroad, then just completed and put in running order. We were finally
                            solicited by parties both from Ft. 
                                Wayne
                             and from Bellefontaine, and finally agreed to join with the Bellefontaine
                            folks. The manner in which the question was settled was indeed novel. At a meeting at the 
                                Ohio
                             state line, where Union City is now located—there was no Union City
                            then—after a number of speeches had been delivered from a box, it was decided to
                            put the question to a test, and all who were favorable to Bellefontaine were directed to
                            take one side of the door as they filed out, and those favorable to other points the other
                            side.
                    
                
            There were excellent prospects of a good local freight and passenger business along the route, which
                    included Pendent, 
                        Anderson
                    , 
                        Chesterfield
                    , 
                        Yorktown
                    , 
                        Muncie
                     and 
                        Winchester
                    ; but this phase will be elaborated later in this sketch.
            The railroad was chartered by act of the legislature, approved February 17, 1848, and the charter
                    occupies several pages of the published acts of that year. Allen Makepeace, George W. Godwin,
                    William Sparks, John H. Cook, and Jonathan Wynn, of 
                        Madison county
                    ; Thomas J. Sample, John C. Helm, William Saxon, Samuel P. Anthony and James Truitt, of 
                        Delaware County
                    ; William M. Way, David Heaston, Silas Colgrove, David J. Cotton and Gideon B. Wallace,
                    of 
                        Randolph county
                    , were appointed commissioners to open books for subscriptions. When twenty thousand
                    dollars had been subscribed and five thousand paid in, they were to order an election of fifteen
                    directors to constitute 
                        a body corporate and politic by the name and style of the President and Directors of the 
                                Indianapolis
                             and Bellefontaine Railroad Company, and by such name may sue and be sued, plead
                            and be impleaded, answer and be answered unto, either in law or equity in any court of
                            competent jurisdiction within this state.
                    
                
            
            The capital stock was fixed at $1,000,000, payable in money, lands, labor or materials for
                    construction (see digest of the charter in Esarey's History of Indiana,
                    Vol. II, 716) and "counties were empowered to take stock." The company was given
                    the right to call for "such portion of the stock subscribed not in excess of five dollars
                    on each share in any one year." Shares of the stock were twenty-five dollars each, with
                    dividends payable semi-annually. The stock subscribed in 1846 for a proposed continuance of the then
                    embryo 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     railroad to "Pendleton, Huntsville and Anderson-town" was transferred
                    to the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and Bellefontaine company. The state was given the right to "purchase the
                    entire road after sixty years by paying the cost of construction."
            The idea of a privately owned railroad operating its own rolling stock, and such financing as bonds
                    or preferred stock, was comparatively unknown in Indiana in 1848.
            
                    Plainly the people thought of the railroad as another form of public highway different from the
                        State road, the pike and the canal, but still a public highway. With this thought, farmers along
                        the right of way subscribed for stock, intending to pay for it by working on the road; and in
                        this manner the roads were actually financed and built.4
               
                
            Another factor contributing to this condition was the depression in the market for railroad
                    securities caused by the big nation-wide boom in railroad building after 1846. The Indiana, State Sentinel refers often to the stringency of the money market during the
                    years 1848–1852 in connection with the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and Bellefontaine railroad, and the price of railroad iron steadily mounted in spite of
                    the low tariff of 1846.
            Excitement ran high along the proposed right-of-way continuously from the time the road was chartered
                    until it was built. However, as railroads were then comparatively unknown in Indiana, there were a
                    number of doubters. John L. Forkner, in his History of 
                            Madison County
                        , refers to the school board at 
                  Lancaster, Ohio
               , who in 1830
                    refused the use of the school house for the discussion of the railroad, saying: 
                  
                     4 Esarey, History of Indiana, Vol. II, 717.
               
                    
                    
                        Such things as railroads and telegraphs are impossibilities and rank infidelity. There is
                            nothing in the Word of God about them. If God had designed that His intelligent creatures
                            should travel at the frightful speed of fifteen miles an hour, by steam, He would clearly
                            have foretold it through His holy prophets. It is a device of Satan to lead immortal souls
                            to hell.
                    
                
            Though he does not record such absurd objections in 
                        Madison county
                    , he does mention that 
                        one prominent citizen objected to the road running through the town, because the cars would
                            "run over and kill the children." Another insisted that the road would
                            have to be operated at a loss for the reason that "one train could haul all the
                            produce of the county for twenty years at one haul."5
                  
                    
                
            However, the confidence of the people is shown in the way they subscribed to the stock of the road.
                    Within a few months the amount specified in the charter necessary for the beginning of work on the
                    right-of-way was raised, though track laying did not commence until April, 1850. (Dunn, Greater 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 150.) The first definite figures on the subscriptions are given in the report
                    of the president to the directors, March 6, 1849. At this time the total subscribers amounted to
                    1,320, and a total subscription of $279,299, which included 49,653 acres of land and town
                    lots. These were sold as the road needed actual cash for its building and operation. By December 4,
                    1849, when contracts had been let for grading, but no track had been laid, the total number of
                    subscribers was 2,191, and the subscriptions $389,750. An analysis of these subscriptions
                    is given in the report of Col. Thomas Morris, the chief engineer of the road, for December 4, 1859:
            
               
                   
                  
                     March 6
                  
                     December 4
               
               
                  Lands
                  $155,449
                  $175,000
               
               
                  Cash
                  90,425
                  179,125
               
               
                  Labor and materials
                  33,425
                  35,625
               
               
                     Total
                  $279,299
                  $389,750
               
            
            According to the Indiana State Journal, April 6, 1850, which asked the public to
                    subscribe more liberally, the subscriptions at that time were over $400,000.
            
               
                  5 Forkner, History of 
                                Madison County
                            , 167-8.
            
            
            The various counties as well as individuals subscribed stock. 
                        Madison county
                     subscribed 620 shares of stock for $16,000 though this was sold by the
                    county, evidently when it needed money in 1853, for $10,400.6 The
                    order of the board of commissioners of 
                        Madison county
                    , dated June, 1849, authorized this on the condition that it should be paid in four
                    equal installments and the money expended within 
                        Madison county
                    . The board of commissioners of 
                        Delaware County
                     in July, 1848, appointed John Black of 
                        Delaware
                     township an appraiser for the real estate of the county subscribed as stock to the
                    road. At the March session of 1849 they provided for a vote at the April township elections on the
                    question of whether the county should subscribe to the stock of the road. The vote stood 594 for and
                    244 against, so in June the commissioners subscribed $12,000, 
                        one-fourth to be paid when said road shall be cleared and grubbed continuously from 
                                Indianapolis
                             to the east line of the county; one-fourth when graded and bridged to the east
                            line of the county, the remaining one-half when said road shall have been completed ready
                            for cars from 
                                Indianapolis
                             to 
                                Muncie
                            . The sum of twenty-eight cents on every one hundred dollars valuation was
                            ordered assessed.
                    
                
            In 
                        Randolph county
                     it was different, as "bad feeling existed between the county commissioners and
                    the railroad company." The directors of the road called upon the county commissioners to
                    call an election of the people of the county on the question of the county taking "not
                    exceeding $12,000 stock" in the road; but the commissioners, meeting in special
                    session in November, 1850, refused to call the election.
            
                    It would seem that the directors of the company attempted to force the commissioners into taking
                        stock and the commissioners justly relieved themselves of that responsibility.7
               
                
            The ill feeling of the board is further shown in the fact that the stock held by 
                        Randolph county
                     people in the company was taken off the tax duplicate by order of June 10, 1852, and
                    assessed against the "president and directors of said company 
                  
                     6 Kingman Bros., History of 
                                    Madison County
                                , 44.
                  
                     7 Smith and Driver, Past and Present of 
                                    Randolph County
                                , 803-5.
               
                     on the duplicate." Smith and Driver also record that
                    the commissioners assessed the railroad company "to help pay for the bridge just south of
                    Farmland in 1853."8 Silas Colgrove was appointed in September, 1849, to
                    appraise the land subscribed in 
                        Randolph county
                     as stock in the road.
            Oliver Hampton Smith, the first president of the road, former 
                        United States
                     senator, was one of the great men of early Indiana; and as president during the entire
                    period of this sketch, it is to his business sagacity and foresight that credit is largely due for
                    the building and early success of the road. He had an advantage over most pioneer railroad
                    presidents in his long experience in congress, which had given him an acquaintance with most of the
                    leading statesmen of the nation (he has given us some interesting character sketches of them in his
                        Early Indiana Trials and Sketches) as well as influential eastern capitalists.
                    In this way he was able to get some financial aid from the east, and the road authorized the
                    issuance of $50,000 worth of bonds, par value $100 each, with interest at six
                    per cent, payable semi-annually. Two hundred of these bonds were payable in five years, the other
                    three hundred in fifteen years. However, the tight money market already referred to, was against
                    these bonds, so that Mr. Smith, in his report to the directors in March, 1849, relates that the
                    five-year bonds were selling for $86.60 cash, and the fifteen year bonds for
                    $80 cash. The Indiana State Sentinel often referred to the tight money
                    market in appeals for the subscribers to pay their subscriptions, and also contains talk from the
                    officials of the road of suing delinquent subscribers. At the request of the company, the
                    commissioners of 
                        Delaware County
                     paid $2,000 in advance in May, 1850, and $1,000 in advance, by
                    means of loans, on each of the following dates: November 1, 1850; January 1, 1851, and April 1,
                    1851.
            
                    The interest on said $3000 which shall have accrued shall be paid out of the
                        installments of county subscriptions hereafter to become due said company out of the taxes
                        collected in 1851 or the years following.9
               
                
            
               
                  8 Smith and Driver, Past and Present of 
                                Randolph County
                            , 803-5.
               
                  9 T. B. Helm, History of 
                                Delaware County
                            , p. 76.
            
            
            The last installment of 
                        Delaware County
                     was paid in June, 1852. At this session of the board of county commissioners, T. J.
                    Sample was appointed to cast the vote of 
                        Delaware County
                     in the election of directors, and the board ordered, at its March session of 1853:
                        
                        That the auditor and treasurer refund all tax against stock for the 
                                Indianapolis
                             and Bellefontaine Railroad.
                    
                
            President Smith, in his report of March 6, 1849, estimated the cost of the eighty-three miles of road
                    "ready for the cars" as $722,100, or $8,700 per mile for the
                    T-rail and $494,084, or $5,953 per mile for flat bar. Rails are now made of
                    rolled steel, but in those days they were wrought iron. The rails on the early roads were simply
                    flat bars of iron, although the rail in the shape of a letter T, commonly called the T-rail, was
                    invented in 1830. Though it is used on all standard roads today, it was just coming into wide use at
                    the time the Bellefontaine road was being built. Its superior strength and durability caused it to
                    be used on the new road in spite of its higher cost. The rail used cost forty-five dollars a long
                    ton at 
                        New Orleans
                    , being shipped from 
                        England
                    , and weighed sixty pounds to the yard. According to an old conductor on the road, three
                    men in those days could carry a single rail. The rail now used by the Big Four varies in weight from
                    sixty-seven to one hundred ten pounds a yard, and in a few mountainous sections the Pennsylvania now
                    uses one hundred and twenty-five pound rail. In 
                        Muncie
                     where the people showed special interest in the details of the road, a newspaper
                    devoted a half column to an explanation of the T-rail, "and a section of one was also
                    exhibited in one of the local stores."10 Although the T-rail was used
                    on the main track, the side-tracks were constructed of the old-fashioned flat-bar rail, according to
                    J. Q. Van Winkle, assistant to the vice-president of the Bif Four.
            
                    Even in my early days on the Bellefontaine, the flatbar rail was in use on the side-tracks and
                        was a source of considerable inconvenience, says Mr. Van Winkle.
                
            
               
                  10 Dr. Kemper, History of 
                                Delaware County
                            , 90.
            
            
            Up to March 6, 1849, the expenses, chiefly those of organization, had been only $4,540.
                    The directors, given at that time, were David Kilgore, James L. Russey, James Gray, Robert N.
                    Williams, Allen Makepiece, William Sparks, Jeremiah Smith, William M. Way, David Heaston, Peter
                    Miller, Samuel P. Anthony, James Truitt.
            The road, it was decided, should be built in three general sections—one from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to Pendleton, the second from Pendleton to 
                        Muncie
                    , and the third from 
                        Muncie
                     to the state line. Contracts were let for the grubbing and grading in the fall of 1849,
                    and Col. Morris, the chief engineer, in his report of December 4, 1849, gives the cost as
                    $163,502, comprising the grubbing, $20,443; grading, $105,652; and
                    bridging, $37,407. At that time the grubbing and clearing had been completed on the first
                    section. The following from his report, shows the method of construction in those days: 
                        I have provided for ballasting the entire road with gravel to the depth of one foot, upon
                            which longitudinal sills 3 × 12′ will be placed under each rail
                            throughout the entire track. Upon these sills, cross ties 7 1/2′ long, or large
                            enough to square six feet, will be placed at an average distance of three feet from centre
                            to centre. Upon the cross cies the iron will be secured in the ordinary way by chairs and
                            spikes, the track to be filled with gravel to the top of the cross ties.
                    
                
            It may be explained that a chair is an iron piece, fastened to the tie, into which the rail fits. It
                    has been discarded in most parts of the 
                        United States
                    , but is still used in 
                        England
                    . This construction, though the most substantial known in that day, was not any too much
                    so. George S. Cottman writes that the strain of traffic 
                        loosened the spikes, and the strain, moreover, very frequently caused the loosened rails to
                            curl upward at the ends, threatening punctures and derailment; and these snake-heads, as
                            they were called, had to be constantly guarded against. A not uncommon occurrence was the
                            stoppage of trains till the trainmen went ahead with a sledge hammer to spike down rails.11
                  
                    
                
            The condition of which Mr. Cottman speaks, however, applied especially to the flat-bar rail, and
                    corroborates Mr. Van 
                  
                     11 Internal Improvements, in Indiana Historical
                                Pamphlets, 179-80.
               
                     Winkle's statement of the difficulties encountered on
                    the old flat-bar side tracks.
            The gauge, or width between rails, was fixed at 4′ 8 1/2″, which proved to be a
                    mistake, as it later had to be changed to 4′ 10″ to conform to the gauge of
                    connecting roads in 
                        Ohio
                    , and then not until after litigation during which some parts of the road were not in
                    use at all. (Esarey, History of Indiana, Vol. II, 724; J. H. Holliday, 
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         Sentinel, August 25, 1869). The total estimated cost of the road at this time
                    was $1,014,237.16, an average of $12,253.68 a mile. Dr. Kemper writes that
                    when the cost a mile was announced in 
                        Muncie
                    , "many shook their heads and doubted that it (the railroad) would ever
                        pay."12 However, Col. Morris, in his report, had studied carefully
                    the population and production statistics of the four counties along the road, 
                  Marion, Madison, Delaware
                and 
                        Randolph
                    , especially the amount of wheat and corn exported. He compared these in detail with
                    similar statistics for the counties along the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Madison
                     railroad, and thus arrived at an estimate of $265,685 operating revenue a
                    year for the Bellefontaine road. Estimating half this amount for operating expenses, this would
                    leave $132,842.50 net revenue a year, or over thirteen per cent of the capital required
                    "to construct and equip the road." However, the construction estimates were far
                    too low, at that, as the total cost of the road, according to the Railway Times
                    for January 1, 1854, was $1,800,000.
            The first section of twenty-eight miles to Pendleton was ready for track laying by April, 1850, and
                    the first train ran into Pendleton, December 11, 1850. The coming of a railroad was a great event in
                    those days, and when the road was completed to Pendleton, October 8, 1850, there was "a
                    celebration in which all the surrounding country took part."13
                    President Smith was an orator as well as a statesman and business man, and his eloquence featured
                    such celebrations as these. For several months cars ran only between Pendleton and 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            
               
                  12 Dr. Kemper, History of 
                                Delaware County
                            , 90.
               
                  13 Dr. Kemper, History of 
                                Delaware County
                            , 91–2.
            
            
            The road began running trains, Dec. 11, 1850—according to the winter arrangements as
                    published in the 
                        Indianapolis
                     papers, a train left 
                        Indianapolis
                     at 7:45 A. M. and left Pendle-ton in the evening at 1 P. M. each day except Sunday.
                    Like the trains on the road for several years, this was a mixed train, carrying both freight and
                    passengers. The road made connection with the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Madison
                     at 
                        Indianapolis
                     and with stage lines at 
                        Pendleton
                     from the 
                        Wabash
                     and upper White river. As an 
                        Ohio
                     road was being built to connect with the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and Bellefontaine at the state line, the Indiana company bantered the 
                        Ohio
                     company for a dinner at the state line when "the railroad which drives the
                    last spike in the rails pays for the dinner." This banter was recorded in the Indiana Daily Sentinel, January 14, 1851, and the same issue declared that the
                    Bellefontaine road was "undoubtedly the best new railroad in the west." At that
                    time the grading had been done as far as 
                        Muncie
                    , and the grubbing and clearing was in progress on the general section from 
                        Muncie
                     to the state line. It was expected that the cars would be in 
                        Muncie
                     by July 1, 1851, but this, like many other predictions in the building of the road, was
                    far too sanguine. The Indiana State Journal, March 15, 1851, records that the
                    "heavy T-rail" was being laid from Pendleton to Anderson. The "railroad
                    boom" of that time is shown by the fact that at the time the cars were running on two
                    hundred and forty-five miles of railroad in Indiana, and it was expected that five hundred miles
                    would be in operation by the end of the year.14
            
            President Smith took some pride in the statement he was able to make to the directors of the road,
                    February 10, 1851. A depot was finished at 
                        Pendleton
                     and one "nearly done at 
                        Anderson
                    ." Since trains were started between 
                        Indianapolis
                     and Pendleton, December 11, 1850, 
                        a daily train each way has done the business with a single locomotive, one, passenger car and
                            four freight cars without the slightest accident.
                     The following statistics were given to show the traffic on the road since train service
                    started:
            
               
                  14
                        Indiana State Sentinel, Mar. 19, 1851.
            
            
            
               
                  Number of passenger on road
                  3,641
               
               
                  Barrels flour
                  2,774
               
               
                  Bushels wheat
                  26,855
               
               
                  Pounds merchandise
                  479,136
               
               
                  Number hogs
                  5,942
               
            
            The accounting done by the road was evidently very thorough and accurate for that day, though quite
                    simple when compared with the system prescribed by the Interstate Commerce commission in use on
                    railroads today. The present day balance sheet of a railroad is quite lengthy and comprehensive, but
                    the following shows all the salient facts for February, 1851:
            
               
                  Total subscribers
                  2648
               
               
                  Total subscriptions
                  $480,153
               
               
                  Amount of land sold
                  $38,183.73
               
               
                  Received
                  
                            16,250.30
                        
               
               
                   
                  $21,933.43
               
               
                  Amount received into treasury exclusive of lands
                  $174,241.52
               
               
                  Total expenditures have been
                  
                            170,674.39
                        
               
               
                   
                  $ 3,567.13
               
            
            Compared with the complex "operating statement" of today is the following submitted
                    then by President Smith:
            
               
                  Actual road receipts
                  3,830.91
               
               
                  All charges for running including clerk hire and machinery
                  
                            1,645.38
                        
               
               
                   
                  2,185.53
               
            
            Apparently the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and Bellefontaine was prospering with only twenty-eight miles of road in operation. The
                    officers and directors, according to President Smith's statement, Feb. 10, 1851, were:
                    President, O. H. Smith; secretary, James G. Jordan; treasurer, Austin W. Morris; engineer, Thomas A.
                    Morris; assistant engineer, Robert M. Patterson; directors, O. H. Smith, Alfred Harrison, 
                        Marion county
                    ; Thomas R. Noel, 
                        Hancock
                     and 
                        Hamilton
                     counties; William Sparks, Allen Makepeace, Madison G. Walker, 
                        Madison county
                    ; David Kilgore, Samuel P. Anthony, James Truitt, 
                        Delaware County
                    ; Jeremiah Smith, William M. Way, David  Heaston, 
                        Randolph county
                    ; Joseph S. McClellan, 
                        Johnson county
                    ; William A. Rifner, 
                        Henry county
                    ; and R. H. Winslow, 
                        New York City
                    . The names of 
                        New York
                     and, later, 
                        Philadelphia
                     men on the board of directors shows that Mr. Smith had interested eastern capitalists
                    in the new road.
            Summer arrangements for the road were announced in the State Sentinel April 19,
                    1851; the train from 
                        Indianapolis
                     left at 3:30 P. M. daily except Sunday, and, returning, left Pendleton at 5:45 in the
                    morning. The train arrived at 
                        Indianapolis
                     at 7:45, so as to make connection with the southbound train of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Madison
                    , and enable passengers from Pendleton "to arrive at 
                        Madison
                     early in the evening, and at 
                        Cincinnati
                     or 
                        Louisville
                     before day next morning." When the road was finished to Anderson, the train
                    left there at 5:15 in the morning, making a run of thirty-five miles to 
                        Indianapolis
                     in two and one-half hours. Today, the 
                        St. Louis
                     express on the Big Four makes the same run in fifty-five minutes.
            About the same time, a staff member of the Sentinel "paid ourselves the
                    compliment of a ride on the road", which was duly chronicled and embellished in the issue
                    of April 28, 1851. The train left 
                        Indianapolis
                     at 3:30 P. M., according to schedule, and arrived in Pendleton at five
                    o'clock. The writer describes some of the towns along the road, and shows some of the local
                    advantages possessed by the route for both freight and passenger traffic. The account, in part, is
                    as follows: 
                        The road passes through a fine agricultural country—farms being rapidly improved,
                            new buildings meet the eye, villages are springing up on the line, and all seems quite alive
                            with active industry. Pendleton is quite a considerable town and looks business like. It is
                            located on the falls of 
                                Fall Creek
                            ; here are extensive quarries and heavy water power, the creek passing over a
                            natural dam of solid rock near twelve feet. A large amount of flour is manufactured here
                            that passes over the railroad. About a mile east of Pendleton on 
                                Fall Creek
                             is Huntsville, a smart village. Here, as at 
                                Pendleton
                            , there is ample water power and one of the best merchant mills in the state
                            doing a heavy business. Pendleton and Huntsville must always afford much freight for the
                            railroad.
                        About eight miles above Pendleton we come to Anderson, the seat of justice of 
                                Madison county
                            , located on a high and beautiful bluff of 
                            White river. The iron is partly laid from Pendleton to Anderson; the
                            road, we learn, will be opened to that place in a few weeks, with a great barbecue
                            celebration, etc. Anderson is located in the center of one of the best sections of the
                                White River valley, having at its base the great hydraulic power
                            created by the navigable feeder by which White river is thrown over a
                            bluff of 30 ft.; and being the point where the travel from the upper 
                                Wabash
                             turns as well as from the lower Mississinewa, and where it will take or leave
                            the cars, must have great advantages, and cannot fail to become a town of business and
                            growing importance. From Anderson the road runs on the south side of White
                            river eighteen miles to 
                                Muncie
                            , the county seat of 
                                Delaware County
                            , through a beautiful, settled country. On this section the road passes
                            Chesterfield, a small village five miles from Anderson, and Yorktown, a growing village,
                            located at the junction of Big Buck creek with White river. At this
                            point there is heavy water power, with merchant mills in full operation; there must be a
                            considerable freight business from both these points. We learn that the road is to be
                            completed and in operation this fall to 
                                Muncie
                            , fifty-three miles from 
                                Indianapolis
                            . 
                                Muncie
                             is the largest town on White river above 
                                Indianapolis
                            , and is no doubt destined to become a large inland town. It is surrounded by
                            one of the best wheat countries in the state, has ample water power, and steam works are
                            being constructed. This point must give a heavy business to the road. From near 
                                Muncie
                             the road runs on the north side of White river to near
                            Winchester, the county seat of 
                                Randolph county
                            , through a fine wheat and corn country, passing north of 
                                Smithfield
                            , 
                                Windsor
                             and 
                                Georgetown
                            . Winchester is a flourishing county seat, and will no doubt increase in
                            population and business rapidly, and yield a heavy local business when the road shall reach
                            that point. From Winchester the road runs to Union at the state line, about ten miles, where
                            it connects with the 
                                Pittsburg
                            , 
                                Sandusky
                             and 
                                Cleveland
                             line. Union is a new town at the junction of these railroads; and as it is ten
                            miles from Winchester and about the same distance from Greenville, it may do considerable
                            business, as it is surrounded by a fine country, and will have the benefit of the
                        railroads.
                     (Union is now Union City.)
            The article speaks also of the very low grade of 30′ to the mile which always has been a
                    great advantage for this stretch of road. The section from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to Pendleton cost $9,359 a mile to construct. (Report of President, February
                    10, 1851). On account of improved ballast, heavier and more expensive rails, angle bars to join the
                    rails together, facilities such as frogs, guard rails, rail braces and the like to strengthen the
                    track at switches and crossings, and general  improvement in
                    equipment, this cost per mile would possibly be double that amount today.
            Few railroad celebrations in the state have equalled the one given in Anderson, June 19, 1851, when
                    the first train ran into that town. An idea of the crowd may be gathered from the following in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Locomotive, June 21, 1851: 
                        Three trains went up from this city, and each was filled to the utmost. Several addresses
                            were delivered in Anderson but we were too much occupied in getting our dinner to hear them.
                            The only tavern in the place was capable of seating about thirty at a table, and there were
                            about five hundred hungry mortals anxiously awaiting their turn for the privilege of paying
                            for a dinner—we believe every person was accommodated, but some had to wait so
                            long they needed no supper. We heard of several accidents, but no serious ones. The train we
                            were in came down in eighty-five minutes running time—the distance thirty-six
                            miles.
                    
                
            Fortunately for the student of history, the correspondent of the Journal heard the
                    speeches. After estimating the crowd going from 
                        Indianapolis
                     at two thousand, including "the governor and state officers, Mayor Newcomb and
                    the city council with Downies band," he gives the following resume of the two principal
                    speeches: 
                        The governor [Joseph A. Wright] in his speech drew a comparison of present and past times in
                            the modes of conveyance. He said two whole hours had been required to come to Anderson when
                            within his recollection it took mail carriers three whole days. He urged every one to take
                            stock and aid in the construction. Oliver H. Smith responded, telling of the difficulties in
                            getting the enterprise started, and went into future prospects and benefits the construction
                            of railroads promised.
                    
                
            The "atmosphere" of the occasion has been graphically set forth as follows by
                    Forkner & Dyson: 
                        That was the day this division of the road was formally opened to traffic, and it was a big
                            feather in Anderson's cap. The train was not one of those swift-flying, luxurious
                            affairs that are the pride of so many great railway corporations of the present time. It
                            consisted of three plain, unvarnished coaches. About it there was a decided absence of show
                            or ornamentation. The seats were not upholstered in satin or  plush, but were ordinary bench-like affairs. The opening of the
                            road for travel was an event that had long been looked forward to by the people, for when at
                            last an excursion was announced to be run from 
                                Indianapolis
                            , the town made preparations for a grand gala day. Many people through this
                            section of the country had never seen a railroad train, and so anxious were they to get a
                            glimpse of the curiosity that for two days before, they rolled into town, some of them
                            coming from long distances. All the boarding houses and hotel accommodations were readily
                            taken, after which strangers began to camp about town waiting the arrival of the train. At
                            the old ford where the iron wagon bridge now spans White river and the
                            Anderson cemetery there was quite a settlement of sight-seers camped, waiting for the big
                            day to roll around. The curiosity to see the train was not confined to country people;
                            "town folks" were equally as anxious for the appearance of the
                            "covered cars." A number of Andersonians who were acquainted with the lay
                            walked out as far as Omaha, now known as McCullough's gravel pit, between this city
                            and Pendleton, in order to get the first glimpse of the great curiosity. When the steam
                            engine puffed into sight, sizzling and snorting under a load of excursionists, many
                            onlookers viewed the huge iron horse with wonder mingled with mistrust. Suddenly the
                            engineer gave a few vigorous yanks at the whistle which responded promptly in a shrill
                            voice, and that settled the curiosity of the sight-seers scattered along the track. There
                            was a general stampede to the hazel brush and swamp grass, and it is related of one man who
                            was more frightened than the others that he never stopped running until he got to Anderson.
                            The train was received in Anderson with all the "pomp and circumstance" of
                            the times; and after the curiosity of seeing a train of cars had worn away, the people
                            joined hands and had a big celebration.15
                  
                    Philip Siddall, the first agent at 
                        Anderson
                    , was also the first telegraph operator ever in the town, and possessed
                    "qualities of heart that rendered him popular with all classes of people." The
                    first depot at 
                        Anderson
                     was located on the site of the present Big Four depot.16
            
            Work on the eighteen miles from Anderson to 
                        Muncie
                     progressed more slowly, and it was nearly a year before the road was finished to that
                    town ready for traffic. Though the grading and bridging was finished to the east line of 
                        Delaware County
                     in February, 1851, when the county paid the second installment of its subscription,17 the first train did not enter 
                        Muncie
                     until May 31, 1852.
            
               
                  15
                        History of 
                                Madison County
                            , 411.
               
                  16 Forkner and Dyson, Historical Sketches of 
                                Madison County
                            , 76.
               
                  17 Kemper, History of 
                                Delaware County
                            , 91–2.
            
            
            Meanwhile the road continued to do a prosperous business while slowing up on its building progress.
                    It secured the contract of carrying the mail to Anderson and intermediate points. The harvest season
                    of 1851 meant a good grain business; and some of the other freight hauled over the road is shown by
                    the Indiana State Sentinel for the week preceding September 8, 1851, for its 
                        Indianapolis
                     terminal: 
                        Exports: 2 kegs of beer, 2 packages of books, 1 barrel of sugar, 2 bundles of leather, 1
                            marble headstone, 1 bag of twine.
                        Imports: 13 boxes of merchandise, 1 bale muslin, 1 pair of scales, 28 hides, 2 cans of lard
                            and honey, 1 coop of fowls, 1 bucket of butter.
                    
                
            The line was finished to Chesterfield, five miles beyond Anderson, by October 9, 1851, and a big
                    celebration occurred there on that day. "The day was fine" and the crowd was
                    "large and joyous". Two excursion trains ran from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to Chesterfield, leaving the station at 
                        Indianapolis
                     at 8:00 A. M. and arriving at 
                        Chesterfield
                    , a distance of forty-one miles, at 10:30. The daily accommodation train on the Big Four
                    today, the slowest passenger train on the 
                        Cleveland
                    -
                        Indianapolis
                     division, makes the same run in an hour and thirty-eight minutes. The trains made a
                    return trip to 
                        Indianapolis
                     in the evening, arriving in the city at 8:00 P. M. Hundreds made the trip, and the
                    officials were careful to see that every courtesy and convenience was shown the travellers.
                    "The president, Hon. O. H. Smith, possesing almost the power of ubiquity, was everywhere
                    his services were needed." Though a trial in which he participated kept him in 
                        Danville
                    , twenty miles from 
                        Indianapolis
                    , until ten o'clock the night before, he managed to be in Chesterfield early
                    the next morning, directing affairs "with that spirit of energy, which has characterized
                    his course throughout." The only thing to mar an otherwise perfect day was a delay caused
                    by a "slight accident", on the return to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , a locomotive running off the track at 
                        Anderson
                    . (See account of the celebration in the Indiana State Sentinel,
                    October 11, 1851.)
            The first claim on record against the road, was payment for a mare of Mr. Hunter of 
                        Marion county
                    , killed by a train about October 1, 1851. The company announced a policy of  paying for stock killed while running in fields enclosed by pits; of
                    paying half price for stock killed while running at large provided the train was being run
                    "at ordinary speed and with ordinary care"; but refusing to pay if the stock were
                    deliberately enticed to the track "by feeding or otherwise", or allowed by their
                    owners to lie upon the track.18 Manifestly, this was before the day of cattle
                    guards and wire fences.
            Depots had been built at 
                        Pendleton
                     and Anderson; the depot at 
                        Muncie
                     was "raised", after the fashion of old-time "barn
                    raisings", September 12, 1851, several months before the railroad came to the town. The
                    affair was of enough importance to be mentioned in the diary of F. E. Putnam, an old 
                        Delaware County
                     pioneer. A brick depot and shops were built in 1851 at 
                        Massachusetts
                     avenue, near the present Tenth street and 
                        Massachusetts
                     avenue depot of the Big Four, then the northeast part of 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; but when the first Union station was built in 1853, they were sold for
                    $17,500, including 1100 ft. of tracks and five acres of ground.19 The
                    depot was two stories, three hundred and seventy-six feet long, sixty feet wide, with double tracks
                    inside; and the office building along was 55′ × 30′. The shop, a
                    200′ × 100′ structure of brick, was built later; though this was
                    quite a shop establishment at the time, it seems small compared with the present extensive
                    Brightwood shops of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    -
                        Cleveland
                     division of the Big Four and the nine huge shop buildings and several large store
                    department buildings at 
                        Beech Grove
                    . By the latter part of October, 1851, the depot was ready for the roof.20
            
            President Smith's report to the directors, May 10, 1852, was somewhat different from his
                    previous reports. A few changes had taken place in the officers and board of directors. Douglas
                    McGuire had succeeded James G. Jordan as secretary, and James W. Yandes had taken the place of
                    Austin W. Morris as treasurer. Samuel V. B. Noel had replaced Thomas R. Noel as 
                        Hancock county
                    's representative on the 
                  
                     18
                            Indiana State Sentinel, Oct. 11, 1851.
                  
                     19 Dunn, Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 149–50.
                  
                     20
                            Indiana State Sentinel, Oct. 24, 1851.
               
                     board—the route runs a short distance through 
                        Hancock county
                    ; William M. Way had given place to Peter S. Miller for 
                        Randolph county
                    ; Joseph S. McClellan of Johnson county had retired, and Theophilus Paulding of 
                        Philadelphia
                     had been elected. Outside of a threat to sue delinquent subscribers, nothing
                    significant is mentioned of the finances of the road. It is evident that the matter of getting new
                    capital was increasingly difficult, from this and also newspaper accounts of the progress of the
                    railroad. Many subscribed during the excitement incident to the promotion of the road who
                    "fell down" when it came to surrendering the actual cash at the appointed time.
                    Newspaper reports indicate that the securities which the road floated failed to sell readily in the
                    dull market of 1851. Track laying from Chesterfield to 
                        Muncie
                     was suspended in October, 1851, and not resumed till the ground settled the next
                    spring. The reason assigned was that "the low waters of the 
                        Ohio
                     have kept back the iron to so late a period in the season",21 but one wonders if the finances of the road did not have something to do with it, also. Mr.
                    Smith reported with pride, however, that the carrying of the mail to Anderson had been a profitable
                    venture; that local business had increased one hundred and fifty per cent during the preceding year;
                    and that twenty thousand passengers had been carried without a single injury (Report of president,
                    May 10, 1852). Conditions, however, got better a short time afterward; the Sentinel reported, June 7, that "railroad iron has raised five dollars per ton in 
                        England
                    , and American railroad securities are in demand." Conditions were auspicious
                    when track laying was resumed.
            Progress of the railroad to 
                        Muncie
                     is shown in the diary of the 
                        Delaware County
                     pioneer, F. E. Putnam: 
                        May 28, 1852: Cars close to town.
                        May 29: Dinner at Hoon's and Davis's for railroad hands.
                        May 31: Passenger cars up for the first time.
                        June 17: Warm and cloudy in the morning with heavy showers in the eve. Railroad celebration
                            and lots of people in town, say seven thousand. Five trains down and six up, and one to York
                            (Yorktown) and back. Sample made reception speech and Smith replied.
                    
                
            
               
                  21
                        Indiana State Sentinel, Nov. 1, 1851.
            
            
            Like similar trains run for such celebrations, the trains consisted of open flat cars with improvised
                    plank seats. The heavy rain in the evening caught the crowds on the trains and the crowd in 
                        Muncie
                    , 
                        and dampened their clothes, but not their ardor, as the celebration was a very enthusiastic
                            one. Many were soaked through and through, and the ladies and children presented a sad and
                            ludicrous sight.22
                  
                    
                
            Work on the line was pushed more rapidly than before on the last section from 
                        Muncie
                     to Union City, so that the work was finished by the close of 1852—perhaps
                    the easier market influenced this condition. We read in the Sentinel, November 3,
                    1852: 
                        The cars on the 
                                Indianapolis
                             and Bellefontaine railroad are now running to Winchester in 
                                Randolph county
                            . The road will be completed to the state line by the first of December.
                     This prediction did not come true, however, by about a month.
            Unfortunately for Winchester, there were "crooks" in those days as well as today.
                    Some men who had an option on some land north of Winchester, and also an influence with the
                    legislature, had the charter worded to read that the road should be built "directly east
                    from 
                        Muncie
                     to Union City". The "joker" was that this would make the
                    route a mile and a half north of the main part of Winchester and through the land on which these men
                    held an option. 
                        The scheme was discovered at the very last moment, by some citizens of Winchester, and the
                            bill was amended so as to compel the railroad company to build the road through Winchester.
                            A reference to the map of the county will show that the course of the road was changed
                            southeast at the west line of White river township.23
                  
                    
                
            The Greenville and Miami railroad was being pushed at the same time from Greenville to Union City.
                    Later this afforded a connection with 
                        Dayton
                     and Bellefontaine, so that the early dreams of the builders of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and Bellefontaine railroad were realized. The original plan of the 
                  
                     22 Reminiscences of William Jackson, told in Dr. Kemper, History of 
                                    Delaware County
                                , 91–2.
                  
                     23 Smith and Driver, Past and Present of 
                                    Randolph County
                                , 803–5.
               
                     Greenville and Miami builders was to build the road from
                    Greenville to Winchester; but the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and Bellefontaine promoters induced them to build it to the state line and join there
                    with their own road. The building rivalry of these two roads has previously been mentioned, and grew
                    in intensity as both neared Union City.
            About November 25, 1852, the construction crews of both lines were about three miles from the state
                    line, but neither knew the whereabouts of the other until the construction engine of the
                    Bellefontaine road blew its whistle and it was answered immediately by the whistle of the 
                        Ohio
                     road's construction engine. The result of this "exhilirating and
                    important incident" was that the hands on both crews "rended the air with their
                        shouts".24 The Bellefontaine road had over five hundred men working
                    on the line to rush its completion.25 The 
                        Ohio
                     road finished its work with its rails about a foot on Indiana soil on Christmas day,
                    1852; and the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and Bellefontaine completed their line and joined its tracks with the other road a few
                    days later. The first through passenger train from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                  Dayton, Ohio
               , by way of Union City and Greenville, was run on January
                    24, 1853.26 The historians and the contemporary press do not record whether or
                    not the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and Bellefontaine officials made good their banter and tendered a dinner to the
                    Greenville and Miami officials, who finished their line first; but knowing the sportsmanship of
                    Oliver Hampton Smith and the others, the presumption is that it was given, and that it was what
                    Robert J. Burdette would call a "howling success".
            R. A. Wilson was appointed agent at 
                        Union City
                     for the two roads. A round house subsequently was erected at 
                        Union City
                    , which became, of course, the eastern terminal of the road; but all the main shop work
                    was done at 
                        Indianapolis
                    —only one mechanic for light repairs was stationed at 
                        Union City
                    . No extensive yards were built at any intermediate points, so that the regular train
                    crews did all their own switching.
            
               
                  24
                        Indiana State Sentinel, Nov. 29, 1852.
               
                  25
                        Indiana State Sentinel, Nov. 1852.
               
                  26 Smith and Driver, Past and Present of 
                                Randolph County
                            , 805.
            
            
            The equipment and operation of the road naturally was crude when compared with that of today. George
                    S. Cottman says: 
                        A locomotive had at first neither cow-catcher nor cab, weighed perhaps ten to thirteen tons,
                            and was capable of hauling twelve or fifteen cars holding three tons each. Twenty miles an
                            hour for passenger trains was a high rate of speed.27
                  
                    Today the so-called "Mikado" engine, the latest type of freight locomotive
                    in use on the Big Four, weighs complete 334,000 pounds, and the extra large engines used for
                    mountain climbing on the Southern Pacific weigh over 600,000 pounds. A train of ninety or one
                    hundred cars on the Big Four is nothing unusual today, and on articles of ordinary value and bulk, a
                    shipment of less than 24,000 to 36,000 pounds is not recognized as a car load. Thomas W. Love, of
                    2743 Bellefontaine street, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , a retired conductor on the 
                        Cleveland
                    -
                        Indianapolis
                     division of the Big Four, says the box cars of that day were only 28 feet long, and an
                    ordinary "load" would fill two or three cars. Small box cars, flat cars and
                    gondolas were used, but such special makes as refrigerator and hopper cars were unknown, as well as
                    such modern appliances as air brakes, steam lubrication, electric headlights, automatic couplers
                    with pin lifters at the side of the car. A modern tender carries enough coal to last between regular
                    coal docks, and enough water to last between regular watering stations—the water is fed
                    to the engine by means of a steam injector and a stoker has even replaced hand firing on the larger
                    engines. In the old days stops were made 
                        at some wayside stream or pool to replenish the water supply by dipping up with leathern
                            buckets that were carried on hooks at the side of the tender.28
                  
                    Engines burned wood in those days, which was carried to the tender from ricks along the
                    route. People sold wood to the railroad company by the cord and piled it in the ricks.
            
               
                  27 Internal Improvements in Indiana, 179.
               
                  28 Cottman, Internal Improvements in Indiana,
                    179.
            
            
            
            
               EARLY LOCOMOTIVES.
            
            
            
                    Great stories are told of the dishonesty of the people cording this wood. It is said that one
                        stump west of Farmland was regularly corded and measured in the body of the wood for something
                        like five years before the company found it out. The engines threw sparks and set fire to a
                        great many piles of wood, and the company gave free passages to many people who fought fire for
                        them. One man and woman had a lifetime pass from Farmland to 
                            Indianapolis
                         because of the great amount of fuel they had saved the road by putting out fire.29
               
                
            The engines also emitted soot in such quantities at times that the train crew was almost bathed in
                    it.
            Mr. Love commenced railroading in the early sixties, 
                        kicking links and pins loose from the frozen ground, helping put the engine on the turn-table
                            and make the rear end face the other way (this is now done by electric motor) and then
                            helped to pile wood on the tender until she looked like a log house.30
                  
                    He came to the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and Bellefontaine, then the "Bee Line" in 1868, so he knows all about
                    railroading even in 1850–3. He likes to talk about the old railroading days, and his
                    reminiscences are always interesting.
            
                    Whenever the engineer needed more wood he had a regular signal which he gave on the whistle, and
                        then we would stop the train and all "wood up". Passenger trains were few and
                        unreliable then, so if a man on another engine or train crew wanted to
                        "dead-head" back to 
                            Indianapolis
                         he usually rode a freight. We always made the "dead-heads" help
                        "wood up". Once a "dead-head" with white gloves was on the
                        train, but that made no difference. He had too help "wood up", white gloves
                        and all.
                
            Engines then ran on a steam pressure of about one hundred and twenty pounds; and it is related that
                    an old time engineer who once got on a modern locomotive to run it, jumped off when he saw the steam
                    gauge reading over three hundred pounds, declaring the engine was about to "blow
                    up"! Weights instead of pop-valve were used to control steam pressure; but going up hill,
                    the regulator was heavily weighted and the pressure was not known.
            Smith and Driver have described some of the difficulties of early railroading on the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and Bellefontaine as 
                  
                     29 Smith and Driver, Past and Present of 
                                    Randolph County
                                , 803–5.
                  
                     30 Tribute to Mr. Love in The Railway Conductor,
                            April, 1923, p. 211.
               
                     well as the excursion train that celebrated the completion of
                    the road to Union City: 
                        The road ran a free excursion from Union City to 
                                Indianapolis
                             and hundreds of citizens availed themselves of the opportunity of taking a free
                            ride, at the same time visiting for the first time the capital of their state. The excursion
                            started about midnight and people went for miles to meet the train. No stations were
                            established, and the trains were stopped anywhere upon being flagged. This was true of the
                            road for a great many years. All one had to do to stop the train was to flag it in the
                            daytime with any kind of a flag, or wave a light at night. The story is told that a little
                            after daylight a woman came running out on the track waving her apron; the engineer stopped
                            the train and the woman said to the conductor: "John wants to go, but he
                            hasn't finished his breakfast; just wait on him a few minutes and he will be
                            ready." We don't know what the conductor said, but John took the trip,
                            just the same. No coaches were on this train, simply flat cars were used and boards placed
                            across the top of the side-boards for seats. Some of the cars had branches of trees put over
                            them to provide a shade. This was a wonderful experience in the history of the county as
                            well as the experience of the people who made the first trip. For many years a regular
                            schedule was almost impossible; a train would come "about" on time,
                            usually the "about" ended by the train being about two or three hours
                                late.31
                  
                    
                
            Mr. Love remembers well these "good old days" and their difficulties. They had a
                    telegraph, with stations in the principal towns along the route, and dispatchers to keep up with
                    progress of the train by telegraph as it passed these stations; but there were no telephones along
                    the route for the conductor, as at present, no block signals, and single instead of double tracks.
            
                    When it came night before we reached a certain station, we would lay over on the first convenient
                        siding until the train was fifteen minutes late, then start on foot for the next station, so
                        they could hold up trains from the other direction until we got there. Sometimes, when they
                        would notice our train was late they would send a light engine (an engine and tender without any
                        cars attached) out after us. Sometimes we even spent the whole night on the siding.
                
            Conductors did not have to look after the modern trucks and underframes which support a freight car,
                    for the cars of that 
                  
                     31 Smith and Driver, Past and Present in 
                                    Randolph County
                                , 803–5.
               
                     day were hardly more than wagons or coaches equipped with
                    flanged wheels for travel on rails. However, they used hand brakes exclusively, and these had to be
                    operated by the train crew. The cars were connected by draw-bars which were often difficult to
                    adjust on account of the lack of uniformity in car and draw-bar construction; and later by links and
                    pins. The draw-bar and link and pin had to be connected and disconnected by the train crew, and the
                    running between cars thus required caused a great many accidents. Naturally Mr. Love has the highest
                    of praise for the air brake and automatic coupler. When flat cars were loaded with lumber or some
                    other material that projected over the sides, the brake had to be adjusted in such a manner that it
                    was useless.
            
                    These couplings were flimsy, and we never knew when one of them would break. In my early days of
                        railroading we had a clothesline running from the caboose to the locomotive and attached to a
                        gong, so it would ring the gong if the train broke in two and the engineer could stop. We
                        carried a supply of links and pins in the caboose for emergency purposes, and had signals, so we
                        could let the man at the back end of the train know how many links or pins we wanted; then he
                        could get them from the caboose and meet us half way, thus saving considerable time. In the
                        winter snow-drifts added to our troubles, and we would be snow-bound at times for quite a while.
                        You can imagine the time we had "wooding up" the tender in a snow-drift.
                
            It is even handed down in tradition that at a certain pool along the road the train crews would stop
                    long enough to take a swim, and that sometimes they took along their "women folks"
                    and stopped the train while the latter gathered blackberries. The crudeness of the trains of that
                    period is well illustrated by the following from Locomotive, August 13, 1853:
                        
                        The evening train on the Bellefontaine railroad ran over a cow on Tuesday night near 
                                Muncie
                            , that threw the locomotive and baggage car off the track and broke the front
                            passenger car. No one on the train was injured.
                    
                
            Unfortunately, few records of the company appear to have been preserved, so we are forced to rely
                    upon newspaper accounts chiefly to learn of some of its finances. According  to Locomotive, May 10, 1851, over a half-million
                    dollars worth of stock had been subscribed, and later, when the contract for laying the track
                    between Chesterfield and Union City was let to Daniel Yandes and Alfred Harrison, the amount was
                    made payable in the stock of the company.32 The company's statement,
                    published in Locomotive, May 3, 1851, shows freight receipts, $3729,
                    and passenger receipts, $2278, with a gross tonnage of over 11,000,000 pounds. The report
                    for May, published in Locomotive, June 7, 1851, shows total receipts of
                    $6,669, a gross tonnage of 9,817,228 pounds, including 56,662 bushels of wheat and 5841
                    barrels of flour. The number of passengers carried was 5976. As practically all this business then
                    was with Pendelton, we may figure the average rate on freight was about four cents on the hundred
                    pounds, a mere fraction of the rate today, though the cost of nearly everything then and now holds
                    about the same proportion. After the road had been completed and through railroad passage to 
                        Dayton
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                     made possible, the fare, as advertised in Locomotive, February 26,
                    1853, from 
                        Indianapolis
                     was $3.50 to 
                        Dayton
                     and $4.50 to 
                        Cincinnati
                    , though this had been cut by the last of September to $2.25 to 
                        Dayton
                     and $2.75 to 
                        Cincinnati
                    . Adams & Co. (later Adams Express Co.) conducted an express service on the line
                    after August 9, 1852, and promised delivery of goods in five days from 
                        Boston
                    , four days from 
                        New York
                    , and three and one-half days from 
                        Philadelphia
                     and 
                        Baltimore
                    .33
            
            As its promoters had foreseen, the railroad was an immense economic benefit to the district that it
                    served. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel a great many years ago said of it: 
                        It is impossible to estimate the advantage this road has been to 
                                Indianapolis
                            . For several years a great deal of stock of the Bellefontaine was owned here,
                            and the road was run directly in the interest of the city. But the greatest benefit
                            conferred by the road has been in the large amount of travel and business brought here and
                            which has in one way or another done much to build up the city.34
                  
                    
                    
                  
                     32
                            Sentinel, Feb. 21, 1852.
                  
                     33
                            Locomotive, Feb. 12, 1853.
                  
                     34 Geo. S. Cottman, Internal Improvements in
                            Indiana, 175.
               
                    
                    
                    
                  OLD UNION STATION, INDIANAPOLIS.
               
                     The Union Station built on the site of the present one in 1853
                    was a great convenience to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and was used for passenger traffic by all the roads entering 
                        Indianapolis
                    . A central system of operation was devised for handling the traffic of the different
                    roads without confusion, which was the beginning of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Union railroad of today. Col. Morris, chief engineer of the Bellefontaine, was also
                    chief engineer for the construction of the tracks and buildings. A large bronze tablet is now in the
                    Union Station at 
                        Indianapolis
                     showing this old station in bas-relief as well as the principal men who put the
                    co-operative system into effect; President O. H. Smith of the Bellefontaine, President John Brough,
                    of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Madison
                    , and President Chauncey Rose of the 
                        Terre Haute
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     railroad companies, besides William H. Jackson, secretary of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Union railway for forty-seven years and the first ticket agent for the combined roads
                    at the station. (See 0. H. Smith's description of the station and the system in his Early Indiana Trials and Sketches, 424).
            The daily mail and the transportation facilities of the road played an important part in the early
                    growth and development of 
                        Anderson
                     and 
                        Muncie
                    , which were villages of a few hundreds when it was built. 
                        Muncie
                     in particular grew from four hundred to nine hundred in population within two years
                    after the completion of the railroad, while 
                        Delaware County
                     increased five thousand in population within the succeeding decade; and "the
                    spirit of progress was felt by all."35
            
            Union City owes its inception and early growth to the Bellefontaine railroad. 0. H. and Jeremiah
                    Smith realized the possibilities of a town at the state-line which would serve as a terminal for the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and Bellefontaine railroad and the Greenville and Miami, and they also secured the
                    promise, later fulfilled, of a railroad from Union City to 
                        Columbus
                    . Accordingly, they bought a tract of land there in May, 1849, and had it surveyed and
                    platted by the next December. Of course, its growth was rapid, but 
                  
                     35 Dr. Kemper, History of 
                                    Delaware County
                                , 112.
               
                    
                    
                        the demon of liquor proved itself worthy of its ancient name on its first introduction into
                            the town, created a great row and caused the discharge of seventeen railroad hands soon
                            after that grog shop was opened. That saloon and another, by means of some pretty energetic
                            measures, were obliged to "dry up".36
                  
                    
                
            Some of the smaller communities also enjoyed a substantial growth. Two or three additions were made
                    to Pendleton late in 1850, and the town was incorporated December 24, 1853.37 After the building of
                    the railroad, 
                        Chesterfield experienced several years of unusual busines activity. Large shipments of
                            agricultural products were made from the town, and the merchants extended their trade over a
                            large district of the surrounding country.38
                  
                    The growth of Winchester, though slow up to about 1845, began to pick up with the coming of
                    the railroad. 
                        Business began to improve, new houses were built, streets were made better and the entire
                            attitude of its citizenship became more progressive.39
                  
                    The railroad was the making of Fortville, in 
                        Hancock county
                    , and in later years McCordsville, another thriving town in the same county, and built
                    along the line.
            One town, however, on the railroad remains a "town of dreams unrealized." This is
                    Oaklandon, 14 miles northeast of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , named in memory of the great forest oaks which were felled there to make way for the
                    railroad. With the advent of the road, the place having already been on the Pendleton pike, John
                    Emery in 1849 
                        laid out streets and cross streets for a pretentious town that would accommodate hundreds of
                            homes, stores, churches, schools, factories, mills, and even exporters and importers.
                    
                
            However, it became a prosperous country town and no more; and today it is a pleasant, fairly active
                    village of about three hundred and fifty.40 
                        Huntsville
                    , 
                        Madison county
                    , appears to 
                  
                     36 Smith and Driver, Past and Present of 
                                    Randolph County
                                , 1016–8.
                  
                     37 John L. Forkner, History of 
                                    Madison County
                                , 124.
                  
                     38
                            Ibid, 130.
                  
                     39 Smith and Driver, Past and Present of 
                                    Randolph County
                                , 1030.
                  
                     40
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 News, Feb. 10, 1923.
               
                     have been a town of considerable activity in the early days of
                    the railroad, though there is not even a station there now. In a list of stations given in Locomotive, May 27, 1851, the others following are not in existence, at least
                    under the names they bore then: Delzell's, Lanesville, Alfontville, between 
                        Indianapolis
                     and Pendelton, and Smithfield and Mucksville between 
                        Muncie
                     and the State Line.
            The road prospered and grew under the presidency of John Brough, Alfred Harrison, Calvin Fletcher, S.
                    Watt and other prominent pioneer business men of Indiana who succeeded Mr. Smith. In its Early days
                    it was run by the 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     with rolling stock of the latter, but operated its own road after 1853. (According to
                    Locomotive, May 7, 1853, the road would thereafter use its own rolling stock, and after October 1,
                    1853, according to the 
                        New York
                     Central Lines Annual Reports for 1917, p. 448, it operated its own line.) Finally the
                    road became subjected to a series of consolidations, part of a general movement which set in after
                    its building and has continued to the present. The following facts are taken from the 
                        New York
                     Central Lines Annual Reports for 1917, pp. 448–9:
            The name was changed to the 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 
                        Pittsburg
                     and 
                        Cleveland
                     by general law in Indiana of February 1, 1855. December 20, 1864, it was consolidated
                    with the Bellefontaine and Indiana, which had built a line from Galion, 
                        Ohio
                    , to Union by way of Bellefontaine, Sidney and Ansonia, and the name changed to the
                    Bellefontaine Railway company. A joint committee, representing both roads, had operated them
                    together for the previous eight years. Again, it was consolidated with the 
                  Cleveland, Columbus
                and 
                        Cincinnati
                     Railroad company, owning various 
                        Ohio
                     lines, on May 16, 1868, forming the 
                  Cleveland, Columbus, Cincinnati
                and 
                        Indianapolis
                     Railway company, better known as the "Bee Line". (See also Dunn, Greater 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 149–50). Finally this road consolidated with the
                            
                  Cincinnati, Indianapolis, St. Louis
                and 
                        Chicago
                    , and the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                     in June, 1889, to form the 
                  Cleveland,
                            Cincinnati, Chicago
                and 
                        St. Louis
                    , or Big Four.
            
            The early builders of the Bellefontaine railroad dreamed of it as a link in a chain of roads which
                    would connect 
                  St. Louis, Indianapolis
               , 
                        Sandusky
                    , and 
                        Cleveland
                     with the east. Now, the 
                        New York
                     Central lines, of which the Big Four is a part, connect all these cities and
                            
                  Chicago, Detroit, Cincinnati
               , 
                        Buffalo
                    , 
                  Albany, Boston, New York
                and many
                    other cities as well, so that the pioneers of 1849–53 "builded better than they
                    knew."
            THE LAFAYETTE and INDIANAPOLIS RAILROAD
            
               
                        Lafayette
                    , even from pioneer times, has been one of the important cities of Indiana. Nature has
                    been exceptionally generous in the facilities and resources bestowed on it - it is on almost a
                    direct line from 
                        Chicago
                     to 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; it is in the heart of the rich prairie country of northwest Indiana;
                    and—even more important in the days of water transportation and water power—it
                    is near the convergence of the Tip-pecanoe and Wabash
                    rivers. Not a great distance above it the early French explorers made their famous portage from the 
                        St. Joseph
                     to the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     and a few miles below was the site of the old French fort and trading post, Ouiatenon.
                    After the French coureurs du bois came the American pioneers, and they were quick
                    to see the advantages of the location and build a thriving pioneer town. They also were far-sighted
                    enough to realize the importance of internal improvements in building up commercial prosperity. Thus
                    a system of roads, even in the Thirties, connected 
                        Lafayette
                     with 
                        Chicago
                     on the north and 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Vincennes
                     on the south. 
                        Lafayette
                     became a market for counties far distant, whose inhabitants took full advantage of
                    these roads.41
            
            Jesse S. Birch, of 
                        Oxford
                    , Indiana, has given us some vivid pictures of the traffic on these old roads.42 The road from 
                        Vincennes
                     was built in the early Thirties, and it seems that the route from 
                        Indianapolis
                     went through 
                        Crawfordsville
                     and 
                  
                     41 Pioneers hauled wheat from 
                                Parke County
                             to L.afayette, sold it for sixty cents a bushel, and hauled back merchandise.
                            See the writer's "Some Features of the History of 
                                Parke County
                            ," Indiana Magazine of History, 1916, p. 146.
                  
                     42
                            Indiana Magazine of History, 1914, p. 396–8.
               
                     joined the 
                        Vincennes
                     road on the river at 
                        Williamsport
                    .43 The road went north to the state line near Raub, and thence to 
                        Chicago
                    . The so-called 
                        Lafayette
                     road, a state road approved by act of February 7, 1835, was an extension of an older
                    road to meet the 
                        Vincennes
                     road near Parish Grove. Part of it was the historic trail over which Gen. Jacob Walker
                    marched his troops in 1832 to the Black Hawk war only to be "met by a courier who informed
                    him that the Indians had been pacified. The troops returned by the same trail." Not only
                    commerce, but hunting parties and prairie schooners carrying pioneers westward thronged these roads.
            Says Mr. Birch, 
                        The 
                                Chicago
                             road was a historic thorofare in its time, it being the main artery of
                            communication for travel from 
                                Indianapolis
                             and 
                                Vincennes
                             to the thriving city on the lake. When 
                                Chicago
                             became a live stock market thousands of cattle and horses were driven over it.
                            In places it was from thirty to forty rods wide, the teamsters leaving worn places to find
                            better footing, especially during a wet time. The trail could be followed by the timothy and
                            blue grass that grew along the way, having been started from the seed that had been dropped
                            by teamsters going to and from 
                                Chicago
                             or the land hunters from 
                        Ohio, Kentucky
                      and 
                                Virginia
                             on their way to the northwest. In the fall many hauled apples from southern
                            Indiana to 
                                Chicago
                             and many were the small boys who begged pennies from their mothers to buy the
                            luscious fruit. Evidence of the old trail still remains, the beaten path in places being
                            easily discernible across the fields.
                    
                
            However, the progressive pioneers had not long hauled their produce by road until talk of a railroad
                    began. This was first noticeable in 1832, when all over the state, 
                        for some reason not clear, there was a sudden, not to say spasmodic, impulse toward this form
                            of internal improvement (railroads).44
                  
                    A railroad was chartered in that year by the legislature to run from 
                        Madison
                     to 
                        Lafayette
                     by way of 
                        Columbus
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; capital stock was fixed at $1,000,000 in shares of fifty dollars each; and
                    construction was to be started within 
                  
                     43 E. J. Benton in his 
                        
                                    Wabash
                                 Trade Route, p. 62, refers to a state road from 
                                Lafayette
                             to 
                                Indianapolis
                             abandoned after an expenditure of $73,142.87.
                  
                     44 Cottman, Internal Improvements in Indiana, p.
                            150.
               
                     three years and finished within ten years. The legislature of
                    1835 went even further, and made provision for a survey of the route, which was conducted by an
                    engineer named Edwin Schenck and three assistants; and the Internal Improvements Bill of 1836
                    appropriated $1,300,000 for the road. The route from 
                        Indianapolis
                     direct to 
                        Lafayette
                     was considered, but for some reason a route by way of 
                        Danville
                     and 
                        Crawfordsville
                     was preferred. The engineers reported an estimate of $2,–351,697,
                    or an average of $14,721.11 a mile from 
                        Madison
                     to 
                        Lafayette
                     by this route, which time proved was a close one. However, they appear to have counted
                    too heavily on the cost of transportation of material and not heavily enough on the cost of the
                    material itself; for they figured that if a single track were laid and utilized for hauling free the
                    materials for construction, a second track could be laid for $3,–742.63 a
                        mile.45 Then came the panic of 1837 and the collapse of the state's
                    "iridescent dream" of a great system of internal improvements. No more was heard
                    of the railroad for several years.
            Another factor entering into the commercial relations of 
                        Lafayette
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     before the railroad was finally built was the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie canal, which was completed to 
                        Lafayette
                     by 1844. Commencing at 
                        Toledo
                     and following closely the ancient French portage from the head waters of the Maumee to
                    the head waters of the 
                        Wabash
                    ,46 it then kept within a few miles of the 
                        Wabash
                     the rest of its course to its southern terminus at 
                        Evansville
                    . The southern end of the canal was never prosperous,47 but the part
                    around 
                        Lafayette
                     was very flourishing for years, serving chiefly to open trade with the eastern centers
                    by means of the Great Lakes and the Erie canal. A pioneer, during a single day of 1844, counted four
                    hundred wagons unloading at 
                        Lafayette
                    .48
            
            
               
                  45 The foregoing facts concerning the proposed 
                     Madison, Indianapolis
                   and 
                            Lafayette
                         railroad are taken from Ralph Blank's "Early Railroad Building in
                        Indiana," submitted as a Master's thesis at Indiana university. It is in
                        typewritten form at the State Library, but the pages are not numbered, so page references are
                        not given.
               
                  46 B. J. Benton, 
                     
                                Wabash
                             Trade Route, 11.
               
                  47
                        Ibid, 105.
               
                  48
                        Ibid., p. 101.
            
            
            It is significant that when the 
                        Lafayette
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     Railroad company was chartered it was for the purpose of extending the 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     railroad to 
                        Lafayette
                    —still preserving the old idea of the Thirties. This was January 19, 1846;
                    and like all railroad charters of the period, it was granted by act of the legislature with the
                    approval of the governor. The following were authorized to open subscription books in communities
                    along the proposed right-of-way: Jacob Walker, William F. Reynolds, William Heaton, John Purdue
                    (after whom Purdue University was named), James H. Major, Joseph S. Hanna, John McCutcheon, Philip
                    Foresman, of Tip-pecanoe county; Silas S. White, John Pearce, John J. Nesbit, Jesse L. Benson,
                    William Zion, Samuel S. Strong, William P. Davis, Robert Olive and George Cook of 
                        Boone county
                    ; and Hugh O'Neal and Aaron Gillespie of 
                        Marion county
                    . Subscriptions were to be payable in labor, money or materials, and were not to exceed
                    $900,000. When $20,000 was subscribed, it was ordered that an election of
                    directors was to be held. Within five years from the passage of the act, stockholders were
                    "Liable for the payment of all dues to laborers." By acts of the legislature
                    approved February 16, 1848, and January 15, 1849, the charters of the 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Lafayette
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     were changed so as to make them entirely independent of each other. The latter then
                    proceeded to organize in regular style and made their first letting of work on the building of the
                    line, October 12, 1848.49
            
            In the matter of finances, in a time when poor financing wrecked many a railroad company, the 
                        Lafayette
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     promoters worked along careful, prudent lines. They did not attempt construction until
                    a large portion of their stock was subscribed. J. P. Dunn, while speaking of the excellent financing
                    of the road,50 also calls attention to the fact that it was
                    "practically a local enterprise, as most of the early 
                        Indianapolis
                     railroads were," and that stock was "subscribed liberally all along
                    the line."51 That some eastern capitalists 
                  
                     49 Report of President and Directors for 1851.
                  
                     50
                            Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 153.
                  
                     51 Special article in Claybaugh's History of 
                                    Clinton County
                                , 234.
               
                     may have had an interest in the road, as well, is indicated by
                    the fact that Nathan H. Stockwell, of 
                        New York
                     City, was one of the directors in 1851.52 Unlike the Bellefontaine
                    road, it was not aided by county subscriptions. The only aid it received outside of private
                    subscriptions and loans was from the city of 
                        Lafayette
                    . Interest ran very high in that city in the road, and the legislature passed a local
                    law approved February 13, 1851, allowing the "town of 
                        Lafayette
                    " to subscribe for three thousand shares of stock in the company. Corporate
                    bonds of the city, with a rate of interest not to exceed seven per cent, were to be issued and given
                    to the company in payment, 
                        said bonds to be negotiable and may be made payable to holder or bearer and may pass by
                            delivery after being endorsed by said railroad company agent they may in that behalf
                            appoint.
                    This subscription was made contingent on a municipal election being held at 
                        Lafayette
                     to vote on it. The subscription carried by a decisive vote, and $226,000 in
                    bonds were authorized for that purpose, bearing an annual interest rate of seven per cent.53
            
            Although the iron was not laid until 1851-2, it was bought and paid for before that time. The iron
                    industry in this country was a very small affair, and mention has already been made that the
                    Bellefontaine road purchased their rails in 
                        England
                    , bringing them up the 
                        Mississippi
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     from 
                        New Orleans
                    . The 
                        Lafayette
                     people bought five thousand gross tons of iron T-rail in 
                        Wales
                     and brought it all the way to 
                        Lafayette
                     by water—to 
                        New York
                     by ocean, thence by the Hudson and the Erie canal to the Great Lakes, and from 
                        Toledo
                    , on Lake Erie, to 
                        Lafayette
                     by the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie canal.54
            
            Even then, a continuous drive was made to provide all the necessary means for construction, and in
                    1851–2 the 
                        Indianapolis
                     papers urged the people to support this road. January 15, 1849, the governor signed a
                    bill authorizing the road 
                  
                     52 Report of President and Directors for 1851.
                  
                     53 Report of President and Directors for 1851.
                  
                     54 Report of President and Directors for 1851.
               
                     to borrow money "from any person or persons or
                    corporate body", at a rate of interest to be agreed upon, and granted them the right to
                    sell bonds and other obligations of the road "for the purpose of raising money or procuring
                    material." A bond issue followed, the details of which will be given later. It will be
                    noted that the state at that time was under the old constitution of 1816, and all local matters
                    pertaining to the various railroads were subjects for legislation by the General Assembly. This
                    practice stopped with the adoption of the present constitution in 1851, when such local laws were
                    made unconstitutional.
            Even before the iron was laid, a site for a depot was provided in 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; we read in Locomotive, August 10, 1850: 
                        The depot for the 
                                Lafayette
                             and 
                                Indianapolis
                             railroad has been located during the past week in the northwest part of the
                            city on the block east of and between the canal and the barn of Mr. James Blake;
                    and that it connected with the other roads coming into the city "by a union
                    track". This site was at North street and the Canal; and though in the northwest part of 
                        Indianapolis
                     then, it is practically down-town today.
            The method of construction of the road was practically the same as that used on the Bellefontaine
                    road—longitudinal sills on topi of ballast, and cross-ties, about six feet apart, on top
                    of these to support the rail. The gauge was four feet, eight and one-half inches, at that time the
                    standard Indiana gauge, but now known as the "narrow gauge;" and the rail was
                    wrought iron, weighing 55 pounds to the yard.55 As the rails came by canal to 
                        Lafayette
                    , and as the chief promoters of the road lived there, including the president, Albert S.
                    White, construction proceeded from that city to 
                        Indianapolis
                    . As the work on the superstructure neared 
                        Indianapolis
                     the interest in the capital grew, and we find the following in the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Sentinel in June, 1851:56
                    
                  
                     55 Report of President and Directors, 1851.
                  
                     56 The same advertisement appeared in other 
                                Indianapolis
                             papers also, for several weeks.
               
                    
                    
                        
                     
                                Lafayette
                             and 
                                Indianapolis
                             stockholders will please note that the work on this road is now rapidly
                            progressing between 
                                Lebanon
                             and 
                                Indianapolis
                            , as two-thirds of the work is now finished. Contracts have been made for the
                            cross-ties and the timber for bridges will soon be contracted for. The iron has been
                            purchased and paid for, and will be delivered to 
                                Lafayette
                             in a short time, when the laying of the track will be immediately commenced and
                            finished as soon as possible; and we have every assurance that the cars will run to 
                                Lebanon
                             early in the fall. As money will be needed, it will be necessary for you to pay
                            up your installments promptly as they become due, to James Blake of 
                                Indianapolis
                            . In September last the board directed that the installments should commence in
                            October, 1850, and five dollars on each share be paid every ninety days. We hope the
                            stockholders will feel the necessity of paying the installments promptly as heavy estimates
                            will be to meet between this and the first of July. The work will now be prosecuted to a
                            speedy conclusion to this city, early next spring.
                        ALBERT S. WHITE,
                            President.
                  
                    
                
            During the latter part of August, Mr. White made a trip to 
                        New York
                     to purchase three locomotives with all equipments necessary for thirty cars.57 It was expected that at that time the iron would be received in the course of
                    a month, and that the unfinished portion of the road would "be ready by the time the iron
                    is received."58 J. H. Tucker, a "practical engineer from 
                        Boston
                    ", arrived in 
                        Lafayette
                     late in September, 1851, to await the arrival of two of the locomotives from 
                        Toledo
                    . The 
                        Lafayette
                     Courier, which duly announced his arrival, at the same time stated that 
                        a temporary track from the main road above the sections now being worked will be laid to the
                            canal (The 
                                Wabash
                             and Erie canal) for the conveyance of the locomotives and iron. Mr. Tucker
                            thinks only two weeks will be required to place the steam steeds upon the track ready to do
                            the bidding of their conductors.59
                  
                    
                
            The work of laying the rail started late in 1851, and the following appeared in the 
                        Lafayette
                     Courier, December 27, 1851. In those days it was common practice to give an editor a
                    free ride on a new railroad in order to get a flattering "write-up". This
                    particular writer's account follows: 
                  
                     57
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Journal, quoted in Locomotive, Aug. 23, 1851.
                  
                     58
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Journal, quoted in Locomotive, Aug. 23, 1851.
                  
                     59 Quoted in Locomotive, Sept. 20, 1851.
               
                    
                    
                        We had the pleasure of a ride on the 
                                Lafayette
                             railroad yesterday, in company with several of our citizens, by invitation of
                            the president, Hon. A. S. White. The track on the main line of the road is laid about six
                            miles extending into the Wildcat 
                                Prairie
                            . For several miles the road is on a straight line, across a level plain, is
                            very substantially and smoothly built, affording as delightful a ride as could be imagined.
                            The work is being pushed on with dispatch, from eighty to one hundred rods being laid with a
                            T-rail per day. The work of grading on sections 2 and 3 is progressing rapidly. Two
                            locomotives are on the track and another to be set in motion in the spring. An abundance of
                            iron is on hand to lay the track to Thorntown in 
                                Boone county
                            , or to keep all the hands, that can be profitably employed, at work until more
                            can arrive from 
                                Toledo
                             in the spring. The road probably will be in running order to 
                                Indianapolis
                             from Dorgy's Run, one and one-half miles below town by the 4th of
                            July, and entirely finished by the last of September, 1852. When completed, may the road
                            continue forever a memorial of the enterprise of its projector, the president.
                    
                
            Meanwhile, the question had arisen of the best line into 
                        Indianapolis
                     considering the fact that the depot had been located on the land of James Blake, one of
                    its chief promoters, at North street and the canal. Accordingly, the company petitioned the city
                    council for the right to run the road along the east bank of the canal, promising 
                        to keep the street and crossings in good repair, to construct culverts where necessary, and
                            comply with the city ordinances;
                    the route to intersect North street between 
                        Mississippi
                     street (now Senate avenue) and the canal, bearing thence to the canal which it strikes
                    at or near the crossing of Indiana avenue; thence following the east bank of the canal to 
                        Georgia
                     street, thence to the depot of the Indiana and 
                        Terre Haute
                     railroad.
            The petition was granted by order of the city council under date of November 18, 1851, signed by D.
                    V. Culley, president, and countersigned by Caleb Scudder, mayor, with a fine of not less than five
                    dollars nor more than five hundred dollars provided for a violation of the agreement.
            The track in due time was constructed along this route, though the 
                        Terre Haute
                     road refused to change its tracks to facilitate the junction.60
                    
                        Indianapolis
                     at that time was a 
                  
                     60
                            Locomotive, Oct. 25, 1852.
               
                     town of about 10,000;61 but as the city
                    grew and means of travel became faster, this route became dangerous,62 as shown
                    by the terrible wreck of the Purdue university football special in 1903. The route then was changed
                    so as to enter the city from the west and come into the Union Station over the Belt railroad; but
                    the Big Four still operates the old route as a commercial switch and is doing a thriving business,
                    being largely responsible for the growing importance of Senate avenue as a warehouse and wholesale
                    district.
            The report of the president and directors for 1851 is a document of considerable interest. By the end
                    of the year the grading and bridging on sections 2 and 3 had been completed, and seven miles of
                    track laid "when frost suspended operations." Of the 5,000 tons of rail bought in 
                        Wales
                     2,100 tons had been delivered to 
                        Lafayette
                    . 
                        Some 1500 tons additional are in transit and stored for the winter at 
                                Toledo
                             and Oswego, mostly at 
                                Toledo
                            . The residue is in store at 
                                Brooklyn
                            .
                    A temporary depot had been erected at 
                        Lafayette
                    , and two water stations established—one near the station and the other with
                    an overshot, six miles out of 
                        Lafayette
                    . The company had purchased a twelve ton locomotive and "a small secondhand
                    engine for constructing purposes and ballasting", and had in reserve an eighteen ton
                    freight engine for use when the road became further advanced.63 The shops were located in 
                        Lafayette
                    , and they not only repaired equipment but actually built some gravel cars and platform
                    cars.
            
               
                  61
                        Locomotive, July 10, 1852, gives the white population of 
                            Indianapolis
                         as 10,463, and colored population 349, a total of 10,812. The city, according to
                        the same source, had 8,099 population in June, 1850
               
                  62 Dunn, Greater 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 153.
               
                  63 As previously mentioned, the "Mikado" type of engine
                        now used on the Big Pour weighs 334,000 pounds.
               
                  64 These bonds were selling for ninety-two dollars on a par value of one
                        hundred dollars, according to Locomotive for March 12, 1853.
            
            
            The receipts of the road had been:
            
               
                  Individual stock
                  $234,750
               
               
                  7% bonds, city of 
                                Lafayette
                            
                  
                  120,000
               
               
                  7% company bonds, negotiated
                  350,000
               
               
                  Miscellaneous cash payments
                  
                            4,025
                        
               
               
                     Total
                  $708,775
               
            
            In reserve were the following:
            
               
                  Stock installments not yet due
                  
                            $ 60,000
                        
               
               
                  
                     
                                Lafayette
                             bonds not sold
                  160,000
               
               
                     Present available means
                  $166,000
               
            
            Expenditures had been:
            
               
                  Surveying and engineering
                  $ 12,300
               
               
                  Graduation and bridges
                  103,000
               
               
                  Ties
                  14,000
               
               
                  Rails, chairs and spikes, wheels, axles, etc
                  248,578
               
               
                  Right of way, depot grounds, real estate and water rights
                  11,580
               
               
                  Discount interest account
                  86,000
               
               
                  Track laying, etc.
                  2,500
               
               
                  Salaries, office and shop expenses, and misc
                  
                            10,239
                        
               
               
                     Total
                  $488,197
               
            
            The following additional expenses were estimated:
            
               
                  Road bed and wooden superstructure, graduation, masonry and bridging
                  $145,000.00
               
               
                  155,000 ties
                  
                            25,187.50
                        
               
               
                     Total
                  $170,187.50
               
            
            The amount of capital expected to complete the road, with equipment, was $700,000, but
                    this figure proved, subsequently too low by $300,000.65 Railroads in
                    those days did not have the modern highly specialized methods of gathering statistics and estimating
                    costs, so their estimates generally went wide of the mark by a considerable margin.
            A feature of the road which greatly aided construction was the fact that of the 62.36 miles of road,
                    only 7.79 miles were 
                  
                     65 The total cost was given as $1,000,000 by the Railway Times In January, 1854. Dunn, Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 153, names the same amount.
               
                     curved; only four streams crossed required bridges of any
                    size—Sugar creek, Eagle creek, White river, and Fall creek. Since
                    the route has been changed to enter 
                        Indianapolis
                     from the west, the present line does not cross Fall creek.
            The advantages of the route from an economic point of view are clearly seen and explained. A road was
                    being built from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                        Cincinnati
                    , "now and forever the metropolis of the west"; and the 
                        New Albany
                     and 
                        Salem
                     (now the Monon) connected 
                        Lafayette
                    , when completed, with Lake 
                        Michigan
                    , thus affording a continuous line of railroad almost the entire distance from 
                        Cincinnati
                     to 
                        Chicago
                    . The feasibility of connecting the Atlantic commercial centers with the
                        Mississippi Valley was foreseen "and the central regions of 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana are that portage ground".
            Following are the officers and directors of the company, as given in this report: A. S. White,
                    president; J. L. Meredith, secretary; Cyrus Ball, treasurer; Backus Ford, engineer; William C.
                    Richards and Samuel K. Richards, assistant engineers; Cyrus Ball, Thomas T. Benbridge, Joseph S.
                    Hanna, John Purdue, William F. Reynolds, James Spears, Albert S. White, 
                        Lafayette
                    ; Joseph Cloud, Harvey G. Hazelrigg, Samuel S. Strong, William Zion, 
                        Boone county
                    ; James Blake, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and Nathan H. Stockwell, 
                        New York
                    , directors.
            
               
                        Indianapolis
                    , it was predicted, would become the largest inland capital in the 
                        United States
                    , which is probably true today. The report closes with the hope that 
                        Indianapolis
                    , under railroad influences, would become 
                        
                     the city of the plains and the 
                                Lafayette
                             and 
                                Indianapolis
                             road for all time a thronged thoroughfare.
                    
                
            With the opening of 1852, work was pushed rapidly on the new railroad. We read in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel, May 21, 1851, that "the 
                        Lafayette
                     company are putting down their iron rapidly." The depot at 
                        Indianapolis
                     was being built at the same time, and we learn from Locomotive, June
                    19, 1852, that it was a large brick structure, two hundred feet long and sixty-four feet wide.66 The first "stopping place" on the road 
                  
                     66 J P. Dunn, says it was frame, was burned in 1864, and rebuilt of
                            brick-in 1866. See Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 153.
               
                     out of 
                        Indianapolis
                     was called Council Station, one and one-half miles east of Augusta.67 The following is taken from Locomotive, July 17, 1852: 
                        The 
                                Lafayette
                             and 
                                Indianapolis
                             railroad is now finished from 
                                Lafayette
                             to 
                                Lebanon
                            , within twenty-eight miles of this city, and in running order. Next week the
                            Western Stage company start a line of coaches between this city and 
                                Lebanon
                             to connect with the 
                                Lafayette
                             road at 
                                Lebanon
                             and with the 
                                Madison
                             road at this city. This will be the most direct route from 
                                Cincinnati
                             to 
                                Lafayette
                             with but twenty-eight miles of staging. The balance of the road is being pushed
                            forward with energy and it is expected the cars will come to this city this year.68
                  
                    
                
            None of the early railroad presidents in the state had the gift of Oliver H. Smith of the
                    Bellefontaine for securing publicity—he not only appeared to love "to revel in
                    the calcium", but it was a great aid to him politically as well. Consequently, we do not
                    find accounts in the contemporary press of well organized, elaborately reported celebrations at
                    towns along the routes of other roads that were the case along the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and Bellefontaine, incident to the coming of the first train. However, there were great
                    interest and curiosity along the 
                        Lafayette
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     as the line was extended and the trains began to arrive for the first time. Ralph W.
                    Stark, of the 
                        Lebanon
                     Pioneer, has written the following very interesting account of the coming of the first
                    train to 
                        Lebanon
                     and to Thorntown, in 
                        Boone county
                    :69
                    
                        It was one of those bright lovely days of late summer, probably near the last of August, in
                            the year 1852, that the smoke of the first railroad locomotive to enter 
                                Lebanon
                             curled up and faded into nothingness in the clear sky above the then straggling
                            little village of a few hundred inhabitants with its log cabins and dirt streets. It was,
                            moreover, presidential campaign year; the year when the Whigs and 
                        
                           67
                                    Locomotive, March 19, 1852. Possibly "stopping
                                    place" was more appropriate than "station"' when
                                    one considers the railroading of those days.
                        
                           68 About a year later the road had been finished to 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     and the 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     and 
                                        Cincinnati
                                     railroad completed, which considerably shortened the route.
                        
                           69 Written expressly for this sketch by Mr. Stark after
                                    interviews with John R. Saunders, Wash Kersey and Mrs. Mary McCaslin, of 
                                        Lebanon
                                    , all of whom, though children at the time, remember the coming: of the
                                    first train. Mrs. McCaslin remembered when the train came to Whitestown, southeast
                                    of 
                                        Lebanon
                                    .
                     
                             the Democrats were practically at swords points over
                            the merits of their respective candidates, General Winfield Scott and Franklin Pierce.
                        For days rumors had come and rumors had gone by way of the "grapevine
                            telegraph" among the citizens of the county, "moss-legs" and
                            "web-foots", as they were then derisively termed by their neighbors in the
                            better settled parts of Indiana, concerning the arrival of the cars at 
                                Lebanon
                            . However, the day finally came when rumor took a back seat and reality got on
                            the wire with the result that on the aforesaid morning a good crowd had assembled at the
                            little twelve-by-eighteen-foot shanty on South 
                                Lebanon
                             street, which served the purposes for a time of a depot, to see the train come
                            in.
                        After much impatient waiting, during which time several disputes had taken place but which
                            had been settled without fatalities, the cry went up that the cars were coming. Everyone
                            began craning his neck and trying to secure a better vantage point when two handcars hove in
                            sight from the west bearing the Irish members of some of the construction gangs.
                        One of the cars of wildly shouting and gesticulating Irishmen bore a hickory pole with the
                            Democratic flag at the top; and the other handcar bore a hickory pole which carried the
                            emblem of the Whig party. Great excitement prevailed for a time among the on-lookers but the
                            crowd soon settled down to waiting.
                        In the meantime, new arrivals, by foot, on horse-back and by big wagon, swelled the assembly
                            and neighbors passed the time conversing and arguing with neighbors and villagers.
                        About 10 o'clock, another cry went up that the cars were coming and this time the
                            crowd was not disappointed. For sure enough, here came "Old 
                                Boone
                            ", as the locomotive was called, drawing a number of freight and
                            construction cars, and perhaps a passenger car or two. The entire crowd gave back a distance
                            of thirty to forty feet from the track as the diminutive engine came up puffing and
                            wheezing, for all the world like an old horse with distemper, and came to a stop at the
                            station.
                        As the train came to a stop, the engineer, in a humorous mood took advantage of a few
                            "young bucks", who thought to show their bravery and superiority by
                            remaining near the track and threw hot water on them, much to their discomfort.
                        This was the first official train on the 
                                Lafayette
                             and 
                                Indianapolis
                             railroad, as it was then called, to come to 
                                Lebanon
                            . After the people found that there was no danger in getting closer to the
                            train, they swarmed over it for a near up inspection. The citizens remained about the train
                            the entire day, learning first hand information concerning what was later to become one of
                            the great assets of modern civilization.
                        However, the day was not to pass without some fighting, and shortly after noon, one of the
                            Irishmen got into a dispute with a prominent 
                                Lebanon
                             citizen and soon came to blows. Within a short time half a dozen fights were in
                            progress and, as the town had no marshal, threatened  to
                            become a riot. All of the Irish joined together against the citizens and things continued at
                            a great pace. The affair came to a stop, however, after an Irishman had wielded a knife,
                            almost disemboweling the prominent citizen.
                        It may be said here in passing, that practically all of the construction labor on the road
                            was done by the Irish and they were a wild, hard-drinking, hard-fisted set in those days.
                        The rest of the day passed peacefully and without ceremony, and so far as can be learned,
                            there was no speech-making, or anything of that sort.
                        The grade for the 
                                Lafayette
                             and 
                                Indianapolis
                             railroad was built in 1850, but as it was thought in those days that the grade
                            should have a year or two in which to settle, the work of laying the ties and track did not
                            commence until in 1852. This was begun at 
                                Lafayette
                             and carried Indianapolisward. The first train reached Thorntown, eight miles
                            from 
                                Lebanon
                            , about a month earlier, some time in July, and was made an occasion for much
                            speech-making and a barbecue, which was held in Homer's grove.
                    
                
            According to Locomotive, September 11, 1852, the company was "laying iron
                    between 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Lebanon
                     at the rate of two miles a week", and all the grading was done
                    "except a little in this city which will be finished in a few weeks". Two miles a
                    week in those days was considered very fast work, and the writer once discussed this with J. W.
                    Burt, maintenance of way engineer on the 
                        Chicago
                     division of the Big Four which includes the line of the old 
                        Lafayette
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and L. M. Denney, a maintenance of way supervisor with the 
                        Indianapolis
                     terminal and former president of the Roadmakers' Association. Both agreed that
                    the time in which a given stretch of track can be laid today varies greatly with conditions, not the
                    least of which is the willingness and aptitude of the workers; "however," said Mr.
                    Denney, "on the Bee Line, under the most advantageous conditions, we once laid track at the
                    rate of six miles a week." This shows that, varied as conditions may be, there has been
                    great improvement in this department of railroading. "It would be interesting,"
                    said Mr. Burt, "if it were possible to analyze the construction costs then and now and see
                    if we are more efficient; but the variation in conditions makes this impossible." However,
                    there is plenty of evidence to show the greater efficiency  of
                    today, even if it is impossible, as Mr. Burt says, to make an accurate and scientific comparison.
                    Construction costs then were about $12,500 to $15,000 a mile, whereas, they
                    would not be more than double that amount now except under the most extraordinary conditions. Rail
                    is approximately double the cost of the old days, being of steel and practically twice as heavy.
                    Today, ties are of carefully selected white oak, brought from a long distance at many times the cost
                    of the old ties, which were hewed in a forest adjacent to the road, at a cost of less than twenty
                    cents apiece.70 Laborers then could be hired for about a dollar a day, while now
                    three to four dollars a day would be a more accurate figure. Gravel for ballast could then be hauled
                    to the track and spread by people who thus worked out subscriptions; for the road, while now ballast
                    is bought at an expensive price and dumped on the track from specially constructed ballast cars.
                    Besides, the science of railway accounting has greatly progressed since 1852; then, no doubt, only
                    the actual construction expenses were counted, while now the office expense of construction is
                    added, and it must also take its share of the distribution of various overhead expenses. Again, the
                    switches and crossings of 1851 were rather; crude; but today, with such appurtenances as frogs,
                    guard rails, switch points, tie plates, special heat-treated bolts, and the like, all of which are
                    necessary to withstand the strain of modern traffic, the? cost of switches and crossings is today
                    perhaps one-third to two-fifths the cost of an entire stretch of railroad.
            When the stage coaches met the railroad in 
                        Boone county
                    , the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Sentinel heralded the tidings that the trip from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                        Lafayette
                     could be made by daylight. 
                        The Western Stage company are now running a line of four-horse coaches to 
                                Lebanon
                            , connecting with the 
                                Lafayette
                             and 
                                Indianapolis
                             Railroad, leaving 
                                Indianapolis
                             daily, except Sundays, at 6 o'clock A. M., connecting at 
                                Lebanon
                             with the cars and arrive at 
                                Lafayette
                             at 3 P. M. the same day. Returning, the cars leave 
                                Lafayette
                             at 8 A. M., connect at! 
                                Lebanon
                             with the stage and arrive at 
                                Indianapolis
                             at 4 P. M.71
                  
                    
                    
                  
                     70 See report of President and Directors for 1851, showing that
                            155,000 ties cost a little more than $25,000.
                  
                     71
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Aug. 3, 1852.
               
                     Today, the "Sycamore", the special fast train
                    between 
                        Chicago
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     on the Big Four, makes the trip from 
                        Lafayette
                     to 
                        Indianapolis
                     in exactly an hour and a half.
            The road had been finished to Eagle Village, twelve miles from 
                        Indianapolis
                     by September 25, 1852, and still being constructed at the rate of two miles a week.72
            
            Indiana's first State Fair was held in 1852, during the latter part of October, and was
                    heralded as a great event. That railroads helped even then as now, to make the annual State Fair a
                    great event, was no doubt appreciated at the time. The 
                        Boone County
                     Pioneer, speaking of the fact that the road would be completed to within three or four
                    miles of 
                        Indianapolis
                     by that time, said, 
                        This will afford a fine opportunity of attending the first State Fair of Indiana, which many
                            will avail themselves of.73
                  
                    
                
            In order to cross the street with their track, the company had to cut down the bridge over the canal
                    on Washington street. The street was thus made nearly level, and according to Locomotive, "a great improvement".74 The road was
                    soon finished and the Sentinel, December 16, 1852, recorded the fact that the
                    train from 
                        Lafayette
                     ran into the 
                        Indianapolis
                     depot.
            A few subsequent newspaper advertisements may be of interest, in showing conditions of travel at that
                    time. The first is from Locomotive in several issues early in 1853: 
                        Through from the 
                                Ohio
                             to the 
                                Wabash
                             in one day! A passenger train leaves 
                                Lafayette
                             every morning except Sundays at 7 o'clock, arrives in 
                                Indianapolis
                             at 11, in time to connect with the trains on all the eastern and southern
                            roads. Returning leaves 
                                Indianapolis
                             at 1 o'clock P. M., immediately after the arrival of the 
                                Madison
                             cars. This train also connects with the 
                                Terre Haute
                             trains at 
                                Indianapolis
                            , forming a daily line between 
                                Lafayette
                             and 
                                Terre Haute
                             each way. From 
                                Lafayette
                             the cars of the C. & W. (now the Monon) run daily except Sunday to 
                                Crawfordsville
                            . Daily stages run to 
                                Logansport
                             over a road almost 
                        
                           72
                                    Locomotive, Sept. 25, 1822.
                        
                           73 Quoted in Locomotive, Oct. 2, 1852. The
                                        
                              
                                            Boone County
                                         Pioneer, now the 
                              
                                            Lebanon
                                         Pioneer, is edited by Mr. Stark, who wrote the account of the
                                    coining of the first train to 
                                        Lebanon
                                    .
                        
                           74
                                    Locomotive, Oct. 30, 1852.
                     
                             free from cor-du-roi, and stages also run west and
                            southwest. Steamboats are plying twice a week or oftener on the Wabash
                            river during navigation between 
                                Lafayette
                             and the towns below.
                        J. L. MEREDITH,
                            Secretary.
                  
                        
                     
                                Lafayette
                            , December 21, 1852.
                    
                
            The second was run in a number of issues in the summer of 1853: 
                        On and after July 20, two passenger trains will make daily trips (Sundays excepted) between 
                                Indianapolis
                             and 
                                Lafayette
                            . From 
                                Lafayette
                             the express leaves the depot at 8 o'clock A. M. and arrives in 
                                Indianapolis
                             at 11:15 A. M., the accommodation at 1:50 P. M. and arrives in 
                                Indianapolis
                             at 6:55 P. M. The accommodation leaves 
                                Indianapolis
                             at 6:00 A. M. and arrives in 
                                Lafayette
                             at 11:15 A. M., and the express leaves at 2:00 o'clock P. M., arriving
                            in 
                                Lafayette
                             at 5:15 P. M. The express leaves from the Union track, the accommodation from
                            the 
                                Indianapolis
                             depot. A daily line of packets leaves 
                                Lafayette
                             every evening after the arrival of the express, for 
                                Delphi
                            , 
                                Peru
                            , 
                                Logansport
                            , Ft. 
                        Wayne, Covington
                     , Attica, etc.
                    
                
            Even as late as 1852, the railroads were considered as auxiliary to canals, not as competitors; then
                    the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie canal was in its heyday.
            The last advertisement quoted in this sketch is from the Locomotive, November 12,
                    1853: 
                        It is just twelve hours to 
                                Chicago
                             from here by the 
                                Lafayette
                             road. Persons leaving here by morning train get in 
                                Chicago
                             the same evening. Through tickets to 
                                Chicago
                            , six dollars.
                    
                
            Here 1852 holds the advantage, as tickets today would cost more than twice that amount; still, as
                    some one remarked of George Washington's reputed feat of throwing a silver dollar across
                    the Potomac, "a dollar went much farther in those days than it does today." Yet,
                    be it said to 1924's credit that passengers can make the journey to 
                        Chicago
                     from 
                        Indianapolis
                     on the "Sycamore" in four hours and forty minutes instead of twelve
                    hours; and that seven instead of two passenger trains run each way every day between 
                        Lafayette
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            The trains and method of operation on the old 
                        Lafayette
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     were practically the same as on the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                     and Bellefontaine, which have been previously described. Mr.
                    Stark has the following to say in this regard: 
                        There were three engines used in the construction work, "Old 
                                Boone
                            ", the "Pioneer", and a small switch engine which was
                            termed the "Meteor" and which had an exceptionally shrill whistle. The
                            engines were about one-fourth the size of the engines of today, according to my informant,
                            and were probably half as long. And of course they had the old "balloon"
                            type of smokestack. The rails were iron, much smaller in size than the steel rails of today
                            and did not last very long when put in use. The rails were laid end to end on the
                            "fish plates", which in turn were on the ties, and were not fastened
                            together.
                        The locomotives burned four-foot lengths of wood, and there was a brisk sale in sugar tree,
                            ash and beech along the line.
                        It is said that one of the Irishmen in the construction gang, whose name was Bulger, was a
                            giant in size and could carry two of the rails at one time.
                    
                
            Though it did not build up industry greatly along the route, the 
                        Lafayette
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     was for years a very prosperous road. The territory it served was, however, very
                    thriving, especially in agricultural products, and this road was the only rail outlet for a large
                    part of it.75 One great advantage it had, along with the 
                        Peru
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     railroad, was its function in connecting 
                        Indianapolis
                     with the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie canal, and therefore with the eastern centers of trade. This is shown rather
                    graphically in the following advertisement, which appeared in the Daily State Sentinel during the
                    early part of June, 1852: 
                        New Arrangement—Mr. Smith, commission merchant of 
                                Terre Haute
                            , visited our city last week to make arrangements with our merchants in relation
                            to transporting goods from 
                                New York
                             and 
                                Boston
                            . The arrangements are now perfected and contracts can be made from 
                                New York
                             to this place thus: Light goods, $41.40; heavy goods,
                            $1.19, and to come through in twenty days. There can be no doubt of the
                            feasibility of this route via the 
                                Wabash
                             and Erie canal to 
                                Terre Haute
                            , to this city by railroad. [The 
                                Terre Haute
                             and 
                                Indianapolis
                            , now part of the Pennsylvania, was the only rail connection between the two
                            cities at the time.] By this route we avoid the long delays and extravagant 
                        
                           75 Dunn, Greater 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , 153. The same authority writing in 
                                        Clay
                                    -baugh's History of 
                                            Clinton County
                                        , 234–6, mentions that before the railroad was built
                                    corn was selling from 25c to 30c a bushel
                                    along the route, but 45c to 50c a bushel in towns along a
                                    railroad.
                     
                             charges of the old route. We gain in another way: we
                            pay our freight charges after the arrival of our goods; therefore, we retain the power in
                            our hands of having justice done us.
                        MERCHANT.
                  
                    
                
            A correspondent of Locomotive, commenting on this advertisement in the issue of
                    June 12, 1852, refers to the shortening of this route when the railroads were finished to 
                        Lafayette
                     and Peru, both on the canal. Speaking of the connection at 
                        Lafayette
                    , when the 
                        Lafayette
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     was finished, he said it would mean 
                        a saving of eighty-eight miles of canal transportation, and we shall then get our goods
                            direct from 
                                Lafayette
                            , saving one day in time and considerable in expense.
                    
                
            The railroad had a healthy effect upon the towns through which it passed, as well as the farming
                    communities. This was not so noticeable, however, in 
                        Lafayette
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                    , which had other rail or water lines as in the towns possessing no other line of
                    railroad; although both cities profited greatly, of course, from the road. 
                        Lebanon
                    , although its growth has been the slow but sure kind since earliest times, grew large
                    enough to be incorporated in 1853,76 the year after the road was built through the town. Thorntown,
                    also in 
                        Boone county
                    , was retarded in its pioneer growth by "possessing few means of egress and
                    ingress", and "almost no markets for the products of the farm";77 and this condition was not corrected until the coming of the railroad,
                    Colfax, in Clinton county, was laid out in 1849 when the road was projected, and was originally
                    called Midway because it was half-way between 
                        Lafayette
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                    . A post-office was established there in 1853, and the name was soon changed to
                        Colfax.78 When the Vandalia built their branch line from 
                        Terre Haute
                     to Logans-port through Colfax a good many years later, it became a junction of
                    considerable importance. Several towns which are now thriving communities were built with the coming
                    of 
                  
                     76 Crist, History of 
                                    Boone County
                                , 399.
                  
                     77
                            Ibid., 408.
                  
                     78 Claybaugh, History of 
                                    Clinton County
                                , 345.
               
                     the railroad—notably Stockwell, in 
                        Tippecanoe county
                    , and Zionsville and Whitestown in 
                        Boone county
                    . It would appear that Stockwell was named for Nathan Stockwell of 
                        New York
                    , director of the road, and that Whitestown was named in honor of the president.
            No account of the building of the 
                        Lafayette
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     railroad is complete without a tribute to the president, Albert S. White, who served
                    from its organization until 1856. Like most of the pioneer railroad presidents of Indiana, he was a
                    politician and statesman, but who, unlike Oliver Hampton Smith, never appeared to seek publicity and
                    public praise. He sponsored a bill in congress in the early part of the Civil war to free the slaves
                    and indemnify the owners, which, though it had the warm support of Abraham Lincoln, was unpopular
                    with his constituents and cost him a renomination. He was a native of 
                        New York
                     and a classmate of William H. Seward at Union college. He opened a law office in 
                        Lafayette
                     in 1829 when twenty-six years old, served in congress in 1837–9 and
                    1861–3, and in the 
                        United States
                     senate in 1839–45. Even then, he was greatly interested in internal
                    improvements, and while in the senate "was active in securing grants of land to aid in the
                    extension of the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie canal".79 Soon after he retired from the senate
                    in 1845, he gave his entire attention to the building of the 
                        Lafayette
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and later the 
                        Wabash
                     and Western, of which he was the president for three years. In this respect, also, he
                    differed from 0. H. Smith, who, as related in the Beliefontaine sketch, tried a case in 
                        Danville
                     one day, tarried until late at night to hear the jury's verdict, came to 
                        Indianapolis
                     the same night, and was on hand early the next day at 
                        Chesterfield
                     directing preparations for a railroad celebration that day. However, Mr.
                    White's business ability and unremitting devotion to the road's interests were
                    great factors in its success, even if he perhaps did not get the publicity he deserved. Yet, those
                    who worked with him appreciated his worth; and Alva O. Reser, official reporter of the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     superior court, who was reared along the line of the road, wrote to the writer: 
                  
                            79
                            Appleton's Cyclopedia of American Biography.
                        
               
                     "I remember there was an engine named
                    ‘Albert S. White’, which I used to see going along the road, hauling one of
                    the passenger trains".80 The road for many years was, as the 
                        Lafayette
                     journalist hoped it would be, "a memorial of the enterprise of its projector,
                    the president."
            THE INDIANAPOLIS and CINCINNATI
            "Perseverance brings success" is an ever-familiar copybook maxim, but its truth was
                    never better exemplified than in the building of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                     railroad. Although it was originally planned in 1832, and more than one attempt to
                    build it failed, George H. Dunn of 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     never gave up the project until it was successfully put through more than twenty years
                    afterward.
            Before railroads were built extensively in the state and commerce made possible with the lake ports
                    and the large cities of the east, 
                        New Orleans
                     was the great trading center for the middle west, and most of the commerce was by the
                        Ohio and Mississippi Rivers, and their tributaries.81 These were the romantic days of river traffic described by Mark Twain in his
                        Life on the 
                            Mississippi
                        , and the Ohio River traffic was not without its thrills.
                    Great numbers of keel-boats and flat-boats, as well as steamboats plied the river, and 
                        the sides of the earlier boats were heavily reinforced as a protection from rifle fire from
                            the Indians who lurked along the shore.82
                  
                    Many stories are told of pirates who infested caverns along the 
                        Ohio
                     and preyed on the river traffic. In 1834, about the time the first 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     railroad was projected, 
                        the tonnage of the boats on the 
                                Ohio
                             and 
                                Mississippi
                             was larger than of the British Empire or of the entire Atlantic seaboard.83
                  
                    
                
            
               
                        Cincinnati
                     was then, and remained for many years the great depot of supplies for Indiana and the
                    metropolis of the 
                  
                     80 It was Mr. Reser's privilege several years ago to hunt up
                            a photograph of Albert S. White for the use of the 
                                United States
                             Senate library.
                  
                     81 Blank, Early Railroad Building in Indiana.
                  
                  
                     82 Burns, "Ohio River" in Indiana Magazine of History, 1923, p. 170.
                  
                     83 Burns, "Ohio River" in Indiana Magazine of History, 1923, p. 176.
               
                     west;84 and the most prosperous towns in
                    the southeastern part of the state were the river towns—
                  Lawrenceburg, Aurora
               , Rising Sun, 
                        Jeffersonville
                     and 
                        Madison
                    .85 It is only natural that the most important of the early lines of
                    railroad projected in the state should be from these points to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the state capital.
            Mention has been made in a previous sketch of the projection of the 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     and an extension to 
                        Lafayette
                     in 1832. In the same year was chartered the 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     with a capital of $500,000, and the following prominent Whigs backing it:
                    George H. Dunn, Judge John Test, Nicholas McCarty, John Hendricks, B. J. Blythe, and Judge
                        Peaslee.86 Most of these men were from 
                  Lawrenceburg, Shelbyville
                and 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Damages for land through which the road passed were to be assessed by twelve
                    disinterested parties appointed by a justice of the peace. It was evidently expected that the road
                    would be highly prosperous; although the present transportation act allows the railroads
                    5¾4% net profit and most roads have a hard time to earn even that, the charter
                    of the 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     stipulated that the road must not pay over 15% annual dividends on the
                    capital stock after expenses were paid; any profits in excess of this were to be "turned
                    over to the State Treasurer for use of the common schools". The route selected was slightly
                    different from the route finally built a good many years later. It went through 
                        Shelbyville
                     and 
                        Greensburg
                    , but went to Lawrenceburg by way of Napoleon, not far from that city. This is a
                    comparatively small town today; but that it was sufficiently important in 1832 to warrant this
                    specific routing is well illustrated by the following anecdote recalled by Mrs. Kate Milner Rabb
                    from George Gary Eggleston's Recollections of a Varied Life:
                    
                        A traveler in the western country asked the way to some town. "You go to Napoleon
                            first," replied the Hoosier, "and take the road to the
                            northeast." The traveler asked the way to another town, and each 
                        
                           84 John H. Holliday, 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    
                                    Sentinel, Aug. 5, 1869. See also Turner, Rise of the
                                        New West, 97.
                        
                           85 Burns, "Ohio River,"
                                    in Indiana Magazine of History, 1923, p. 177.
                        
                           86 See digest of charter in Blank's Early Railroad Building in Indiana.
                        
                     
                             time the answer began with "You go to
                            Napoleon." Finally, enraged, he said, "And if I want to go to
                            hell!" "Well," answered the Hoosier, "you go to Napoleon
                            and stay there!"87
                  
                    
                
            Though nothing permanent came of this early road, it has the distinction of having built the first
                    stretch of railroad west of the Allegheny Mountains, 1¼ miles near 
                        Shelbyville
                     in 1834. The construction of this little stretch is described as follows in Ralph
                    Blank's Early Railroad Building in Indiana:
                    
                        One elevation 20 or 25 ft. and two bridges were features of the route. It was built by
                            ordinary laborers without experience in the short space of two months. The entire cost of
                            construction amounted to $3524.47½. There was one cut of 5 feet, one
                            embankment of 5½ feet, a curve and two bridges on the road. The oak rails were
                            furnished at 1% cents per foot, delivered on the spot. As stone was scarce, the
                            track was laid on 6x8-inch timbers 20 feet in length, being used one on each side for cross
                            ties. The horse path (the vehicle was horse-drawn instead of steam-propelled) had to be
                            carefully constructed, costing approximately $200. The grading and clearing for
                            the road had been let in quarter mile sections—the first quarter,
                            $279, the second $245, the third $267, the fourth
                            $317, and the last $400.
                    
                
            Of course, a celebration accompanied the running of the one horse-drawn car for the first time, on
                    July 4, 1834. The following account appeared in the 
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         Journal, July 19, 1834, being copied from the 
                        Shelbyville
                    
                    Transcript:
                    
                        On the 4th inst. at 10 o'clock A. M. a procession was formed at the court house and
                            marched to the western terminus of the railroad in the following order: 1st, Capt.
                            Conover's Light Infantry Company, preceded by the music; 2nd, twenty-five little
                            girls dressed in white trimmed with blue, bearing the banners of the several States and the
                            liberty cap; 3rd, the Revolutionary soldiers; 4th, the orator, reader of the Declaration,
                            the chaplain, followed by the committee of arrangements and the citizens generally. After
                            the oration was delivered an excellent dinner was served by Mr. Jeremiah Bennet on the spot.
                            The day being fine, no place could, under existing circumstances, have been more suitable.
                            Immediately at the western end of the road is a beautiful grove of sugar trees and beech,
                            which afford, in the warmest day, a cool and refreshing shade.
                        The festivities and proceedings of the day were marked throughout with civil conduct and good
                            feeling. The car was kept constantly running 
                        
                           87 "Hoosier Listening Post," 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     Star, Oct. 23, 1923.
                     
                             and the greatest eagerness evinced to ride. Such was
                            the success of the experiment that those who were before doubtful were confirmed in the
                            utility and practicability of the work. After the festivities of the day were closed a
                            portion of the company repaired to Mr. Joseph M. Simms' and enjoyed themselves in
                            an agreeable dance.88
                  
                    
                
            According to a special to the 
                        Indianapolis
                     News, November 4, 1922, the fare was 25c a trip and the driver and conductor was named
                    William Ford. Judge William J. Peaslee, the "crazy 
                        Connecticut
                     Yankee", who has previously been mentioned as one of the founders of the road,
                    is given the chief credit for the building of this little stretch. A rock along the route, east of 
                        Shelbyville
                     contains the following inscription on a plate: 
                        Site of the first railroad west of the Allegheny Mountains, built by
                            Judge W. J. Peaslee, July 4, 1834.
                    
                
            Although little else was accomplished of importance the road went ahead with plans for its building.
                    The cost of the roadbed was estimated at $609,982.76 (a mere fraction of what it cost
                    about twenty years later), with a turn-out every five miles. Vandegraeff and Hewitt, the engineers
                    appointed by the state, recommended iron and broken stone foundation, white oak rails, which they
                    said would mean a saving of 20%; and steam instead of horses for motive power, which they
                    estimated would mean a saving of $27,000. The cost of black locust cross-ties was put at
                    $105 a mile.89 It will be noticed that certain kinds of wood which
                    are now rare and expensive were then abundant and regularly used. When the old engine-house of the
                    Big Four at 
                        Delaware
                    , O., was dismantled several months ago, a long solid white pine stringer was sent to 
                        Beech Grove
                    .
            
                    "The cost of this lumber would be prohibitive now, but it was plentiful then and
                        commonly used for such building purposes," said C. V. Coulter, storekeeper of the large
                        general storehouse there.
                
            J. H. Holliday records that a half mile or more of grading was done between the old and new portions
                    of the town of 
                  
                     88 Taken from Readings in Indiana History, Indiana
                            University Extension Department, 362.
                  
                     89 Blank, Early Railroad Building in Indiana.
                  
               
                    
                    
                        Lawrenceburg
                    .90 The 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     was one of the beneficiaries of the Internal Improvements act of 1836, one of the few
                    railroads to be so favored. The state issued bonds to the amount of $100,000 for the
                    road, and its debt on account of the 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     is given as $124,000 in 1837, interest and other charges possibly being
                        added.91 All concerned were very optimistic in 1837. Stock had been paid in
                    to the amount of $230,940.37, of which $221,180 was in mortgages and only
                    $9,760.37 in cash, according to the report for 1837, in so much as President Dunn
                    announced the road was willing to guarantee the state 5% dividend on $500,000
                    or any greater sum that the state may choose to invest after the road is completed.92 The total expenditures had been $33,188.42, of which $2,374 was for
                    right-of way, about $12,000 on rails and construction expenses, about $4,500
                    interest and bonus on the state bonds; $5,388.88 discount on the bonds when sold in 
                        New York
                    , which was charged as an expense against the company; and the remainder is chiefly
                    various office and organization expenses and salaries. In that year came the panic of 1837, and the
                    collapse of the state finances which followed meant the failure of this and all the railroads
                    planned in the scheme of 1836.
            Meanwhile, for many years commerce between central Indiana and 
                        Cincinnati
                     was carried on by road. Pioneers hauled wheat from counties in the western part of the
                    state to 
                        Cincinnati
                    ,93 as well as 
                  Lafayette, Louisville
                and other
                    markets by wagon road; and Alexander Swift of 
                        Oxford
                    , Indiana, a brother-in-law of the famous poets, Alice and Phoebe Gary, bought stock for
                    a 
                        Cincinnati
                     concern, which stock was driven all the way to 
                        Cincinnati
                    .94 A state road from Harrison, at the state line near 
                        Cincinnati
                    , to 
                        Indianapolis
                     was relocated by act of the legislature, February 16, 1848, and three commissioners
                        
                  
                     90
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Aug. 5, 1869.
                  
                     91
                            
                                Benton
                            , B. J., 
                        
                                    Wabash
                                 Trade Route, 61.
                  
                     92 Report of Jan. 17, 1837, Senate Document, regarding the
                            $500,000 Ralph Blank says the L. & I. was given the right to borrow
                            $500,000 on the credit of the State giving as security a mortgage on wild lands.
                            See Early Railroad Building in Indiana.
                  
                  
                     93 The writer's "Some Features of the History of 
                                Parke County
                            ," Indiana Magazine of History, 1916, p. 146.
                  
                     94 Jesse S. Birch, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, Oct. 30, 1923.
               
                     appointed for this purpose. When railroad building was revived
                    in the state about 1846, the first railroad, the 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                    , quickened trade between 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                    , routed by railroad to 
                        Madison
                     and thence by river to 
                        Cincinnati
                    . Then George H. Dunn and others revived the idea of a direct line between the two
                    cities, which naturally was fought vigorously by the M. and I. Locomotive, which
                    became an enemy of the latter road, accused the officials, in several issues, of offering free rides
                    and other inducements to the members of the legislature to influence them against granting a charter
                    to a direct-line railroad. Talk of the railroad persisted, however; as Ralph Blank says: 
                        Roads from 
                                Indianapolis
                             to the Ohio River were little more than trails. Teamsters
                            required 14 to 16 days to make the round trip from 
                                Indianapolis
                             to the 
                                Ohio
                            . Live stock usually were driven; 4 to 8 oxen or horses were required to draw
                            loads of 1 to 2 tons between 
                                Indianapolis
                             and the Ohio River trade centers.95
                  
                    
                
            Besides, having a complete monopoly of the railroad traffic between 
                        Indianapolis
                     and the 
                        Ohio
                    , the M. and I. was indulging in practices which caused charges of arrogance and
                    extortion to be made against them, so that even a rival road, the 
                  Jeffersonville, Madison
                and 
                        Indianapolis
                    , was being planned and later built.
            The opposition of the 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     appeared to be effective for a long time. Though it was clearly in the mind of the
                    promoters to make it a part of a line that could connect 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     some day, the first move was to incorporate the Rushville and 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     Railroad company, from Rushville to 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     by way of 
                        Greensburg
                    .96 This company obtained a charter by act of the legislature,
                    February 16, 1848. According to the charter, George H. Dunn, Omer Tousey, Jonathan Blaisdel, Thomas
                    Wheatley, Woodson Clark, Archibald Kennedy, Robert S. Cox, Hugh B. Cowan and Luis Salle
                    "and their successors in office" 
                  
                            95
                            Early Railroad Building in Indiana.
                        
                  
                     96 The route originally planned ran six miles northeast of 
                                Greensburg
                            , but was changed as a result of the strenuous protests of the 
                                Greensburg
                             citizens. Hardin, History of 
                                    Decatur County
                                , 393–4.
               
                     were to be directors. Although the company was a stock company
                    for several years, the capital stock was fixed at only $200,000 with shares
                    $50 each. Books were to be opened for subscriptions, subscribers were to receive
                    certificates of stock, and when $75,000 had been subscribed and $5 paid on
                    each share, the stockholders were to meet and elect nine directors. It was made lawful to enter on
                    lands for surveying or in search of materials for construction, but no material was actually to be
                    taken without the owner's consent. Subscriptions could be in land, money, labor, property,
                    stone, gravel or other materials. In case it should be found necessary to condemn any land, a
                    justice of the peace and twelve disinterested parties were to pass on the matter. The track could be
                    laid along a state or county road if desired, but the railroad, it was stipulated, 
                        must make and keep in repair good and sufficient causeways so that the free use of such state
                            and county road shall not be obstructed.
                    Construction was to be started within five years, and the capital could be increased if
                    found insufficient to build the road. Semi-annual dividends were to be declared on the first Mondays
                    of January and July "unless changed by the directors", and the dividends were to
                    be paid five days thereafter.
            The next move was to get amendments to the charter for an extension of the road, which were granted
                    by acts of the legislature on January 12 and 16, 1849.97 The railroad might
                    extend its line to Point Commerce, now Worthington, in 
                        Greene county
                    , by way of 
                        Edinburg
                    , 
                        Martinsville
                    , Gosport and 
                        Spencer
                    , starting at 
                        Greensburg
                    ; but stock subscribed for the Rushville and 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     could not be used for building the extension without the consent of a majority of the
                    stockholders. However, subscriptions were to be opened for the extension alone. A railroad had been
                    planned (one of many short ones which never materialized) from 
                        Milford
                    , in 
                        Dearborn county
                    , to 
                        Columbus
                    , and it was provided that the Point Commerce extension of the Rushville and 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     could not run parallel to it or within ten miles of it, unless a majority 
                  
                     97 Annual Reports, N. Y. Central Lines, 1917, p. 449.
               
                     of the stockholders of the 
                        Milford
                     and 
                        Columbus
                     consented.
            It is likely that even in 1849 the promoters of the Rushville and 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     had their eyes on the stone region around Point Commerce, Gosport and 
                        Bloomington
                    , and hoped some day to get control of the 
                        Franklin
                     and Martinsville, which was then being organized. This project, carried through a good
                    many years later, helped to get the road into serious financial straits, as we shall see later.
                    Little was heard of the extension the entire distance; but considerable talk was aroused over the
                    extension as far as Edinburg, possibly because it would make a junction there with the 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            Some construction work was done between 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     and 
                        Greensburg
                    , where the most interest was shown.98 When ground was first broken
                    at 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     it was "with the accompaniment of a barbecue and celebration".99 Even then, some people of that section fought the road, and the Rising Sun
                        Times opposed it vigorously.100 Meanwhile a meeting was
                    held in 
                        Greensburg
                    , March 30, 1849, and great railroad enthusiasm aroused. It was decided that 
                        Decatur county
                     should subscribe $100,000 to the new line; $50,000 to the line
                    from 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     to 
                        Greensburg
                    , and $25,000 each to the lines from 
                        Greensburg
                     to Rushville and Edinburg, respectively, "payable when the roadbed should be
                    ready for the iron." Perhaps Edinburg was contented with the business of the 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     and probably Rushville was too absorbed in the project of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                     Junction, which was built shortly afterward and is now the main division of the C. I.
                    & W. At any rate, not enough stock was subscribed along the route to warrant building the
                    road from 
                        Greensburg
                     to either Rushville or Edinburg.101
            
            Then the promoters returned to their earlier love—the line to 
                        Indianapolis
                     by way of 
                        Shelbyville
                    . A line had been 
                  
                     98 Annual Reports, N. Y. Central Lines, 1917, p. 449.
                  
                     99 Cottman, Indiana Magazine of History, 1907, p.
                            173.
                  
                     100 Cottman, Indiana Magazine of History, 1907, p.
                            173.
                  
                     101
                            History of 
                                    Decatur County
                                , L. A. Hardin, Editor, 393-4.
               
                     planned from 
                        Shelbyville
                     to Rushville, which was built in 1850 and is now part of the Pennsylvania. At this time
                    the Rushville and 
                        Shelbyville
                     Railroad company had been incorporated, and the 
                        Shelbyville
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     was organized by act of the legislature approved January 21, 1850. This road was to be
                    built by the Rushville and 
                        Shelbyville
                     and the Rushville and 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    . The act reads: 
                        After commencement of the construction of said road by one of the companies, on the failure
                            of the other to furnish its part of the stock, then the style and title of the 
                                Shelbyville
                             and 
                                Indianapolis
                             Railroad company shall be known by the name and style of the company
                            constructing it, and shall form a part of its road.
                    
                
            The name of the Rushville and 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , according to this act, was to be changed April 1, 1850, to the 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     and Upper 
                        Mississippi
                     under which name it remained until it was nearly finished, when it was changed to the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                    . The 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     and Upper 
                        Mississippi
                     was given authority to open subscriptions for the purpose of building a railroad from 
                        Greensburg
                     to 
                        Shelbyville
                    . As the Rushville and 
                        Shelbyville
                     failed to do its part toward the construction of the 
                        Shelbyville
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                    , that line became part of the 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     and Upper 
                        Mississippi
                    —and thus the incorporation of the 
                        Shelbyville
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     made possible the chartering of a line the entire distance from 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     to 
                        Indianapolis
                     under the name of the 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     and Upper 
                        Mississippi
                    .
            Not much was done, however, for about a year. In the meantime, the "Junction"
                    company, as it was called, obtained a charter soon afterward for a road to 
                        Cincinnati
                     from 
                        Indianapolis
                     by way of 
                  Rushville, Connersville
                and Liberty, though not without the
                    opposition of the 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Interest began to stir in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in the fall when 
                        Cincinnati
                     offered to donate $800,000 to some railroad enterprise, and efforts were
                    made to get them to give it to a line to 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Some disappointment was felt when it went to the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Mississippi
                    , now the B. & O. division between 
                        Cincinnati
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                    ; but it proved to be a "booster" for  the 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     and Upper 
                        Mississippi
                    .102 As the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Mississippi
                     went through 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , the two lines would make almost a straight line connection between 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                    . Talk persisted, but little action, and we find the following written by "A
                    Citizen" in Locomotive, July 12, 1851, in recommending the 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     and Upper 
                        Mississippi
                     as part of the shortest "and most direct line from 
                        Chicago
                     to 
                        Cincinnati
                     by way of 
                  Lafayette, Indianapolis
                and 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    ": 
                        It would be, if made, the great business route, and it must be made, or this city will be
                            greatly injured. I wish our people would look a little to this matter.
                    
                
            This citizen evidently "started something"; for activity commenced almost
                    immediately in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Shelbyville
                     especially. A meeting was held in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on Saturday, August 9, 1851, attended by the "most influential and wealthy
                    citizens of 
                        Indianapolis
                    ."103 William Sullivan presided and B. I. Blythe and Royal
                    Mayhew were vice-presidents. Judge Dunn, president of the 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     and Upper 
                        Mississippi
                    , spoke, and emphatic resolutions were passed. They called attention to the importance
                    and advantages of railroad connection between 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                    ; "the energy with which that work from 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     towards this city has been prosecuted" and "its present state of
                    forwardness", which inspired the hope that "with proper support and assistance the
                    road may be completed to this place by the close of the year 1852." The resolutions
                    moreover recommended "that active measures be taken to ensure the speedy completion of this
                    important work" and that the proceedings of the meeting be published by the newspapers of
                    both 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                    . A meeting was held the same week in 
                        Shelbyville
                     at which Nicholas McCarty of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , one of the organizers of the original 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                    , presided, and which endorsed the new railroad as a "valuable
                    investment" and the "shortest, cheapest-built and most practicable 
                  
                     102
                            Locomotive, Sept. 7, 1850.
                  
                     103
                            Locomotive, Aug. 16, 1851.
               
                     route between 
                        Cincinnati
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                    ."104 In the course of the Fourth of July celebration at 
                        Greensburg
                     in 1851 the railroad had been discussed, considerable enthusiasm aroused, and it
                    "inspired confidence" on the part of "men of the right
                        stamp."105 The 
                        Greensburg
                     Press gives the following report of progress on the work at the time: 
                        It now has the entire road between this place and 
                                Lawrenceburg
                             under contract, nearly half of which is grubbed and graded, and will be ready
                            for the iron by the first of August. The work between this place and 
                                Milford
                             is partly in the hands of; the contractors, and also a part of the main line
                            near St. Omer en route to 
                                Indianapolis
                            . By their constant and unwearying exertions the early completion of the road is
                            now one of the fixed facts.106
                  
                    
                
            The Indiana State Sentinel, August 9, 1851, reported that the first division would
                    be ready in a few weeks to receive the iron, 700 tons of which, heavy patent T-rail, 60 lbs. to the
                    yard, was "purchased and on its way." It was hoped to have the entire road ready
                    for the superstructure the next season, for which means had been provided with the exception of
                    eleven miles in 
                        Shelby county
                     pending "further subscription of stock from the citizens of that
                    region." The cost from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     was estimated at $1,050,000, which, like most railroad estimates of the
                    time, was far too low in the end. Still engines and rolling stock had to be purchased, and William
                    Robson, appointed stock solicitor, announced in the August 16, 1851, issue of Locomotive that he would 
                        be along the line of the road in 
                                Marion
                             and 
                                Shelby
                             counties after Monday next, the 18th, and will expect to find every person he
                            calls on prepared to subscribe liberally, as he shall call on only those that will be
                            benefited by the early construction of the road.
                    That his efforts were successful may be inferred from the announcement in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal about a month later that between $50,000 and $60,000
                    had been subscribed, and that "more can yet be procured".107
                    This amount had been 
                  
                     104
                            
                                Shelbyville
                            
                            Volunteer, quoted in Locomotive, Aug. 9, 1851.
                  
                     105 Quoted in Indiana State Sentinel, July 16, 1851.
                  
                     106 Quoted in Indiana State Sentinel, July 24, 1851.
                  
                     107 Quoted in Locomotive, Sept., 1851.
               
                     raised to $75,000 according to Locomotive, September 27, 1851. That all of these subscriptions were not of the most
                    substantial character, however, is shown by the following advertisement which appeared in Locomotive, February 28, 1852, and succeeding issues for many months: 
                        The 
                                Lawrenceburg
                             and Upper 
                                Mississippi
                             Railroad Company have a number of well improved farms, unimproved lands, vacant
                            lots and houses and lots in the most desirable location in the city of 
                                Indianapolis
                             and in 
                                Marion county
                            , which they will sell on terms that any industrious man wishing to get himself
                            a home can do so by paying a part of the purchase money down and a liberal credit will be
                            given for the remainder. For further particulars enquire of W. Robson, Agent.
                     108
                  
                    
                
            The officers of the road, as given in Locomotive, September 13, 1851, were as
                    follows: President, George H. Dunn; secretary, Wm. G. Dunn; treasurer, Columbus S. Stevens;
                    directors, George H. Dunn, David Nevitt, Walter Hays, of 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    ; James B. Foley, Samuel Bryant, James Hamilton, of 
                        Greensburg
                    ; Mr. Marshall, 
                        Milford
                    ; David Lovet, St. Omer, and James M. Ray, 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            Apparently the greatest matter of concern to the promoters at the time was the apathy of the people
                    of 
                        Cincinnati
                     toward the road. The Sentinel, August 11, 1851, speaking of the fact
                    that $400,000 had been subscribed all along the route, $100,000 collected and
                    expended, the heaviest part of the work completed and that the $100,000 still needed to
                    complete the grade to 
                        Indianapolis
                    "could be obtained on the credit of the company", says that the
                    citizens of 
                        Cincinnati
                     could not be ignorant of the efforts of 
                        Louisville
                    "to draw the trade of Indiana by the 
                        Jeffersonville
                     and 
                        New Albany
                     railroads." The Sentinel, September 5, takes notice of
                    $60,000 raised in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , to be raised to $100,00 and urges that 
                        Cincinnati
                     subscribe $200,000 to ensure the prospect of a "three
                    hours' trip between 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                     within 18 months from this time." Locomotive, as early as
                    September 7, 1850, speaking of railroads being built in other directions from 
                        Indianapolis
                    , said: 
                  
                     108 After Jan. 1, 1852, real estate subscriptions were not accepted
                            unless accompanied with the "requisite proportion of cash." Locomotive, Dec. 9, 1851.
               
                    
                    
                        If 
                                Cincinnati
                             can afford to lose this trade, and is anxious to lose it, all that is necessary
                            for her to do is to procrastinate until business is fairly established over the other
                        route.
                    
                
            Finally Judge Dunn wrote a letter to Nicholas Longworth, then a leading capitalist of 
                        Cincinnati
                    , whose son Nicholas represents 
                        Cincinnati
                     in the Federal congress today and is a son-in-law of the late Theodore Roosevelt. The
                    letter, which appears in Locomotive, September 27, 1851, is remarkable for its
                    picture of contemporary railroad progress in Indiana as well as its frankness and business insight,
                    so we quote it entire: 
                        The extent of the trade of Indiana with this city (
                                Cincinnati
                            ) is difficult to ascertain. Many of our best traders put it at half the entire
                            business of the city; none place it at less than one-third. Certainly in comparison with
                            that of any other state or district it stands preeminent.
                        Why has 
                                Cincinnati
                             capital and enterprise been so much more readily given to northern and eastern
                            works than to western? Is it because they are more profitable? Not one of them will compare
                            in this respect with the 
                                Madison
                             road, and how much more profitable would a direct route to 
                                Indianapolis
                             have been? This also is a great mistake. Other points have not been idle.
                            Fifteen years ago the entire trade of the 
                                Wabash
                             was with 
                                Cincinnati
                            . The hogs of that region were driven and its grain wagoned over the muddy roads
                            of that period to this place. With the completion of the 
                                Wabash
                             and Erie canal not a hog and scarcely a bushel of grain comes here. Had the
                            three railroads now making from different points on the 
                                Wabash
                             to 
                                Indianapolis
                             (these were from 
                        Terre Haute,
                                    Lafayette
                      and Peru) and the ones
                            from thence here been the first made, would this have been the case? Would the 
                                Wabash
                             and Erie canal have been constructed at all? Would the 
                                Madison
                             road have been thought of? Would not the improvements in Indiana have taken a 
                                Cincinnati
                             direction? Since the failure of the railroad to 
                                Indianapolis
                             in 1837, many roads have been projected in Indiana, none until very recently
                            having any reference to 
                                Cincinnati
                            , most of them directly inimical to her interests. Such is the 
                                Evansville
                             railroad,109 tapping the Wabash valley
                            and leading its trade to the lower 
                                Ohio
                            . Such the 
                                New Albany
                             road, crossing both branches of White river and ultimately
                            to 
                                Lafayette
                             and Lake 
                                Michigan
                            . Such is the 
                                Jeffersonville
                             road by which 
                                Indianapolis
                             is brought as near to 
                                Louisville
                             as it is to 
                                Cincinnati
                            . Such is the 
                                Knightstown
                             and 
                                Shelbyville
                             and Rushville and 
                                Shelbyville
                             and the 
                        
                           109 This was projected by O. H. Smith and others as an
                                    extension of the 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     and Bellefontaine, but it failed to materialize.
                     
                            
                            
                                Shelbyville
                             and Edinburg roads—all in a direction from 
                                Cincinnati
                             instead of to here. These elements have not ceased to work. 
                                Louisville
                             has voted $200,000 toward the extension of the 
                                Jeffersonville
                             road into the interior of Indiana. Already has she bought the 
                                Edinburg
                             and 
                                Shelbyville
                             road and leased for six years the 
                                Knightstown
                             road. This brings her to a point on the National Road 33 miles east of 
                                Indianapolis
                            , there forming a connection with Lake Erie giving southern travel a route to
                            the Lake without passing through 
                                Cincinnati
                            .
                        Shall this state of affairs continue? Shall nothing be done to counteract what is going on,
                            and what is it that can effect the changes so desirable for 
                                Cincinnati
                            ? A knowledge of the railway systems of Indiana suggests the remedy. That system
                            exhibits the remarkable feature of concentration of nearly all the railways of the state
                            between two points—
                                Shelbyville
                             and 
                                Indianapolis
                            . The roads leading into these places will communicate with every part of the
                            state and in a most favorable manner. What 
                                Cincinnati
                             needs is a direct communication with these points. She wants a connection with
                            both, and fortunately they are so situated that she needs but one line to effect but that
                            object. In 83 miles she reaches 
                                Shelbyville
                             and connects with three railroads all in use. Another will be made of 15 miles
                            to 
                                Franklin
                             where it connects with the road to Martinsville, 26 miles now making. In all,
                            at least 100 miles of railroad unite at this point and it is 10 miles nearer 
                                Cincinnati
                             than to 
                                Louisville
                            . In 26 miles further we reach 
                                Indianapolis
                            . Here are five roads making—one to 
                                Terre Haute
                            , which will be completed the first of December; one to 
                                Lafayette
                            , to be finished next year; one to Peru, under contract to be completed within
                            the same time; one to the state line at Union, called the Bellefontaine road, also expected
                            to be finished in another year. Another is projected east to 
                                Richmond
                            . All of these roads will average nearly 75 miles each, making of themselves 350
                            miles of road, but arrangements are making to extend them in various
                            directions—roads beyond 
                                Terre Haute
                             will penetrate 
                                Illinois
                             and reach the 
                                Mississippi
                             [he no doubt had reference to the 
                                Terre Haute
                             and Alton] at points extending from 
                                St. Louis
                             to 
                                Quincy
                            ; and engagements have been made, as I understand, with the Central 
                                Michigan
                             road to construct a road from 
                                Lafayette
                             to 
                                Michigan
                             City and 
                                Chicago
                             and that a survey and location is now on foot. You must perceive that this is
                            the nearest and best connection for 
                                Cincinnati
                             with 
                                Chicago
                            .
                        What other improvement can effect as much for 
                                Cincinnati
                             as the one we contemplate? One, more to the north or west, misses the mark
                            desired; and though such may be important in themselves and bring to the city a desirable
                            trade, they do not accommodate central Indiana.
                    
                
            At length 
                        Cincinnati
                     became aroused to the project, and the promoters were aided by the 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Commercial, famous in the middle nineteenth century under the editorship of  Murat Halstead. Locomotive, in September,
                    1851, mentioning the fact that a locomotive for the road had arrived at Lawrence preparatory to the
                    laying of the track, also quotes the 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Commercial as follows on the advantages of the road:
            
               It is an important feeder to the road which 
                            Cincinnati
                         must make to the mouth of the 
                            Mississippi
                        .
               It opens to this city, free from competition, a very fertile country, east of the 
                            Madison
                         road and north to within 30 miles of 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
            
            The 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Gazette also spoke of the fact that with a through line from 
                        Philadelphia
                     and Pittsburg to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , (this was not complete at the time) there was none from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                        Cincinnati
                    .110
            
            According to the Sentinel, October 4, 1851, $40,000 had been subscribed
                    in 
                        Cincinnati
                    , and 
                        the importance of this route was never more clearly manifested than at this time, when
                            traffic is almost suspended on the Ohio River.
                    
                
            In the meantime work was steadily going forward. The following figures appeared in the Sentinel, September 8, 1851: 
                        Cost of work, 
                                Lawrenceburg
                             to 
                                Indianapolis
                             (estimated), including depot, water stations, engines and rolling stock
                            complete, $1,025,000.
                        Stock subscribed, not including that taken in 
                                Indianapolis
                            , $459,799.
                        Whole amount put under contract, $250,578.86.
                        Amount of work completed, $93,026.87.
                        The above amount does not include contracts for timber, for cross-ties, some of which were
                            only closed at the late meeting and which now cover the line from the river to 
                                Greensburg
                             and are all payable in stock except half the supply required on the first 17
                            sections, which is half cash. The amount of work yet to be done to complete the grade is as
                            follows, which includes the usual percentage for contingencies:
                        
                     
                        On the first division, 17 miles
                        $32,558.22
                     
                     
                        On the second division, 
                                        Greensburg
                                    
                        
                        75,349.74
                     
                     
                        On the third division, 
                                        Shelbyville
                                    
                        
                        
                                    55,893.71
                                
                     
                     
                           Total
                        $163,801.67
                     
                  
                    
                
            
               
                  110 Quoted in 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, Jan. 24, 1852.
            
            
            Not a great deal of work was done until the next spring, or at least not much mention was made of it,
                    although a contract was closed with Andrew Wilson, Lawrence M. Vance and Hervey Bates, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , to finish the work of building the road, the company to furnish the iron from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to St. Omer in 
                        Decatur county
                    .111 Payment was to be made "in cash, bonds and stock of
                    the company." As subscriptions were beginning to be needed, the company decided to call for
                    them as follows: one-fourth when the road is completed ready for the cars to the end of the first
                    section from 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , 17 miles; one-fourth when completed to 
                        Greensburg
                    ; one-fourth when completed to 
                        Shelbyville
                    ; one-fourth when completed to 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The depot in 
                        Indianapolis
                     was located on 
                        Georgia
                     street between 
                        Delaware
                     and 
                        Alabama
                     streets "immediately in front of the depot house on the ground occupied as a
                    brick yard last year." This was in the heart of the main business section of the city then
                    and the present freight house of the Big Four is located at 
                        Delaware
                     and South streets, only about a square south of the old 
                        Cincinnati
                     depot.112
            
            By May 21, 1852, we read in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel that "the 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     company have a heavy force on their work." Just three days later the same
                    paper wrote that 
                        contracts have been made for engines, wheels, axles, etc., for an early use of the road as
                            completed from 
                                Lawrenceburg
                            , as no delay is expected to occur in the work being forwarded with energy.
                    
                
            The company, at first purely a stock company, had now begun to raise additional funds by the sale of
                    bonds. An act passed by the legislature, which became a law, January 28, 1851, by Governor Wright
                    neither signing nor vetoing it, authorized the 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     and Upper 
                        Mississippi
                     to sell bonds or borrow money at an annual rate of 6%. The city of 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , which subscribed liberally to the stock of the company, was given the right to issue
                    corporate bonds "of not less than $100 each", to be given to the
                    railroad in payment 
                  
                     111
                            Sentinel, quoted in Locomotive, Feb. 7, 1852.
                  
                     112 Statement of J. Q. Van Winkle, assistant to the vice-president, C.
                            C. C. & St. L.
               
                     for stock. It appears that they did not issue any great number
                    of bonds immediately, for the first mention we find of the bonds of the company is in the Sentinel, May 24, 1852, as follows: 
                        We are gratified to find by a dispatch received this morning that sales were made in the city
                            of 
                                New York
                             of all the bonds of this company, bringing the favorable price of over 90c.
                    
                
            Mention of the low market for railroad securities early in 1852 has been made in the Bellefontaine
                    sketch, so 90c on the dollar really was a favorable price at the time. The same paper for June 1,
                    1852, apparently when the market had begun to turn for the better, reported that the firm of
                    DeLauncey, Iselin and Clark in 
                        New York
                     had sold $500,000 worth of bonds of the 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     and Upper 
                        Mississippi
                     at an average of 93%. According to quotations in Locomotive, March 12, 1853,
                    bonds of the 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     and Upper 
                        Mississippi
                     were selling at $99 on a par value of $100.
            Progress on the road by June 1, 1852, is shown by an extract from the 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    
                    Register, quoted in the Sentinel for that date: 
                        The contract has been made for 10 locomotives and 200 cars, and the iron for the whole road
                            purchased. Nine hundred tons of iron are expected daily from 
                                New Orleans
                            ; 1000 tons have been shipped from 
                                New York
                             by canal and will be here in three or four weeks and 2000 tons are to be
                            shipped from Pittsburg in a few days. Every exertion is being made to forward the
                            enterprise. Hands are at work laying the track on the first division, and contractors for
                            the grade are multiplying their forces to finish their work so as to lay the rail as far as 
                                Shelbyville
                             by the first of November next.
                    
                
            The annual election of directors occurred in September, 1852, and the following were chosen: George
                    H. Dunn, David Nevitt, Levi B. Lewis, Joseph G. Monfort, James B. Foley, James E. Hamilton, James M.
                    Ray, Hervey Bates, and William Robson.113
            
            
               
                  113
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, Sept. 17, 1832.
            
            
            Progress was reported in the Sentinel, October 14, 1852, as follows: 
                        Twelve miles of track is laid down and now in use and four miles more will be completed in a
                            few days. The board confidently expects to complete the road to 
                                Greensburg
                            , 42 miles, by the first of January, and to complete the whole line 12 months
                            from this time.
                    
                
            Not a great deal of publicity was given the later progress of the road until it was completed, though
                    two quotations from Locomotive during 1853 may be of interest in showing the
                    progress of the work:
            May 21, 1853: 
                        They have commenced laying the track on the 
                                Lawrenceburg
                             and 
                                Indianapolis
                             [newspapers frequently persisted in referring to the company by the name of the
                            old company instead of by the correct name of 
                                Lawrenceburg
                             and Upper 
                                Mississippi
                            ] both here and at 
                                Shelbyville
                            . By the 4th of July persons can take the cars for 
                                Louisville
                             at this place and arrive there by way of 
                                Shelbyville
                             and Edinburg in about 5 hours.
                    
                
            May 28, 1853: 
                        The cars on the 
                                Lawrenceburg
                             and 
                                Indianapolis
                             railroad are now run into the depot at 
                                Greensburg
                            , 42 miles from 
                                Lawrenceburg
                            , and 46 miles from this city. They are laying iron at four points on this
                            road—from 
                                Greensburg
                            , from 
                                Shelbyville
                             both ways, and from this city. This will leave about 12% miles of
                            track to lay for each set of hands, and as the iron is at hand, the bridges and cross-ties
                            about ready, there will be but little delay. With good luck the cars will run from this city
                            to 
                                Lawrenceburg
                             early in July.
                    
                
            The line was not completed, however, until several months later. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal, November 1, 1853, speaks of the "first train having passed
                    through yesterday". The same issue says that 
                        citizens may dine before starting; the time for the departure of the regular mail train daily
                            (Sundays excepted) is fixed at 1 o'clock P. M., which will enable passengers to
                            arrive in 
                                Cincinnati
                             early in the evening after taking supper aboard the boat. We understand that
                            ample and efficient arrangements are in progress for a prompt transportation of freight.
                    
                
            
            The following advertisement was published in the papers at the time: 
                        NEW ROUTE to CINCINNATI
                  
                        The 
                                Indianapolis
                             and 
                                Cincinnati
                             Railroad connecting with the company's fast steamer Forrest Queen at 
                                Lawrenceburg
                             commences running this day, November 1, 1853. Train leaves 1 P. M., arrives at 
                                Cincinnati
                             7 P. M., at foot of Main Street. Boat leaves Main Street at 6 A. M. Cars arrive
                            at 
                                Indianapolis
                             12 M. Fare $3.00.
                        GEORGE HAVEN,
                            Supt.
                  
                    
                
            Commenting on this old advertisement, C. R. Myers, general agent of the Big Four, says: 
                        The fare from 
                                Indianapolis
                             to 
                                Cincinnati
                             on the opening of the road was $3.00 and the time for the trip, six
                            hours. Now the fare is $3.95 and the time on the fast trains is two hours and
                            thirty minutes. While the fare is seemingly higher now than then, yet, at that time, you
                            could buy twelve white oak railroad ties for a fare to 
                                Cincinnati
                             and now you cannot buy but three for one fare. All other commodities and raw
                            materials used and wages paid by railroads have increased in proportion, and the above
                            illustration shows the ratio.
                    
                
            It will be noticed that in the last advertisement the name of the road is given as the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                    . The board of directors voted, October 4, 1853, to make the change in name, and it was
                    called by the new name, although the change did not officially go into effect until December 1,
                        1853.114 Under the old system a special act of the legislature would have
                    been necessary to authorize the change in name; with the new constitution abolishing local laws and
                    a new law passed in 1852 and in force May 6, 1853, regarding, incorporations, the details of which
                    will be discussed later, a resolution of the board of directors was all that was necessary. The line
                    was officially opened to traffic November 14, 1853.115
            
            Great interest was shown during the building of the line in all the communities through which it
                    passed, though no records have been left of any celebrations. R. W. Harrison of 
                        Shelbyville
                    , has contributed to this sketch the following interesting reminiscences of all 
                        Shelbyville
                     residents concerning the completion of the road to that place: 
                  
                     114 N. T. Central Lines, Annual Reports for 1917, p. 449.
                  
                     115 N. Y. Central Lines, Annual Reports for 1917, p. 449.
               
                    
                    
                        
                     
                                Monroe
                             Goodrich, who has lived in 
                                Shelbyville
                             all his life, says that he was a passenger on the first through train on the
                            old I. & C. Railroad. The train was made up at 
                                Shelbyville
                             and run through to 
                                Lawrenceburg
                            , which was the end of the line at that time, the balance of the trip to 
                                Cincinnati
                             was made by boat on the Ohio River. The train consisted of
                            one passenger car, a baggage car and the engine. They stopped many times along the route to
                            "wood up" and arrived at 
                                Lawrenceburg
                             along in the afternoon.
                        Docia H. McDuffie, who was 90 years of age her last birthday, says she remembers well the
                            building and completion of this railroad. The railroad shanties built to house the laborers
                            in the construction of the line, were erected within a hundred yards of her home, and she
                            says she became personally acquainted with many of the men and their foremen. These men were
                            mostly Irish and after the completion of the road, they liked the locality so well, that
                            many of them brought their families to 
                                Shelbyville
                            , and located here permanently, and some of the prominent citizens of this city
                            at the present time, are descendants of these men.116
                  
                        James M. Bassett, another old resident, says he remembers the excitement among the farmers on
                            the completion of the road as it opened up for them a new market for their farm products in 
                                St. Louis
                             and 
                                Chicago
                            , where they could get a much higher price than heretofore, for everything
                            raised on the farm.
                    
                
            The coming of the railroad to Batesville, and the part played by it in the development of that
                    thriving 
                        Ripley county
                     community, have been well told by Mrs. Minnie E. Wycoff, of Batesville: 
                        Batesville, Indiana, is located in the extreme northwest corner of the county, close to the
                            junction of 
                                Franklin
                             and 
                                Decatur
                             counties and is built up to and across the county lines at the point where
                            these three counties touch.
                        The part located in 
                                Franklin county
                             is called Huntersville and was the earliest settled part of the community.
                            Another settlement about a half-mile east of Huntersville sprang up later but the town was
                            not laid out until 1852, the year of the completion of the railroad across the northern part
                            of 
                                Ripley county
                            .
                        The road was slow in building as there were no steam shovels at that time and the labor had
                            all to be done by hand shovels. The hauling was done by ox teams, principally.
                        
                     
                        116 At the time absentee landlordism, oppressive taxes and the
                                like were driving swarms of Irish to the 
                                    United States
                                . Construction gangs on most of the railroads in the middle west at the time
                                were largely made up of these Irish immigrants.
                  
                        
                        The nucleus of the future city of Batesville consisted in 1852 of two stores,
                            Thoman's on the north side and Kipper's on the south side of the railway
                            right of way. A few scattered farmhouses made up the rest of the settlement. With the
                            surveying and building of the railroad, a station was located near the two stores.
                            Batesville was laid out November 3, 1852, by John Callahan, J. H. Sprague, Joseph Groff,
                            Joshua Bates and George H. Dunn. The 
                                Lawrenceburg
                             and Upper 
                                Mississippi
                             was completed across Adams and Lougheer townships in 1852. A saw-mill was the
                            chief industry of the new town at this date. The land is principally level and swampy and
                            was covered with hardwood forests. The saw-milling industry expanded and finally developed
                            into wood-carving, furniture and casket manufactures. At this date, January, 1924, the city
                            claims about three thousand inhabitants and manufacturing plants valued at several millions
                            of dollars.
                        The land for the railroad was given by the farmers owning it, the company paying for it only
                            by free passes on the new road for a year or possibly two years. The workmen were boarded in
                            the farm homes along the right of way and stables were built for the oxen required in the
                            heavy hauling.
                        There being no town organizations in Huntersville or the newer town of Batesville, named for
                            one of its founders, Joshua Bates, the scattered settlers could take no united action except
                            to give their land and as much accommodation as possible to the workmen. Undoubtedly many of
                            them worked on the road but our oldest inhabitants with two or three exceptions, if born
                            here at all, were born about 1852 or 1853, coincident with the completion of the road. Of
                            the few born earlier, Mrs. Catharine Hinnenkamp, who came to this locality in 1842 as a
                            child of five years, has furnished considerable data. She accompanied her father, Mr. Zies,
                            to 
                                Indianapolis
                             and 
                                Cincinnati
                             on free passes furnished for them over the new road when a young girl of 16 or
                            17. Her father and mother boarded a large number of the workmen during the construction of
                            the railroad. Before this road was completed they drove their ox-teams to 
                                Cincinnati
                             to market, a distance of about 50 miles.117
                  
                    
                
            As the equipment and operation of all Indiana railroads at the time was very much alike, most of what
                    has already been written in this regard about the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and Bellefontaine and the 
                        Lafayette
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     holds good likewise for the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                    . Chadwick, History of 
                            Shelby County
                        , 258, mentions that engineers then got two dollars a day and firemen one
                    dollar a day, no extra rate being paid for over time, and that engineers made the repairs to their
                    own 
                  
                     117 Written expressly for this sketch.
               
                     engines. However, the road had shops for heavier repairs, as
                    all roads then and now, and these were located in the southwest part of 
                        Indianapolis
                    .118 Chadwick continues as follows: 
                        When two trains ran against each other on the same line of track, they would start from
                            opposite directions and run to a post painted white, which was usually set half way between
                            two station points. If one arrived first they waited a half hour, and if the opposite train
                            did not put in its appearance the first train arriving at the central white post would take
                            chances and sneak in, but frequently had to back up, as they would meet the belated train
                            midway. Many times the throttle would not work and steam could not be shut off in time to
                            stop the train; and in such cases the engineer had to open up his pumps from the tanks and
                            fill his boiler up with cold water in order to reduce the steam so the locomotive would stop
                            for want of power.119 If a train was supposed to carry 15 freights it
                            had to draw that number; whether filled with straw or stone, it made no difference.
                    
                
            Blank, Early Railroad Building in Indiana, has the following on the railroad
                    equipment of the period: 
                        Locomotives of the time were frequently painted in gaudy colors, bright red, blue and green.
                            The names were engraved on the engine in conspicuous places. The most common type of
                            locomotive had four large wheels in the rear and four small ones in front. Enormous smoke
                            stacks were characteristic of the period. The earlier passenger cars were short and brightly
                            decorated or carved.
                    It may be explained that large smoke stacks were necessary to secure proper draft on the
                    earlier engines. Today, with the powerful artificial draft caused by the exhaust steam under a
                    pressure about three times as great as on the engines of seventy years ago, a short stack suffices.
                    Mr. Blank's references to the names being engraved on the locomotives calls to mind once
                    again the old custom of giving them names instead of numbers. Hardin, History of 
                            Decatur County
                        , 393–4, says 
                  
                     118 Holliday, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, August 5, 1869, says they were moved to 
                                Cincinnati
                             about 1860.
                  
                     119 This referred to a later practice not known on the old 
                                Indianapolis
                             and 
                                Cincinnati
                            , when no doubt water was bailed into the boiler. At first when water was
                            carried in the tank, steam pumps were used as mentioned above, to force it into the boiler,
                            but now steam injectors, still better devices, are used.
               
                    
                    
                        Stephen Ludlow was an incorporator and director of the 
                                Lawrenceburg
                             and 
                                Indianapolis
                             railroad in 1836, and in his honor the dinky engine that was first put on the
                            rails was christened the "Stephen Ludlow." Fred Lunger was engineer and
                            Jacob W. Mills, conductor.
                    
                
            The primitive conditions of the brakes of the period may be shown by the following advertisement in
                    the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel, June 29, 1852, for Clayton and Miller's "Patent Car
                    Break": 
                        It is in a vice-like form, creates double the friction and requires less than half the
                            leverage of the breaks now in use, which breaks against the tread or periphery of the wheels
                            and so often cause the axles or the journals to break and frequently press the boxes out of
                            place, which is the cause of many accidents; and that it will prevent snow and ice from
                            clogging the wheels.
                    It would almost appear that the spelling "break" was very appropriate.120
            
            Another advertisement, appearing in the Sentinel during the latter part of 1851,
                    for the Muskingum Works of 
                        Zanesville
                    , O., affords comparison with today. These people manufactured. 
                        chilled car wheels, jack screws, switches, switch-stands, wrought and cast frogs, cast iron
                            railroad chairs; stock, coal, gravel and handcars and trucks of all descriptions.
                    Most freight car wheels today are of chilled cast iron, although those of passenger cars and
                    tenders are mostly steel. Instead of being wrought and cast iron, frogs (strengthening devices used
                    where two tracks intersect) now have to be made of hard manganese steel to stand the present day
                    strain of traffic. As mentioned before, chairs are practically extinct on modern railroads in the 
                        United States
                    .
            The final cost of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                    , according to Railway Times, January, 1854, was in round numbers
                    $1,200,000. The figures given by John H. Holliday are somewhat larger, and no doubt
                    include equipment as well, being 
                  
                     120
                            Locomotive, Nov. 5, 1853, contains the following: "The breaking
                            of an axle on the passenger train of the 
                                Lawrenceburg
                             road caused the smashing of two new passenger cars. No persons were seriously
                            injured, as the cars were running at the rate of twelve miles an hour."
               
                    
                    
                    
                     $25,983.76 a mile.121 It will be
                    seen that the average cost a mile was much heavier than the cost of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and Bellefontaine or the 
                        Lafayette
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     if Mr. Holliday's figures are correct—but this is reasonable, since
                    from 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     half the way to 
                        Indianapolis
                     it passes through a very hilly country which involved many expenses and difficulties
                    never encountered on the other two roads. The road was profitable from the very start, and the
                    following from Locomotive, December 24, 1853, shows the growth in weekly earnings
                    for freight in less than two months of its operation:
            
               
                  First week, November 5
                  $481.37
               
               
                  Second week, November 12
                  788.85
               
               
                  Third week, November 19
                  1,095.21
               
               
                  Fourth week, November 26
                  1,617.47
               
               
                  Fifth week, December 3
                  2,261.60
               
               
                  Sixth week, December 10
                  3,462.57
               
            
            The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal, December 19, 1853, says: 
                        The freighting business on this new route is exceeding the most sanguine predictions of its
                            projectors. The receipts for freight alone have been more than $1,000 per day for
                            some time past. One day this week 95 cars arrived in 
                                Lawrenceburg
                             full of freight. More cars are being built and every care taken to push forward
                            freight without delay.122
                  
                    
                
            It appears that the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                     was the most advanced of the Indiana railroads of the time in its system of accounting
                    and statistics, which make its report for the six months ending January 1, 1855, unusually
                    interesting. The financial and statistical report is as follows:
            
               
                   
                  Passenger Receipts
                  Freight Receipts
                  Total
               
               
                  July
                  $8,036.79
                  $7,803.83
                  $15,840.62
               
               
                  August
                  13,227.39
                  12,514.94
                  25,742.33
               
               
                  September
                  16,089.44
                  15,021.90
                  31,111.34
               
               
                  October
                  18,557.88
                  14,824.35
                  33,382.23
               
               
                  November
                  20,735.13
                  16,666.38
                  37,401.51
               
               
                  December
                  
                            13,836.60
                        
                  
                            17,912.37
                        
                  
                            31,748.97
                        
               
               
                   
                  $90,481.23
                  $84,743.77
                  $175,225.00
               
            
            
               
                  121
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, Aug. 5, 1869.
               
                  122 Quoted by Cottman, Indiana Magazine of History,
                        1907, p. 173.
            
            
            
               
                  Transportation of mail
                  $3,384.37
               
               
                  Transportation of express
                  
                            957.55
                        
               
               
                     Total receipts for transportation
                  $179,566.92
               
               
                     Total expenses on account of transportation, being
                            about 46½ of gross earnings
                  
                            83,469.79
                        
               
               
                     Net receipts for six months
                  $96,097.13
               
               
                  From which deduct interest for 6 months on 1st and 2d mortgage bonds $29,750.00
                  
               
               
                  Also interest for 6 months on income bonds 8,900.00
                  
                  
                            38,650.00
                        
               
               
                     Will leave applicable to dividends, a little over
                            47/10% on capital stock
                  $57,447.13
               
               
                  Total number of through passengers for 6 months
                  23,609
               
               
                  Total number of way passengers for 6 months
                  
                            41,025
                        
               
               
                     Total
                  64,634
               
               
                  Average number of passengers per day
                  415
               
               
                  Average receipts for passengers per day
                  $580.00
               
               
                  No. tons of through freight westward
                  4,990
               
               
                  No. tons of way freight westward
                  4,737
               
               
                  No. tons of through freight eastward
                  10,319
               
               
                  No. tons of way freight eastward
                  12,845
               
               
                  Total tonnage eastward
                  23,164
               
               
                  Total tonnage westward
                  9,727
               
               
                  Total receipts for westward freight
                  $39,427.87
               
               
                  Total receipts for eastward freight
                  45,315.90
               
               
                  Average tonnage per day
                  210%
               
               
                  Average freight receipts per day
                  543.21
               
               
                  Receipts for transportation the first 7 months (Dec., 1853, to July 1, 1854)
                  145,947.80
               
               
                  Add receipts, July to Jan. 1 above
                  
                            179,566.92
                        
               
               
                     Receipts first 13 months
                  $325,514.72
               
               
                  Gross receipts per mile
                  3,616.83
               
               
                  Cost of road and equipment per mile
                  24,205.21
               
               
                  Earnings for the first 7 months after paying interest on bonds, was
                  41,809.24
               
               
                  Add net earnings for last six months
                  
                            57,447.13
                        
               
               
                     Total net receipts, being over 8 1/10% on
                            the capital stock
                  $99,256.37
               
            
            
            The first and second mortgage bonds referred to are explained by John H. Holliday, who says that
                        
                        first mortgage bonds to the amount of $500,000 were issued in 1853 and in 1854,
                            $300,000 of second mortgage bonds.123
                  
                    The figures indicate that the road was a steady, prosperous one, ably and conservatively
                    managed; but railroads were considered as get-rich-quick propositions in those days, rather than as
                    conservative investments, so we find the president offering an "alibi" for the
                    fact that the net earnings were only 8 1/10% on the capital stock! The fault is laid on
                    the low stage of the 
                        Ohio
                    , which retarded the shipment of the wheat and corn crops, and also the decrease in the
                    number of hogs usually shipped to the 
                        Cincinnati
                     market from this section of the state. The next year, he said, the net earnings should
                    be 15 to 20%. As a matter of fact the net earnings for 1856 were considerably larger,
                    being $292,861.53.
            The report announced that freight and passenger stations had been established at 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     and 
                        Shelbyville
                     during the year, besides those already at 
                        Greensburg
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The track had been ballasted with gravel except 18 miles to be finished in the spring,
                    and the route was well supplied with water stations.
            
                    The movement of the trains upon the road has been conducted with remarkable promptness and care,
                        no serious injury having yet occurred to the machinery and none whatever to a passenger.
                
            Judge Dunn died soon after the road was finished, and General T. A. Morris, first mentioned as chief
                    engineer on the Bellefontaine, and to be prominently mentioned in connection with later roads, was
                    elected president in his place. Alexander Worth was secretary and W. S. Hubbard, treasurer, in 1855,
                    and the following were directors: V. Worthington, J. A. Monfort, 
                        Cincinnati
                    ; L. B. Lewis, H. K. Hobbs, 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    ; A. R. Forsyth, 
                        Greensburg
                    ; H. Bates, J. M. Ray, W. H. Morrison, T. A. Morris, 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            
               
                  123
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, Aug. 5, 1869. It will be seen the average rate was about
                        $2 a ton, a mere fraction of the present freight rates.
            
            
            In order to run the trains of the road into 
                        Cincinnati
                     over the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Mississippi
                     from 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     its tracks being of standard gauge, it was necessary to lay a third rail, and this was
                    done pursuant to a contract made by General Morris with the latter company in 1856; and this
                    continued until the company bought the old canal below 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     in 1862, "turned the water out, and built its road into the heart of the
                        city."124 The details of this last move will be given more fully
                    later.
            The cities and towns along the road had a slow, conservative growth in which the railroad figured
                    prominently, as previously shown in the case of Batesville by Mrs. Wycoff. It was an even greater
                    boon to farm products. Jasper H. Sprague, an old resident of 
                        Shelby county
                    , said in 1876: 
                        From the indefatigable industry and perseverance of George H. Dunn, 
                                Shelby county
                             has derived more substantial benefit in her material interests than from the
                            labor of any other single individual in the state. To those who will succeed the present
                            generation, and especially the farmers of 
                                Shelby county
                            , it may be interesting to know that before the construction of railroads corn
                            was a drug on the market at 10c per bushel, wheat 35c to 40c, pork $1.50 to
                            $2 per 100 lbs. net, good beefsteak 2½c to 3c per pound, and other
                            products in proportion.125
                  
                    
                
            John H. Holliday says of the road: 
                        It has been a great benefit to the state in developing and building up the country, and is
                            doing (in 1869) a great deal in aid of the business of the country.126
                  
                    
                
            Some places were naturally to be disillusioned, and Archibald Shaw writes of the city of his abode:
                        
                        Thus 
                                Lawrenceburg
                             bade good bye to its stage lines, its caravans of live stock and long trains of
                            produce. At first, with the advent of the railways it was thought the city would grow by
                            leaps and bounds and it would command the trade of the interior of the state,
                    
                
            but only the larger centers benefited greatly.127
            
            
               
                  124 J. H. Holliday, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, Aug. 5, 1869.
               
                  125
                        Centennial History of 
                                Shelby County
                            , "by a committee of citizens," 1876.
               
                  126
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, Aug. 5, 1869.
               
                  127
                        History of 
                                Dearborn County
                            , 248.
            
            
            No account of the building of the 
                        Cincinnati
                     would be complete without a fitting tribute to George H. Dunn, who held to his dream of
                    a railroad from 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     to 
                        Indianapolis
                     for more than twenty years, under the most discouraging circumstances, and died in 1854
                    just after it was completed and in successful operation. Archibald Shaw, in a personal letter to the
                    writer pays the following fitting tribute to him: 
                        Mr. Dunn was a member of the legislature three different terms, congressman from 1837 to
                            1839, and state treasurer from 1841 to 1844. He was actively engaged during many years
                            pushing the building of this railway; it was called a hobby of his by his friends. He was a
                            man of ability and well educated.128
                  
                    In spite of his ability as an orator and statesman, probably his greatest service to the
                    state was given as president and chief projector of the railroad; and it seems appropriate that on
                    the monument over his grave in the old cemetery in the city of 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     is placed the replica of a railway train.129
            
            INTRODUCTION—PART II
            Dr. B. F. Shambaugh, speaking before the Indiana History Conference in 1922, referred to the middle
                    period of American history which began at the close of the Revolution and ended about 1870. He spoke
                    of the history of Indiana coming well within that period; and the railroad building in that period
                    and the period which followed shows widely different characteristics. It may be said that the middle
                    period in Indiana railroad history ended with the Civil war, and the roads which were built
                    subsequently did not have the pioneer glamour of the building of the earlier ones. The chief
                    characteristics of the later period are hectic financing and its consequences.
            R. L. Barnum, writing in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star, December 16, 1923, describes this period well: 
                  
                     128 Mr. Shaw was a classmate of the writer's father in
                            "Old Asbury," now DePauw university.
                  
                     129 Archibald Shaw, History of 
                                    Dearborn County
                                , 350.
               
                    
                    
                        In those days a railroad president had the power of a king. Rates were made and unmade
                            overnight. If one railroad wanted to buy another, the deal was made public when the
                            presidents involved so desired and not sooner. To go to the government to get permission to
                            issue new bonds or stock was as unheard of as asking for authority to change a freight rate.
                            If the records are consulted as far back as the days of Jay Gould it will be found that
                            railroads changed hands mostly for stock jobbing purposes. In the days of Cassatt control of
                            railroads was acquired wholesale to stop freight rate cutting. Harriman bought up one
                            railroad after another for the power it gave his own road, the Union Pacific.
                    This was characteristic of railroads all over the west and middle west especially; and if
                    some of the railroad finance described in the following sketches seems wildly speculative and
                    foolhardy, it must be remembered that it was the financing characteristic of the time; and that
                    where roads in Indiana went into bankruptcy, under more auspicious conditions men like James J. Hill
                    and E. H. Harriman made great fortunes by scarcely less conservative methods.
            Dr. Logan Esarey in his History of Indiana, has well analyzed the fundamental cause
                    for the railroad troubles in the state following the Civil war. He speaks of the great expansion in
                    railroads from 1850 to 1860, and then the great expansion in agriculture from 1860 to 1880, due to
                    the improvements in farm machinery and the large number of men coming back from the Civil war and
                    going to work on the farms. There was a steady decline in prices after the Civil war, and this
                    decline was general in farm produce, since he produced statistics to show that the amount of
                    agricultural products for the country at large averaged from two to three times as much in 1880 as
                    it was in 1860.
            
                    On the other hand freight rates refused to respond to the general decline. Tempted by the rush of
                        settlers to the northwest, the railroads, having extended their lines farther than sound
                        business would warrant, found it necessary to hold rates up or go bankrupt, and many did
                    both.
                
            J. Q. Van Winkle, assistant to the vice-president of the Big Four, spoke of the over-expansion of
                    railroads in this period.
            
                    Nearly all the present Big Four lines in the state were built by then,  and there was not enough traffic to keep them all prosperous. I can
                        remember when one combination freight and passenger train a day each way took care of all the
                        business on the Bellefontaine between here and Union City, and this was true of other roads as
                        well.
                
            By keeping pace with the development of the territory it serves, according to Mr. Van Winkle, the Big
                    Four does about eight times the business it did even when it was first organized in 1889, with the
                    same lines of road.
            So, it will be the writer's purpose to feature chiefly the "frenzied
                    finance" in the building of the roads covered by the following sketches. They lack some of
                    the romance of the pioneer period, but they have romance—for there is a sort of
                    "over the hills and far away" fascination to railroading which makes it a romantic
                    subject at any time or period.
            THE INDIANAPOLIS, CINCINNATI AND LAFAYETTE
            From the time of their building until after the Civil war the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                     and the 
                        Lafayette
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     were separate roads and reasonably prosperous. Some time before the Civil war, however,
                    Henry C. Lord became president of the former road. A practical railroad man who later rendered good
                    service as president of the Belt railroad of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , his administration of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                     nevertheless almost wrecked the line. This period was marked by the loose financing and
                    the inflation in securities characteristic of railroads at that period, and at the same time Mr.
                    Lord indulged in some impractical yet stupendous visions that would have been a credit to the
                    well-known Col. Sellers of Mark Twain. The throes which the two railroads passed through after they
                    were merged, the final readjustment and the changes which took place in their ownership and control
                    until they were finally absorbed in the Big Four, will form the subject matter for this sketch.
            The first step of what later was a great program of over-expansion of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                     occurred when they in 1862 "bought the canal below 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , turned the water out and built the road into the heart of 
                        Cincinnati
                    ."1
                     It was largely instrumental in the building of the 
                        Cincinnati
                     and Indiana railroad incorporated April 18, 1863, and which built the line from 
                        Cincinnati
                     to the 
                        Ohio
                     state line, being opened for traffic December 13, 1863.2
            
            The extension of the road from 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     to the state line was finished in 1863, and formed a connection with the 
                        Cincinnati
                     and Indiana, "whose road it operated, under contract, from December 13, 1863,
                    to February 14, 1867."3 About the same time came the Harrison Branch
                    project. William Dwight and Henry C. Lord entered into an agreement, dated July 21, 1863, whereby
                    the 
                        Cincinnati
                     and Indiana constructed a branch line between Harrison and Valley Junction, 
                        Ohio
                    , which was opened to traffic January 1, 1864, and operated until February 14, 1867, by
                    the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                    .4
            
            Next came the Whitewater Valley Railroad company, incorporated June 8, 1865, under the general laws
                    of Indiana. The object was to build a line from Harrison, 
                        Ohio
                    , to 
                        Hagerstown
                    , Indiana, there to make connection with other roads for 
                        Chicago
                    , which was done. The capital stock was fixed at $2,000,000—20,000
                    shares of $100 each. The directors were seven in number, the first directorate being
                    William Dwight, Henry C. Lord, Robert M. Shoemaker, Thomas A. Morris, John A. Farquhar, James Gaff,
                    and Lewis Worthington. Their line, with its southern terminal at 
                        Harrison
                    , was to be connected with the main line of the 
                        Cincinnati
                     and Indiana at Valley Junction by the Harrison branch road. Although in the litigation
                    over the other roads several years later, Henry C. Lord denied that they had owned the Whitewater
                    Valley company, yet the directorate shows that it was controlled and probably financed by the same
                    interests which owned and controlled the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                     and the 
                        Cincinnati
                     and Indiana. They bought the Whitewater canal and built their track along the tow-path
                    all the way to 
                        Hagerstown
                    . The purchase price was $137,348.12 and it is likely that Mr. Lord had this
                    move in view when the Harrison Branch was built, 
                  
                     1 John H. Holliday, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Aug. 5, 1869.
                  
                     2 Annual Reports, N. Y. C. Lines, 1917, p. 459.
                  
                     3 Annual Reports, N. Y. C. Lines, 1917, p. 449.
                  
                     4 Annual Reports, N. Y. C. Lines, 1917, p. 452.
               
                     as the entire distance of the canal was sold to the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                     in 1863 for $63,000, and the sale later was set aside by court action.5
            
            Thus passed out of existence as a transportation medium one of the most picturesque internal
                    improvements of pioneer Indiana—the Whitewater canal. It was agitated as early as 1822,
                    made a part of the great Internal Improvements act of 1836, with an appropriation of
                        $1,400,000.6 Even the failure of the state finances did not stop
                    the building of the canal, which was finished to 
                        Cambridge
                     City in 1845 at a cost of $743,000, and to 
                        Hagerstown
                     in 1847.7 Great celebrations attended its opening, and many
                    interesting and colorful tales are told of the traffic along its route. At the time it was built,
                    there was a great argument over the comparative merits of railroads and canals. Even the very
                    slowness of canal boats for passenger traffic was an argument advanced in their favor, as people
                    could hold dances and social functions on canal boats and have all the pleasures of home.8 Canals, it was argued, could be constructed more cheaply than railroads and
                    were less subject to decay, and a rather demogogic argument was that in building railroads 
                        eastern capital had to be borrowed and money sent to 
                                England
                             for rails, whereas canals were more in the hands of the people and a man may
                            put his own boat and horses on the canal for a comparatively small rate of toll.9
                  
                    However, the period of about 1830 was one of "the rising of the masses",
                    as ably described by Claude G. Bowers in his Party Battles of the Jackson Period,
                    and such an appeal then had considerable weight.
            Yet there were arguments advanced in favor of railroads at the same time. Railroads did not require
                    the expensive repairs of canals, and could be used all the year, while canals were not navigable
                    part of the year on account of freezing.10
                    
                  
                     5 Barrows, History of 
                                    Fayette County
                                , 279.
                  
                     6 Margaret Duden, Indiana Magazine of History, 1909,
                            p. 164.
                  
                     7 Margaret Duden, Indiana Magazine of History, 1909,
                            p. 164.
                  
                     8 Levering, Historic Indiana, 232-3.
                  
                     9 Blank, Early Railroad Building in Indiana.
                  
                  
                     10 Blank, Early Railroad Building in Indiana.
                  
               
                     While some tried to make the slower speed of canals an
                    advantage, the advantage of "more than double the speed of canals", which was
                    possible by freight trains, was pointed out to shippers.11 The Hon. Seth M.
                    Leavenworth, writing in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal, March 20, 1827, in favor of railroads against canals, described a 
                        self-moving machine called a locomotive engine which is placed upon a wagon and moves the
                            wagon on which it is placed and likewise a train of wagons attached to it which contains the
                            lading. It is capable of moving at the rate of 8 or 9 miles an hour with 90 tons of
                        lading.
                    He points out that railroads 
                        may be made upon uneven ground, may pass through a hilly country as well as a level one.
                            There is no limit to the business that can be upon them. They may be covered with wagons all
                            moving with one uniform velocity. They are not stopped with ice in winter or drought in
                            summer, neither do they, like canals, render their vicinity sickly in the summer season.
                    He takes issue with the statement that canals could be constructed cheaper than railroads,
                    pointing out that "in 
                        England
                     railroads are constructed for one-third or one-half the expense of a
                        canal."12
            
            Though railroads had their champions in the early days of Indiana, few regarded them as competitors
                    of waterways, but "at the best they could be used only as feeders for those highways
                    (canals, rivers and lakes)."13 Few had the vision of Gov. James Brown
                    Ray, that staunch champion of railroads, who in his message of 1829 urged a railroad from 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     up the Whitewater Valley, crossing the National road in 
                        Wayne county
                    , and from thence proceeding to Fort 
                        Wayne
                    .14 Finally, however, the growth of agriculture and industry in
                    Indiana demanded transportation facilities of greater volume, speed and dependability than the
                    canals furnished, so they were gradually supplanted by railroads. As Mrs. Ellen Semple says,
                    "the strategy of transportation patronage lay in the question of reloading", and
                    she also refers to a canal's "limitations 
                  
                     11 Blank, Early Railroad Building in Indiana.
                  
                  
                     12
                            Readings in Indiana History, Indiana University Extension Division, 358.
                  
                     13 Editorial, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, June 1, 1869.
                  
                     14 Blank, Early Railroad Building in Indiana.
                  
               
                     due to shallow draft vessels and the short open
                        season."15
            
            The Whitewater canal was the first in the state to be supplanted by a railroad. All the elements
                    mentioned above precipitated its failure, and one other. The Whitewater valley possesses steep
                    wooded hills along its sides, which give it a scenic beauty which rivals the Mohawk valley of 
                        New York
                     even the Moselle valley in Europe, but which are the cause of frequent and serious
                    floods. According to Dr. Esarey, a flood in 1847 did $100,000 worth of damage to the
                    Whitewater canal, and 
                        the repairs in the flood in the next year cost $80,000. The Whitewater valley
                            railroad paralleled it in 1865, and forever put it out of business.16
                  
                    
                
            The railroad was constructed, opened for traffic July 21, 1868, and enthusiasm was roused all along
                    the line.17
            
            
                    so people of 
                            Brookville
                         were naturally delighted when the railroad was completed thus far.
                
            John C. Shirk, of 
                        Brookville
                    , sends the following, of interest in connection with the road's coming to that
                    town: 
                        I was a small boy when the railroad was completed to 
                                Brookville
                            , but I can remember some of the things that occurred at that time.
                        The canal gave satisfactory service when operating, but the trouble was frequent rains and
                            freshets carried away the dams and often washed out long distances of the canal banks, so
                            that the expense of keeping it up was so great that it did not pay to keep it in repair. It
                            was at this time the company sold the canal to the Big Four railroad. 
                                Brookville
                             had for some time been without transportation facilities to 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                  
                        A celebration was had and a general jubilee. Immediately a very large excursion was run to 
                                Cincinnati
                            .18
                  
                    
                
            The road was operated by the 
                  Indianapolis,
                            Cincinnati
                and 
                        Lafayette
                    , or its receivers, from its completion until May 1, 1871. 
                  
                     15
                            American History and Its Geographical Conditions, 386.
                  
                     16
                            History of Indiana, Vol. I, 376.
                  
                     17 N. Y. C. Lines, Annual Reports, 1917, p. 456.
                  
                     18 Mr. Shirk was suggested to the writer by George Price, of the
                            Mechanical Engineer's office, 
                                Beech Grove
                            , whose father helped in the construction of the road.
               
                    
                    
                        From May 1, 1871, to March 5, 1875, the company operated its own line, and also operated
                            under contract the Harrison Branch railroad, extending from Valley Junction to Harrison, 
                                Ohio
                            , and also, during part of 1874 operated under lease the 
                                Cincinnati
                             and Whitewater Valley railroad extending from Valley Junction to North Bend, 
                                Ohio
                            .19
                  
                    
            
            The fortunes of the Whitewater Valley road were so bound up for years with those of the
                            
                  Indianapolis, Cincinnati
                and 
                        Lafayette
                    , that its later experiences and trials will be related in connection with that line.
            After getting under way the Whitewater Valley line of road, President Lord next turned to the 
                        Cincinnati
                     and Martinsville railroad. This had its beginnings in one of the old lines of railroad
                    in Indiana, the 
                        Martinsville
                     and 
                        Franklin
                    . This road was incorporated by special act of the legislature, January 20, 1846,
                    amended in 1847 and 1851. The minutes of the meetings of its commissioners, as the directors were
                    called, have been preserved in the secretary of state's office. While it is only 26 miles
                    from Martinsville to 
                        Franklin
                    , they had great faith in their railroad, though on May 13, 1848, the subscriptions
                    amounted to only $27,650, consisting of cash, $13,850, labor
                    $2,400, materials $2,750, and real estate $8,650. Still, they had
                    opened subscription offices in Martinsville, Morgantown, 
                        Williamsburg
                    , 
                        Vernon
                    , 
                  Madison, Cincinnati, Bloomington
               , Mt.
                    Taber and Gosport; and we read the following in the minutes of the meeting of May 1, 1848: 
                        On motion of John Eccles, the following resolutions were adopted:
                        
                     Resolved, that Col. John Vawter be and he is hereby appointed solicitor for
                            the subscription of stock to the 
                                Martinsville
                             and 
                                Franklin
                             Railroad Company, and that he be requested to take with him when on his tour to
                            the Whig national convention, to be holden at 
                                Philadelphia
                             in June next, a subscription book, and that he use his best endeavors to obtain
                            stock in the city of 
                                Philadelphia
                             as well as in all the cities he may visit on his tour aforesaid, and that he be
                            authorized to take with him the book which has been deposited at 
                                Vernon
                             for the purpose of receiving subscriptions, and that he be allowed a reasonable
                            compensation for his services, to be credited on the books of the company as stock.
                    
                
            The road was finally opened to traffic May 17, 1853, was operated by the 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     from that date to
            
               
                  19 N. Y. C. Lines, Annual Reports, 1917, p. 456.
            
            
            May 17, 1858, under a five-year lease.20 The cost of the road is given in the Railway Times in January, 1854, as $590,000. In those days it was a
                    typical old-fashioned "jerk-water" road, and once "when the engineer hit
                    up the train to twenty-five miles an hour, the great alarm of the passengers" caused the
                    superintendent, who was on the train, to take charge of the engine in person. The following incident
                    of travel on the 
                        Martinsville
                     and 
                        Franklin
                     is related by E. C. Thompson of 
                        Edinburg
                     and 
                        Irvington
                    : 
                        The crew got off at a switch and helped themselves to apples in a nearby orchard. As they
                            were helping themselves to fruit a man and woman came down from the adjacent farmhouse and
                            Thompson expected them to make a protest against the trespass. On the contrary, the man made
                            them welcome, evidently being glad to see visitors, and the woman sealed the friendliness by
                            delivering to the conductor some samples of dry goods asking him to match them at 
                                Martinsville
                             and bring back her money's worth on his return. The conductor accepted
                            the samples and the commission, and in due time they ambled on.21
                  
                    
                
            After the 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     ceased operating it, the line did little business. On October 19, 1858, it was
                    abandoned, and sold on May 19, 1859, under foreclosure by the 
                        United States
                     marshal to 
                        Franklin
                     Nichols, who with his associates reorganized it as the 
                        Franklin
                     and Martinsville.22 Still the line lay idle until September 20,
                    1865, when 
                        the stockholders of the company and citizens living along its lines entered into an agreement
                            with Gen. Ambrose E. Burnside, whereby the latter received all the capital stock of the 
                                Franklin
                             and Martinsville Railroad company and various contributions from the citizens,
                            in consideration for which he agreed to rebuild the road and extend it to a connection with
                            the 
                                Indianapolis
                             and 
                                Cincinnati
                             railroad. On September 26, 1865, under general laws of the state of Indiana,
                            General Burnside and associates caused the incorporation of the 
                                Cincinnati
                             and Martinsville Railroad company.23
                  
                    
                
            Few who are familiar with General Burnside's brilliant record as commander of the Ninth
                    corps in the Army of the 
                  
                     20 N. Y. C. Lines, Annual Reports, 1917, p. 451.
                  
                     21
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, July 8, 1922.
                  
                     22 N. Y. C. Lines, Annual Reports, 1917, p. 451.
                  
                     23 N. Y. C. Lines, Annual Reports for 1917, p. 452.
               
                     Potomac during the Civil war or who remember from his portraits
                    the famous side-whiskers which have given their prototypes everywhere the name of
                    "Burnsides", know that after the Civil war he returned to Indiana and engaged in
                    the building of railroads. The 
                        Cincinnati
                     and Martinsville was only one of the roads with which he was prominently identified; he
                    figured largely in the building of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Vincennes
                    , the 
                        Cairo
                     and 
                        Vincennes
                    , and other roads.
            On the same day the 
                        Cincinnati
                     and Martinsville was incorporated, the board of directors authorized an extension from 
                        Franklin
                     to 
                        Fairland
                    , just north of 
                        Shelbyville
                    , where it connected with the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                    .24 It reconstructed the line from 
                        Franklin
                     to Martinsville and also put through the 
                        Fairland
                     addition, and the rejuvenated line was completed June 14, 1866. It is significant that
                    from this date forward the road was operated by the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                     and its successors, thus becoming a link in their program of expansion. The latter were
                    heavily interested in the construction and operation of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Vincennes
                    , which joined their main line at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and the 
                        Cincinnati
                     and Martinsville at 
                        Martinsville
                    , and which was built in 1869. This matter will be considered in more detail later.
            Finally, the biggest move for the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                     was the acquisition of the 
                        Lafayette
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                    . According to J. P. Dunn, Henry C. Lord started a rival road from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                        Crawfordsville
                     in 1866, and the fear of the competition it would cause largely influenced the 
                        Lafayette
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     to sell out.25 Though admitting the accuracy of Mr. Dunn as a
                    historian, C. R. Myers, general agent of the Big Four, does not think that this line was the whole
                    cause of them selling to the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                    , as the two roads do not really serve the same territory. Whatever the cause, Mr. Lord
                    dropped the new line as soon as he acquired the 
                        Lafayette
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and local capitalists 
                  
                     24
                            Ibid., 452.
                  
                     25
                            Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 254.
               
                     finished it. It is now part of the Peoria and Eastern, and as
                    such will be considered in a later sketch.
            The consolidation of the two roads became effective February 14, 1867, with the agreement that all
                    officers and directors on both lines were to continue to the end of their terms.26 A bond issue, evidently to finance the consolidation of the roads, was authorized in the
                    articles of consolidation, to the amount of $2,800,000, secured by a deed of trust which
                    gave the bond holders a first lien on the property of the 
                        Lafayette
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                    . William F. Reynolds, president of the 
                        Lafayette
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                    , was appointed trustee and agent for these bonds, and the stockholders of that road
                    were given the privilege of taking bonds in lieu of the stock of the consolidated company. The name
                    of the consolidated company was the 
                  Indianapolis,
                            Cincinnati
                and 
                        Lafayette
                     Railroad company. So, the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                     had absorbed the 
                        Lafayette
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and secured control through ownership or operation of the following roads: 
                        
                     
                                Cincinnati
                             and Indiana
                        Whitewater Valley
                        
                     
                                Cincinnati
                             and Martinsville
                        Harrison Branch
                        
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             and 
                                Vincennes
                             (partial ownership).
                    
                
            The effect of this expansion was showing plainly for the worse by 1870. Holloway's 
                  
                            Indianapolis
                        , written about that time, says that the road "in attempting too much,
                    broke down."27 The following tonnage statement from the same work,28 covering the operations of the 
                  Indianapolis, Cincinnati
                and 
                        Lafayette
                     during 1870, tends to show that Dr. Esarey and Mr. Van Winkle are right in their
                    statements that the business of the early roads was mostly supplied from the farms and country towns
                    of the state, and that the expansion of the railroads after the Civil war was greater than the
                    amount of this business warranted.
            
               
                  26 N. Y. C. Lines, Annual Reports, 1917, p. 450.
               
                  27
                        Ibid., 330.
               
                  28
                        Ibid., 336.
            
            
            
               
                   
                  Whole line
                  Forward, from 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Recieved 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
               
               
                  Bushels Corn
                  737,020
                  111,684
                  53,554
               
               
                  Bushels Wheat
                  1,124,085
                  146,253
                  333,879
               
               
                  Bushels oats
                  197,186
                  72,519
                  13,600
               
               
                  Bushels Rye & Barley
                  202,953
                  17,755
                  18,009
               
               
                  Tons Iron
                  14,333
                  2,958
                  7,427
               
               
                  Cars Coal
                  3,211
                  267
                  497
               
               
                  Cars Lumber
                  4,901
                  499
                  2,080
               
               
                  Cars Staves
                  2,235
                  104
                  1,083
               
               
                  Cars Shingles
                  226
                  4
                  88
               
               
                  Cars Hoop Poles
                  90
                  8
                  45
               
               
                  Cars Stone and Lime
                  3,273
                  22
                  1,873
               
               
                  Cars Horses
                  413
                  99
                  177
               
               
                  Cars Cattle & Sheep
                  1,328
                  499
                  179
               
               
                  Cars Hogs
                  3,195
                  945
                  367
               
               
                  Barrels Flour
                  292,298
                  68,754
                  42,297
               
               
                  Barrels Whiskey
                  61,367
                  6,182
                  12,347
               
               
                  Barrels Salt
                  74,326
                  1,718
                  24,187
               
               
                  Barrels Pork & Lard
                  9,887
                  949
                  794
               
               
                  Barrels Tallow & Grease
                  6,410
                  2,252
                  88
               
               
                  Tierces Pork & Lard
                  9,842
                  3,154
                  181
               
               
                  Tierces Tallor & Grease
                  
                            1,363
                        
                  
                            824
                        
                  
                            1
                        
               
               
                  Pounds frt., all kinds
                  923,763,050
                  134,994,653
                  243,901
               
            
            The financial statement of February 1, 1870, shows the desperate straits of the company.29 The capital stock was $5,685,497.50 (probably some of this stock
                    was watered), and the funded debt had reached the enormous total of $7,358,-931.36. The
                    total earnings for the year had been $1,921,-274.26, but operating expenses, taxes, etc.,
                    were $1,213,781.31, and interest had been paid on bonds and bills amounting to
                    $538,511.18. This left less than $200,000, whereas bills payable came to
                    $475,628.51, and "other liabilities", $200,000. The
                    officers, given in the statement, were as follows: President, H. C. Lord; vice-president, W. W.
                    Smith; treasurer, W. T. Boaz; superintendent, J. F. Richardson, all of 
                        Cincinnati
                    ; assistant superintendent, H. L. Hall, 
                        Lafayette
                    ; master mechanic, H. M. Britton; general ticket agent, A. E. Clark; general freight
                    agent, H. J. Page; purchasing agent, G. L.
            
               
                  29 Poor, Manual of Railroads, 1870–1.
            
            
            Barringer, all of 
                        Cincinnati
                    ; directors, T. A. Morris, 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; A. R. Forsyth, 
                        Greensburg
                    ; L. P. Lewis, 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    ; H. C. Lord, W. W. Smith, William A. Booth, 
                        Cincinnati
                    ; John S. Kennedy, George Bliss, 
                        New York
                     City; Joseph S. Fay, 
                        Boston
                    . The general offices, it is seen, were at 
                        Cincinnati
                    ; the shops had been removed from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to that city about 1861, and from 
                        Lafayette
                     after the consolidation with the 
                        Lafayette
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                    .30 However, though there are several shops in 
                        Cincinnati
                     today, the division has car shops at Hill Yards, in the extreme southeast part of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and also shops at 
                        Lafayette
                    .
            The road went into the hands of receivers early in 1871, to be followed by two suits in bankruptcy
                    against it within a very short time. The first was the petition of J. F. Richardson, et al., filed
                    May 5, 1871. In this petition the following claims were presented for adjudication: A note of the
                    company for $4061.84 to the order of Joel F. Richardson, a note of the company for
                    $16,300 to Henry C. Lord and indorsed by him to Zephaniah Heustis, and 18 notes or
                    vouchers ranging from $3100 to $12,000 each, payable to Eri Richardson. The
                    petitioners alleged that the company had committed the following acts of bankruptcy:
            
               On November 17, 1870, assets of the value of more than $2,000,000 to be and being
                        all of the property of said corporation in said State of 
                            Ohio
                         to be taken possession of by receivers appointed by the court of common pleas of 
                            Hamilton county
                        , Thomas A. Morris and William T. Boaz, defendant plaintiffs, intending to defeat
                        the bankruptcy act.
               About August 25, 1871, in order to satisfy a debt they owed to the Whitewater Valley Railroad
                        company for about $60,000, they transferred "certain assets of the
                        company" consisting of $10,000 in cash, various supplies of the company,
                        which were listed in detail amounting to about $20,000, a claim of about
                        $20,000 against Greenwood and Smith, a large number of engines and cars leased to
                        them for three months without cost, and materials and supplies given to them for use
                        "with intent to give preference to the said Whitewater Valley railroad and to defeat
                        the operation of said bankruptcy act."
               From March 1, 1871, to the end of April, 1871, the company's property in the State of
                        Indiana was taken in by receivers, Thomas A. Morris and Melville E. Ingalls, appointed by the
                        civil court in 
                            Marion
                        
                        
                     
                        30 Holliday, 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                                Sentinel, Aug. 5, 1869.
                  
                         county, which act was alleged to have been done
                        "with the intention to defeat the operation of said bankruptcy act."
               On December 16, 1870, the company, "being a manufacturer", suspended payment
                        of the note mentioned previously, which was made out to Henry C. Lord and indorsed by him to
                        Zephaniah Heustis.
               The company, being insolvent, made a payment of $20,913.41 to the executors of
                        Nicholas Longworth in full for their indebtedness as preferred creditors to defeat the operation
                        of the bankruptcy law.
            
            The petition of the city of 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , filed July 3, 1871, is much shorter and simpler. The city of 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     had issued $25,000 worth of bonds at 6% interest, payable in
                    twenty years, and dated February 15, 1851, for 558 shares of the capital stock of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                    ; mention of this issue was made in the sketch on the early history of that road. The
                    company later bought back 556, or all but two, of these shares, under the conditions that it was to
                    keep up the interest on the bonds and to deliver them at maturity to the city. Meanwhile, the bonds
                    matured February 15, 1871, the company failed to redeem them, and the city of 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     had some interest to pay on them. The city took up one of the bonds for
                    $1000 from a Mrs. Moore, in order that they could proceed in bankruptcy against the
                            
                  Indianapolis, Cincinnati
                and 
                        Lafayette
                    . Its principal allegation was that on June 5, 1871, a petition to remove the receivers
                    was set aside by the 
                        Marion
                     civil court, continuing the receivers in possession of the property "with
                    intent to delay, hinder and defraud its creditors." The road filed denials of both
                    petitions, of that of J. F. Richardson, et al., on May 12, 1871, and that of the city of 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     on July 12, 1871. John F. Richards, as mayor, acted for the city of 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    .
            The case was a long and bitterly fought one, and the pleadings and evidence may be found in book form
                    in the Indiana State library. Walter Q. Gresham, later secretary of state under President 
                        Cleveland
                    , was judge of the 
                        United States
                     district court at the time, so the case was tried before him. John D. Howland was clerk
                    and Benjamin J. Spooner 
                        United States
                     marshal for the court. The array of legal talent was very imposing, and included Henry
                    Crawford of 
                        Chicago
                    , Ray  and Davidson of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , George E. Pugh, D. T. Wright, and Matthews and Ramsey, of 
                        Cincinnati
                    ; John Swartz and Carter Gazlay of 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , for the petitioners; Hoadly, Jackson and Johnson of 
                        Cincinnati
                    ; Hendricks, Hord and Hendricks, McDonald, Butler and McDonald, and Porter, Harrison and
                    Hines, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; and J. D. Cox and T. D. Lincoln of 
                        Cincinnati
                    , for the defendants. It is significant that among the attorneys for the defendant were
                    three men who either were or later became 
                        United States
                     senators from Indiana—Thomas A. Hendricks, Joseph E. McDonald, and Benjamin
                    Harrison. Of course, Mr. Hendricks later became vice-president and General Harrison, president.
            William W. Smith, vice-president of the railroad company, when on the stand, testified as to the debt
                    of the company. It owed $800,000 in bills payable, besides some "open,
                    unadjusted accounts", a mortgage issued in 1858 for $1,500,000 on the line from 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , a mortgage of $2,800,000 made in 1867 covering the line from state line to 
                        Lafayette
                    , and a third on the line to 
                        Lafayette
                     and some property in 
                        Ohio
                    , issued in 1868 for $2,000,000, besides two mortgages aggregating
                    $2,500,000 of the 
                        Cincinnati
                     and Indiana, largely owned by the 
                  Indianapolis, Cincinnati
                and 
                        Lafayette
                    . All these mortgages had trustees, being made to secure bond issues. The following
                    testimony shows the troubles the company was having: 
                        Q. State whether at that time in October (Oct. 10), 1870, the company was in possession of
                            means to pay its pay roll—its operatives—according to the usual habit.
                        A. Pay-day had been postponed, I think, in October. The treasurer may have had the money, but
                            if so, it was needed for other purposes—to save the company from
                            protest—and was applied to other purposes than the payment of the men.
                        Q. Were the operatives of the road paid in October at the time they were payable, and usually
                            paid?
                        A. I think not.
                        Q. What did the pay roll amount to?
                        A. It was from fifty to sixty thousand dollars a month.
                        Q. Calling your attention to the mortgage liability of the company, state whether or not the
                            company was in default in the payment of interest on its coupons.
                        
                        A. Up to that time, there was a large amount of unpaid coupons, but they were not protested;
                            they were held back and not presented, by agreement. My recollection is that the amount of
                            the coupons at that time was about $175,000 dollars.
                        Q. State whether they were held back from the inability of the company to meet them.
                        A. It was, by agreement.
                        Q. Did the company have the money to pay them when they came due, when the agreement was
                            made?
                        A. Probably the correct answer to that would be that when the agreement to have the coupons
                            held back was made, the money was desired for other purposes. It was a way of making a loan.
                            The company, if it had been pressed, could probably have paid them off by borrowing money or
                            leaving somebody else unpaid.
                        Q. State whether, during the last two or three months preceding the month of October, 1870,
                            the corporation was borrowing money in the city of 
                                Cincinnati
                             from various banks or bankers.
                        A. She was.
                        Q. To a large or small extent?
                        A. Some days she would borrow five thousand, some days as much as twenty-five and on some
                            occasions even as high as thirty or forty thousand dollars.
                        Q. At what rate of interest?
                        A. On the smaller loans—say of five, ten or fifteen thousand
                            dollars—she paid as high as one per cent a month.
                        Q. State whether the loans were call loans or loans on time.
                        A. They were of both kinds. Sometimes there was a commission to be paid, besides the
                            interest.
                        Q. Did there have to be indorsements furnished?
                        A. Always.
                        Q. Who mainly was furnished as indorser by the company?
                        A. At 
                                Cincinnati
                             Mr. Lord was the indorser.
                        Q. Exclusively?
                        A. I might say exclusively.
                        Q. For what use was the money necessary, and to what use was it applied?
                        A. Mainly to carry the floating debt.
                        Q. Explain what you mean by carry.
                        A. We would borrow from one bank to pay another.
                        Q. For what length of time had that continued prior to October, 1870—this habit of
                            borrowing from one party to pay off another?
                        A. The operation of "shinning", as we call it there, had been going on for
                            two or three years.
                    
                
            The move to go voluntarily into the hands of a receiver, according to testimony introduced, was
                    decided upon at a  meeting in the office of Hendricks, Hord and
                    Hendricks in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , October 24, 1870, at which most of the directors were present. "The company
                    was unable to meet demands pressing or to be made shortly, and pay rolls were postponed,"
                    and General Morris and Mr. Boaz resigned their offices to become receivers in 
                        Ohio
                    .
            In support of the second count, the transaction with the Whitewater Valley company, the petitioners
                    introduced as evidence the agreement of January 26, 1871, between the 
                  Indianapolis, Cincinnati
                and 
                        Lafayette
                    , in the hands of receivers, and the Whitewater Valley Railroad company, which read in
                    part as follows: 
                        Now therefore to avoid these dangers (threat of bankruptcy and legal proceedings), which are
                            regarded as ruinous to both parties, and enable the party of the first part (the
                                    
                        Indianapolis, Cincinnati
                      and 
                                Lafayette
                            ) to avoid bankruptcy and the party of the second part (the Whitewater Valley)
                            to regain possession of its railroad and to procure rolling stock, the said parties have
                            mutually agreed to cancel said lease and all the covenants therein contained.
                    The cancellation of the lease, it was stipulated, 
                        shall in no wise effect the right of the party of the second part to the unpaid rent which
                            shall be due and in arrears on said lease on the first of February next.
                    The language of this agreement was so plain that the defense could not very well refute it,
                    but they answered that the claim they held against Greenwood and Smith was of doubtful value, and
                    that they thought the Whitewater Valley people could better collect it.
            Some contention was raised over the fourth count, that the company, "being a
                    manufacturer," suspended payment on a note in question. However, in those days, there was a
                    manufacturer's tax to be paid to the federal government; and the petitioners showed that
                    the company had built cars for Dodge, Lord and company, and introduced the deposition of Deputy
                    Collector of Internal Revenue Brackett, of the 
                        Ohio
                     district, to the effect that the company had paid for a manufacturer's license
                    and also a tax on manufacturer's sales. They were to be considered a manufacturer, Mr.
                    Brackett said, even if they  built cars or locomotives for their
                    own use, and were taxed the same as if they had sold them.
            The matter of the payment to the Longworth estate concerned nine tracts of ground in 
                        Cincinnati
                     used for tracks and various other railroad purposes. The leases contained provisions
                    that in case the rent was not kept up, the estate had a first lien on the property and could
                    re-enter it. The rent was kept up by the company, especially as some of the tracts contained
                    facilities used jointly with other roads, which would lead to serious consequences in case of
                    forfeiture and re-entry by the Longworth heirs.
            The defense introduced evidence to try to discredit the claims of the petitioners, and much of it was
                    directed at Henry C. Lord, president before the receivership. Joel F. Richardson had been paid his
                    salary as superintendent according to Alexander Worth, secretary and later auditor for the
                    receivers; and he said he supposed the notes at issue were for his operation of the 
                        Vincennes
                     road. Asked about this Mr. Richardson testified as follows: 
                        I rented the track of Mr. Branham (the builder) in the first place. Mr. Branham asked me if
                            the 
                        Indianapolis, Cincinnati
                      and 
                                Lafayette
                             Railroad company would not put an engine and some cars and do the business of
                            the 
                                Indianapolis
                             and 
                                Vincennes
                             road, as he finished it; he was building the road. I told him I did not see why
                            they could not; but I consulted with Mr. Lord and he said that it could not be done on any
                            consideration. I asked him the reason, and he said there were contracts that would not allow
                            the 
                        Indianapolis, Cincinnati
                      and 
                                Lafayette
                             road to put their cars on there or run them. I then told him the
                                    
                        Indianapolis, Cincinnati
                      and 
                                Lafayette
                             road ought to secure the business on that line as much as possible; and I then
                            asked him if he would rent me the rolling stock to run it at a fair rate, and he told me
                            that he would. Then I entered into an agreement with Branham & Co. to run the road,
                            and the 
                        Indianapolis, Cincinnati
                      and 
                                Lafayette
                             road furnished me an engine and some passenger and freight cars. I made the
                            agreement with Mr. Lord that the business of the 
                                Vincennes
                             road should be done at our office by our general ticket and freight agents. I
                            ran the road, then, until probably February or March, 1869. The road was in bad condition,
                            and it was wet weather and I saw we were not making much, or not making anything. I saw the
                            road was very bad, and if I happened to ditch a train it would be pretty heavy on me. I said
                            to Mr. Lord: "I am going to give this thing up; I will go and see Branham and tell
                            him I do not want to run it any longer." I told Mr. Lord I was  discouraged; that I was afraid I would make a mishap, run off
                            the track or something of the kind that would cost me a good deal of money. Mr. Lord then
                            said: "This company needs the business, and if you will continue to run it I will
                            back you." Said I: "Do I understand you to say, that you will stand the
                            losses with me?" "Yes," said he. "Well, then,"
                            said I, "you shall have half the profits." Then I went ahead and ran the
                            road until the track was connected under that arrangement—till the track was
                            finished from 
                                Vincennes
                             to 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                    
                
            The witness testified that he and Mr. Lord had at the time "pretty much" settled
                    their accounts; the profits due them, handled by the financial department of the
                            
                  Indianapolis, Cincinnati
                and 
                        Lafayette
                    , amounted to about $26,000 paid in notes. The witness thought he had
                    indorsed over to Mr. Lord enough to pay his share, all of them being made payable to him; and one of
                    these notes, for $13,000, after Mr. Lord's share had been given him, called for
                    payment of 10% interest, the witness "guessed."
            Judge Hoadly, for the defense, introduced as evidence a lease given by the road to J. F. Richardson,
                    whereby he was given a monopoly on the coal to be furnished to the road, from his privately owned
                    elevator at 
                        Cincinnati
                    , and preferential rates in shipping material over its line. Such a lease today would be
                    a flagrant violation of the transportation act, and would bring serious legal consequences to a road
                    making it; as it was, Judge Hoadly introduced it to show that 
                        these receivers were appointed in good faith and through the agency of the stockholders for
                            the purpose of preventing the road from being ruined by a ring of its officers, and further
                            to show that every dollar received by Richardson is money belonging to the company.
                    
                
            Why Mr. Lord issued the note indorsed by him to Zephaniah Heustis was not made entirely clear, but
                    efforts to prove that Mr. Heustis, who was a passenger conductor on the road, with nearly twenty
                    years service to his credit, was a drinker and gambler and had endeavored to interest his fellow
                    conductors in a pool to take $20,000 out of the company money passing through their hands
                    until his claim was satisfied, were not successful.
            
            The notes to Eri Richardson were for wood supplied to the company for their wood-burning locomotives.
                    He had a contract to furnish wood at $3.00 a cord for the line from 
                        Cincinnati
                     to 
                        Indianapolis
                     and $2.75, for the 
                        Lafayette
                     and Martinsville sections, and to furnish cross ties for the road at 35c each, which
                    contract was somewhat elastic in that it allowed for a small advance in price. The testimony of
                    several men who sold him wood for the road did not prove anything of importance, but evidence was
                    introduced to show that Mr. Richardson had bought several hundred acres of land from Henry C. Lord
                    for $13,500, though it was mostly woods and its value was estimated at only about
                    $20 an acre at the time. Therefore, collusion was hinted at between Richardson and Lord,
                    and the defense contended that the "claim was so large that it could not be
                    honest."
            In connection with this wood contract, the testimony of Alexander Worth, former secretary of the
                    company, and at the time auditor for the receivers, is interesting and is partially reproduced:
                        
                        Q. You never told them (the men that sold the wood) that Mr. Richardson was buying their
                            wood.
                        A. Of course not. We had padlocks on our mouths all the time about these things.
                        Q. Who put the padlock on your mouth?
                        A. This corporation has been a close corporation for years—that is a thing
                            understood. That close corporation was made by the stockholders themselves. I was positively
                            forbidden to make known to anybody the contents of my books; I was simply to do my clerical
                            duties.
                        Q. Who put the padlock on your lips?
                        A. Proxies were given every year, and to my astonishment, throwing the whole control of this
                            company and of the road into one man's hands and making it a one-man power. It
                            seemed as if there was a fatality about it; it seemed strange that while these men knew that
                            they were receiving no reports—full, itemized, extensive reports of the doings of
                            this company that had been repeatedly promised them, they still gave their proxies, all
                            combining to establish a certain course of operating the road, one feature of which was:
                            "You operators of the road keep quiet; be still; say nothing; we are in trouble; we
                            are in financial difficulty." That was about it. Out of this thing there grew a
                            close corporation, "known and read of all men" that were interested in
                            this company directly or indirectly.
                        Q. You mean that the company was insolvent and wanted to keep it quiet?
                        
                        A. I did not say that.
                        Q. You mean that it was about to become insolvent?
                        A. I did not say that, either.
                        Q. You mean, then, that the company was in great financial distress?
                        A. Perhaps you would state it in that way.
                        Q. Is that what you mean or not?
                        A. Yes, sir.
                        Q. And they wanted to keep it quiet, so that the public would not find it out—is
                            that it?
                        A. You ask Mr. Lord about that—I suppose he will tell you.
                        Q. Suppose you tell us. You say, for the purpose of keeping that threatened insolvency and
                            that financial embarrassment of the company quiet, you were to keep still—is that
                            the idea?
                        A. That is about it.
                        Q. That is just it, is it not?
                        A. That is about it.
                        Q. That is the "padlock"?
                        A. That is the padlock.
                        Q. You were not literally padlocked then, but to hide this embarrassed condition of the
                            company you were required to keep still and that is what you meant by the padlock?
                        A. Yes, sir; it was not a literal padlock, but a metaphorical padlock.
                        Q. That padlock is removed now?
                        A. Yes.
                        Q. How long since it was taken off?
                        A. It has been eight months now.
                        Q. You now feel quite free?
                        A. I do, indeed, sir.
                        Q. There is no padlock on your lips now?
                        A. No, sir.
                        Q. You feel very free?
                        A. Yes, sir; just like a bird just out of a cage.
                    
                
            The case wore on for several years, and in the meantime the road was first in and then out of the
                    hands of receivers. According to the Annual Reports of the 
                        New York
                     Central lines for 1917, 
                        the road was in the hands of a receiver for three periods aggregating about five years, but
                            including these intervals the road was in this company's (
                        Indianapolis, Cincinnati
                      and 
                                Lafayette
                            's) name from February 14, 1867, to March 6, 1880.31
                  
                    
                    
                  
                     31 p. 450.
               
                     Considerable bitterness was shown at times between some of the
                    men, especially between Henry C. Lord and some of the others. He started the movement in 1872 that
                    led to one of the temporary removals of the receivers, and the two receivers, General Morris and
                    Melville E. Ingalls, made affidavits severely denouncing Mr. Lord. Thereupon the latter made reply,
                    to the effect that 
                        the innuendoes and reflections of the said Morris and Ingalls upon the former management of
                            the said bankrupt railroad by your petitioner have nothing to do with the case before the
                            court, that they are impertinent, irrelevant and intended for the public and not for the
                            court.
                    It was charged that he had not accounted for some of the bonds entrusted to him to sell, and
                    had conspired with others to depreciate the stock of the company so it could be bought cheap, which
                    he denied. He in turn charged that Mr. Ingalls tried to interest the important financial house of
                    Perkins, Livingston and Post of 
                        New York
                     in joining him "in a private scheme", and that the receivers had
                    caused him (Mr. Lord) to be sued on a fictitious claim, 
                        to intimidate and discredit him, to alarm the creditors of the company, and to force your
                            petitioner into acquiescence in the wrongful designs of the receivers.
                    He also made the following statement: 
                        This petitioner further states that, in January, 1871, he was informed by Judge George
                            Hoadly, of counsel for said receivers, that if he would secure to the creditors of said
                            railroad company, holding his indorsement, the sum of twenty per cent. of their said claims,
                            the said receivers, assisted by said Hoadly, would secure his release from his said
                            indorsements, and that the company would make up the said amount to him in income bonds at
                            par. This petitioner thereupon agreed to said proposition, but the said receivers and their
                            counsel wholly failed to carry out said agreement, or any part thereof, and your petitioner
                            was, in the meantime, sued by sundry creditors of the company upon his said indorsements,
                            and threatened with other suits by other creditors holding such indorsements, and subjected
                            to great annoyance and expense, and his property placed in great hazard, so that he was in
                            instant peril of being forced into bankruptcy, and the said Hoadly then advised him to file
                            a voluntary petition in bankruptcy.
                        And this petitioner further replies that, in the month of April, 1871, the said Hoadly called
                            upon the petitioner, and after stating to him  that he
                            (Hoadly) knew nothing of the state of accounts between said company and himself, asked the
                            consent of this petitioner to the bringing of a sham suit by said railroad company against
                            himself for a half million dollars, stating that the stockholders wanted by that means, to
                            alarm the creditors of the company holding the indorsement of his petitioner, so that they
                            would accept for their claims such terms of compromise as might be offered to them by said
                            company, or the said Morris and Ingalls. This petitioner failed to recognize either the
                            honesty or expediency of the proposed transaction, and refused to lend his aid to any such
                            scheme.
                    
                
            He accused Judge Hoadly and others of buying claims at a discount and also depreciating the
                    company's capital stock. According to the agreement of June 1, 1871, the unsecured floating
                    debt of the company was to be paid by income bonds, and this declared to be 
                        about $1,500,000, whereas according to a printed report of the receivers in
                            November, 1871, it was declared to be less than $750,000.
                    He characterized as "false and scandalous" charges of personal interest in
                    the contract for the operation of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Vincennes
                     railroad, and the contract with Eri Richardson for fuel and cross ties, and also the
                    charges of fraud in connection with the lease of the Whitewater Valley railroad and the Harrison
                    Branch road, and had the following to say in the matter: 
                        And your petitioner further replies, according to the best of his knowledge and belief, that
                            the act of the receivers, in cancelling the lease of said Harrison Branch, was an outrage
                            upon the stockholders and creditors of said bankrupt company; that said lease was then
                            largely profitable to said company, and daily becoming more profitable, and that said
                            Whitewater Valley Railroad company, taking a wise advantage of the folly of said receivers,
                            has since taken a lease of said branch, paying therefor an annual rental equivalent to
                            nearly sixteen per cent. on the cost thereof; that the said lease of the Whitewater Valley
                            railroad was a wise and judicious one, destined to have been a very profitable one,
                            essential to the protection of the 
                        Indianapolis, Cincinnati
                     
                            and 
                                Lafayette
                             railroad in all her western and northwestern traffic, and that in cancelling
                            it, said receivers have surrendered solid and permanent advantages, and opened and aided a
                            railway line which is destined to prove its most dangerous and successful competitor for all
                            the trade between 
                                Cincinnati
                             and the north and northwest, whereas, if 
                            operated and controlled by said bankrupt company, it would have been equally a source of
                            profit and a means of protection.
                    
                
            The desperate straits of the company are shown in the annual report for 1875. It still operated the 
                        Cincinnati
                     and Indiana and the Whitewater Valley roads, but announced that 
                        the stockholders and bondholders of this company are in litigation and this contract is
                            liable to be terminated by such litigation; so far it has cost us nothing, neither have we
                            received much profit.
                    
                
            The company had issued funded debt bonds to the stockholders in 1873 in settlement of their claims;
                    but it was not possible even to pay the interest falling due on them January 1, 1876, so they were
                    changed to preferred stock in order that steps could be taken to provide for some 
                        Cincinnati
                     and Indiana bonds about to become due. Though operating expenses had been reduced from
                    64.43% to 59.77% due to the reduced cost of labor and materials, there had
                    been a loss in freight business due to the depression in business and "the opening of the 
                        Chicago
                     division of the 
                        Baltimore
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     railroad." A new system of accounts had been installed which make the balance
                    sheet look even modern, and the books were audited by "Richard Wilson, public accountant of 
                        Cincinnati
                    ." This is the first time that a public accountant had been mentioned in
                    connection with the road; this was a new profession at the time. The profit and loss account, which
                    shows most vividly the troubles the road was having, is as follows:
            
               
                  Debit
               
               
                  To balance, June 30, 1874
                  $9,500.51
               
               
                  Operating Expenses
                  1,056,312.43
               
               
                  Taxes
                  39,938.66
               
               
                  Interest on floating debt
                  33,542.60
               
               
                  Bond interest, 
                                Cincinnati
                             and Indiana
                  
                            650,699.50
                        
               
               
                   
                  $1,789,993.70
               
               
                  Credit
               
               
                  Gross earnings
                  $1,767,231.41
               
               
                  To balance
                  
                            22,762.29
                        
               
               
                   
                  $1,789,993.70
               
            
            
            It will be seen that the earnings were large, but that taxes and interest were making such inroads on
                    the finances that a deficit of $9500.51 had been increased to $22,762.29 by
                    the year's work. In fact, taxes had increased $9,616.05, interest on the
                    floating debt $8,230.27 and bonded interest $36,000. The troubles the company
                    was having with taxes reminds one of the high railroad taxes of today. The taxes of some roads
                    amount to almost as much as their dividends, and Mr. C. R. Myers, general agent for the Big Four,
                    says that 55,000 passenger fares to 
                        Cincinnati
                     are necessary to pay the annual taxes for that road in 
                        Marion county
                    , Indiana, alone.
            The road in 1875 had 1160 cars, consisting of 727 box cars, 49 stock cars, 66 coal cars, 289 flat
                    cars, 2 tool cars, 2 camp cars and 25 caboose cars. During the year it had renewed 85,300
                    cross-ties, had laid five and one-fourth miles of steel rails (they were just coming into use then),
                    which made twenty-seven and one-half miles of steel rail in the company's tracks, and they
                    renewed twenty-four miles of iron. The extra cost of four hundred and fifty-one tons of steel over
                    an equal amount of iron was $9,259, and besides, the cost of new side tracks for the year
                    past was $2649.
            Some interesting facts about the equipment at the time is revealed in various places in the report of
                    the evidence in the bankruptcy case. The value of locomotives then in use was placed at
                    $4000 to $5000 apiece; "now a standard Big Four freight engine costs
                    $71,725 and a standard passenger engine $61,200," says Mr. Myers.
                    Second class passenger cars were worth only about $2500 apiece and baggage cars which had
                    been "used a good while" were worth $1700. Freight rates then were
                    still much lower than those of today. J. F. Richardson testified that under his supervision of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Vincennes
                     road it had turned over to the 
                  Indianapolis, Cincinnati
                and 
                        Lafayette
                     as freight an average of about four carloads a day, yielding an average revenue of
                    about $100 a day.32 This meant only about $25 a car; and
                    allowing a minimum 
                  
                     32 Mr. Richardson later became superintendent of the Belt Railroad of 
                                Indianapolis
                             under the presidency of Henry C. Lord. See Geo. S. Cottman, Indiana Magazine of History, 1907, p. 166. The 
                        Indianapolis, Cincinnati
                      and 
                                Lafayette
                             were changing a large number of their engines from wood-burners to
               
                     of twenty thousand pounds to the car, which is below the
                    minimum allowed today on all but a very few classes of freight, this would mean an average freight
                    rate of only twelve and a half cents to the hundred pounds, far below the present rates for any
                    considerable distance as allowed by the Interstate Commerce commission. The cars used on the 
                        Vincennes
                     road were mostly the "White Line" cars of the Bellefontaine road,
                    even then controlled by the 
                        New York
                     Central. That the pay of employes was far below what men of the same class are now
                    getting is shown by the testimony of Zephaniah Heustis, who testified that he had started as a
                    freight conductor about 1853 or 4 at fifty dollars a month, was advanced to passenger conductor at
                    eighty dollars a month in 1857, his salary raised to one hundred dollars a month during the Civil
                    war but cut to ninety-five dollars a month under the receivers.
            When the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                     leased the 
                        Terre Haute
                    , 
                        Alton
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                     in the sixties (this matter will be treated more fully in the sketch of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                    ), the 
                  Indianapolis, Cincinnati
                and 
                        Lafayette
                     was one of the guarantors of the provisions of the lease. When the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                     failed to pay the agreed minimum in 1878 and the case went to court, the
                            
                  Indianapolis, Cincinnati
                and 
                        Lafayette
                     on account of insolvency, could not pay its share.
            Finally the company was sold under foreclosure at public sale, February 22, 1880, by a committee of
                    the creditors, consisting of George Hoadly, Hervey Bates of 
                        Indianapolis
                     and George T. Bliss of 
                        New York
                    . It was reorganized as the 
                  Cincinnati,
                            Indianapolis, St.
                        Louis
                and 
                        Chicago
                    , which acquired under deed of March 6, 1880, the lines of the 
                  Indianapolis, Cincinnati
                and 
                        Lafayette
                     and the 
                        Cincinnati
                     of Indiana.33
                    
                  coal burners—a very expensive proposition, especially when the engine had a
                            narrow water-space as then it was necessary to build an entirely new fire box. At one time
                            during the litigation, the road had fifty-two locomotives, about half of which had been
                            changed to coal burners; the defense introduced this evidence, endeavoring to prove
                            collusion between Mr. Richardson and Mr. Lord for the special benefit of the
                            former's coal contract with the 
                        Indianapolis, Cincinnati
                     
                            & 
                                Lafayette
                            .
               
                     The capital stock was fixed at $4,000,000, and the
                    following were directors, according to the articles of incorporation: Thomas A. Morris, Charles W.
                    Short, George Wilshire, George Hoadly, S. J. Broadwell, M. E. Ingalls, John King, Jr., Thomas D.
                    Messler, Thomas R. Perkins, George T. Bliss, Thomas H. Sharpe, Charles G. Ludlow and Hervey Bates.
                    The road prospered under Melville E. Ingalls as president, who had been sent out to 
                        Cincinnati
                     to look after the road by the eastern capitalists in the seventies. "He came
                    as a young lawyer," said J. Q. Van Winkle, assistant to the vice-president of the Big Four,
                    "but he became a very capable railroad official."
            The subsidiary lines of the 
                  Cincinnati, Indianapolis
                and 
                        Lafayette
                     suffered the same fate as the main line. In November, 1879, the mortgages of 1869 and
                    1873 against the 
                        Cincinnati
                     and Indiana were foreclosed. The Whitewater Valley road had issued a first mortgage on
                    its property, August 1, 1865, to secure one thousand corporate bonds of one thousand dollars each,
                    paying 8% annual interest, but it defaulted even on the payment of interest on these
                    bonds. Suit was brought against it in the 
                        United States
                     Circuit court on January 23, 1875, and it was finally sold at 
                        Connersville
                     on May 2, 1878. It was bought by James J. Storrow, Washington, D. C., William H.
                    Rollins, Portsmouth, N. H., and Henry Parkman, Charles W. Short and John J. Emery, of 
                        Cincinnati
                    , bondholders, acting as "trustees of other holders of bonds."34 It was re-incorporated May 28, 1878, as the Whitewater Railroad company, with
                    nine directors and $1,300,000 worth of common stock. A rather new feature of railroad
                    finance at the time was the issuing of $325,000 preferred stock in addition, to cover
                    unpaid bond interest, satisfy old liens and various foreclosure and sale expenses, and "any
                    advances that may be necessary to put this corporation into operation." It operated its own
                    line until July 1, 1890, when it was taken over, under contract, by the Big Four, which finally
                    bought it outright, June 16, 1915.35 The 
                        Cincinnati
                     and Martinsville 
                  
                     33 Annual Reports, N. Y. C. Lines, 1917, p. 450.
                  
                     34 See Articles of Incorporation of the Whitewater Railroad Co.
                  
                     35 Annual Reports, N. Y. C. Lines, 1917, p. 456.
               
                     was sold under foreclosure, June 20, 1876, and re-organized as
                    the 
                  Fairland, Franklin
                and Martinsville, January 27, 1877. However, it was operated
                    by the 
                  Indianapolis, Cincinnati
                and 
                        Lafayette
                     and its successors and finally bought by the Big Four, June 16, 1915.36
            
            Three more lines were added to make up the 
                        Chicago
                     division of the Big Four as it exists today—the 
                  Cincinnati, Lafayette
                and 
                        Chicago
                    , the 
                        Columbus
                    , 
                        Hope
                     and 
                        Greensburg
                    , and the 
                        Cincinnati
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     Southern.
            The 
                  Cincinnati, Lafayette
                and 
                        Chicago
                     of Indiana was incorporated, May 31, 1870, with $1,000,000 capital stock of
                    $50 a share. Gustavus Ricker was the first president of the road and Hiram W. Chase,
                    secretary, and the following other directors: Leroy Templeton, Moses Fowler, Henry T. Sample, Owen
                    Ball, John Purdue, Frederick Geiger and Adams D. Earl. It built a line from Templeton, near 
                        Lafayette
                    , to the 
                        Illinois
                     line, and consolidated, March 28, 1872, with an 
                        Illinois
                     line built from the state line to St. Anne; the next year it absorbed the Kankakee and
                    Indiana from St. Anne to Kankakee, where it connects with the 
                        Illinois
                     Central to 
                        Chicago
                    .37 The Big Four never was built into 
                        Chicago
                     but uses the tracks of the 
                        Illinois
                     Central beyond Kankakee. In like manner it uses the L. E. & W. tracks between 
                        Lafayette
                     and Templeton.
            The cost of the 56.8 miles of railroad from Templeton to Kankakee is given in Poor, Manual of Railroads for 1883 as $3,898,356.23, including equipment. Adams Earl
                    bought the interest of Mr. Fowler shortly after the road was built, and thereby obtained a
                    controlling interest, and he also had a prominent part in the building of the L. E. & W.
                    through 
                        Lafayette
                    .38
                    
                        On this line of road the towns of Atkinson, Fowler, Earl Park and Raub sprang up. It
                            benefited the counties at large very greatly and those near the center of the county
                                immeasurably.39
                  
                    
                    
                  
                     36 Annual Reports, N. Y. C. Lines, 1917, p. 452.
                  
                     37
                            Ibid., 458.
                  
                     38
                            History of 
                                    Tippecanoe County
                                , Lewis Publishing Co., 258; De Hart, History 
                                    Tippecanoe County
                                , 373.
                  
                     39
                            History 
                           Warren, Benton, Jasper
                         and Newton
                                Counties, Battey & Co., p. 278.
               
                     The C. I. St. L. & C. assumed operation of the road,
                    September I, 1880, and it and its successor, the C. C. C. & St. L., have operated the road
                    ever since, now owning a controlling interest in it, which had been disposed of to eastern
                    capitalists in 1879.40
            
            The 
                        Columbus
                    , 
                        Hope
                     and 
                        Greensburg
                     was incorporated originally as the Hope and 
                        Greensburg
                     railroad in 1880. According to the original articles of incorporation there were nine
                    directors, all of them men along the route—William Foley, Warren B. Wilson, William A.
                    Moore, George W. Ewing, Buckner B. Jones, Simeon Stapp, William H. Aiken, Granville T. Rominger and
                    Arthur Gailbreth. The capital stock was fixed at $125,000. The company never built any
                    road until after the name was changed to the 
                        Columbus
                    , 
                        Hope
                     and 
                        Greensburg
                     by vote of the directors, January 17, 1881. It surveyed its line in 1882, including a
                    stretch of about ten miles out of 
                        Greensburg
                     already graded by the defunct 
                        Cincinnati
                     and 
                        Terre Haute
                     about ten years before, to which it secured a quitclaim deed in 1892.41 It was built in
                    1883–4, and opened to traffic May 5, 1884; and it has been operated all its life by
                    either the C. I. St. L. & C. or the Big Four, which now own a controlling interest in it.
                    According to Poor's Manual of Railroads for 1884, its building was
                    financed by capital stock to the amount of $275,000 six per cent first mortgage bonds in
                    the same sum; and the officers were John E. Robbins, president; Cortez Ewing, vice-president, and W.
                    I. Lucas, treasurer, all of 
                        Greensburg
                    . "My father helped survey the line," said Raymond Ridgley, in charge
                    of the stock of locomotive steel castings at 
                        Beech Grove
                    , 
                        and I can remember the date it was built, 1883, because I was born that year. The road was a
                            typical jerkwater road when I was a boy, and you could never depend on the trains. I never
                            expected then that it would be in existence when I got married; but now I am happily married
                            and the road is prospering.
                    
                
            The 
                        Cincinnati
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     Southern is a little less than seven miles long, extending from 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     Junction to 
                  
                     40 Annual Reports, N. Y. C. Lines, 1917, p. 458.
                  
                     41 Annual Reports, N. Y. C. Lines, 1917, p. 458.
               
                    
                    
                        Aurora
                    . The possibility of connection between 
                        Aurora
                    , a prominent old river town, with 
                        Indianapolis
                     first can be noticed in Locomotive, July 16, 1853, when the
                    announcement of the formation of a company to build a railroad between the two places was made.
                    However, Locomotive, "fed up" on wild railroad promotions at the
                    time, added, "We have no idea it will ever be built." Still, the building of the 
                        Cincinnati
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     Southern made it possible. The road was incorporated, April 30, 1887, with a capital
                    stock of $150,000, and J. H. Rhodes, J. R. Meguire, Horace Scott, George S. Blaney, and
                    E. R. Euhrman as directors. It was operated by the Big Four or its predecessors from the beginning,
                    and was bought by them in 1915.42 The original plan was to build the road from 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     to Rising Sun; but there is a creek between 
                        Aurora
                     and Rising Sun which is subject to destructive freshets, and which flows through a wide
                    valley which would involve the building of an expensive trestle. Accordingly, the line between these
                    two towns was given up, and a good stage service has since sufficed.43 The C. I.
                    St. L. & C. had a share in the building of, and operated the 
                        Vernon
                    , 
                        Greensburg
                     and Rushville; but as this is now part of the 
                        Michigan
                     division of the Big Four, its history will be included with that division under the
                            
                  Cincinnati, Wabash
                and 
                        Michigan
                    .
            Finally, the C. I. St. L. & C. merged in 1889 with the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                     and the 
                  Cleveland, Columbus, Cincinnati
                and 
                        Indianapolis
                     to form the 
                  Cleveland, Cincinnati, Chicago
                and 
                        St. Louis
                    , or Big Four. The C., I., St. L. & C., together with all the subsidiary lines
                    which have been discussed in this sketch, now form the 
                        Chicago
                     division of the road, one of the most important divisions of the entire system.
            THE INDIANAPOLIS AND ST. LOUIS
            
            Most students of history, and readers of such novels as Winston Churchill's The
                        Crisis are familiar with the antebellum glory of 
                        St. Louis
                    , a glory which the old river front and its vicinity suggests even to the visitor of
                    today. Nearly 
                  
                     42 Annual Reports, N. Y. C. Lines, 1918, p. 458.
                  
                     43 Statement of W. E. Williams of 
                                Indianapolis
                            , formerly of 
                                Aurora
                            .
               
                     all the pioneer railroad builders of Indiana, especially the
                    Bellefontaine builders, dreamed of the time when the railroads of Indiana would be a link connecting 
                        St. Louis
                     with the commercial centers of the east. This dream was largely realized in the
                    building of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                    , and through it the Bellefontaine people realized the early vision of lines of which
                    theirs would be an integral part, to connect 
                        St. Louis
                     with 
                        New York
                    , 
                        Pittsburg
                     and 
                        Cleveland
                    .
            The earliest thoroughfare to connect 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                     was the old National Road, which came through the state in the twenties. The story of
                    this famous highway is too well known to go into details here about it. However, by the late forties
                    the need of a railroad in addition, to connect the two cities, was becoming apparent. Two routes
                    from 
                        Terre Haute
                     to 
                        Indianapolis
                     were proposed, one by 
                  Plainfield,
                            Greencastle
                and 
                        Brazil
                    , and the other through 
                        Danville
                     and 
                        Greencastle
                    .44 The former, or southern route, was chosen, and the line
                    chartered and built as the 
                        Terre Haute
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                    , now part of the Pennsylvania lines.45
            
            Soon after this plans were made for a railroad to connect 
                        Terre Haute
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                    . Chauncey Rose, well known 
                        Terre Haute
                     philanthropist and railroad man, and John Brough, president of the 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     and later of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and Bellefontaine, were two chiefly interested in the 
                        Terre Haute
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and they tried to get a charter for a railroad between 
                        Terre Haute
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                     by way of Effingham and Vandalia. However, another company sought a charter for a road
                    between 
                        Terre Haute
                     and Alton, near 
                        St. Louis
                    , over a more northern route, through 
                        Charleston
                    , 
                        Mattoon
                     and 
                        Pana
                    . This company presented a more favorable charter, and it was granted by the 
                        Illinois
                     legislature, which also refused to grant the charter requested by Mr. Rose and Mr.
                        Brough.46 However, the 
                        Terre Haute
                     and Alton, as the new road was called, together with the 
                        Terre Haute
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                    , formed a good connection between 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                     for several years.
            
               
                  44 Esarey, History of Indiana, Vol. II, 721.
               
                  45 Esarey, History of Indiana, Vol. II, 721.
               
                  46 W. F. Cronin, History of 
                                Vigo County
                            , 73; R. R. Record quoted in Locomotive, March 12,
                    1853.
            
            
            
                    When that road (the T. H. & A.) was built, 
                            Terre Haute
                         was on the main line of transportation between 
                            St. Louis
                         and the east, affording an easy outlet for coal and other products which insured
                        the future growth of the city.47
               
                
            Though the 
                        Terre Haute
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     was one of the best pioneer roads of Indiana, the 
                        Terre Haute
                     and Alton, whose detailed history belongs to 
                        Illinois
                     rather than Indiana, was much the sort of road described in the well known Slow Train through 
                            Arkansas
                        , especially before it was taken over by a man named Griswold about 1855 or
                    1856. The following anecdote is told by H. C. Bradsby after an old-time conductor on the road, A. A.
                    Talmage, later a prominent official of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                    : 
                        The train, running along in 
                                Illinois
                            , made good time, but on curves the jolting grew monotonous. He watched the
                            engineer bobbing up and down on his seat. He saw the new man was getting nervous, and
                            finally as he bounced nearly to the top of the cab, he reached for the throttle to slow up.
                            Talmage caught his arm and prevented him, explaining that the head brakeman had his brake
                            set tight that with the throttle wide open the train was kept taut, and that if the engine
                            slowed up and set the cars to swaying, they would swing off the track.48
                  
                    
                
            A connection with 
                        St. Louis
                     was made possible when the 
                        Terre Haute
                     and Alton was consolidated with the Belleville and Illinoistown line, between
                    Belleville, East Alton and East 
                        St. Louis
                    .49 Even today the Big Four does not own its own tracks into the
                    city of 
                        St. Louis
                    , but goes in over the Eads bridge; and even on shipments of company material, it is
                    necessary to pay a bridge charge. The consolidated road, by agreement filed under the general laws
                    of 
                        Illinois
                    , November 13, 1856, became known as the 
                        Terre Haute
                    , 
                        Alton
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                    .49 Then reverses overtook the road, it was operated for a while by
                    trustees for its bondholders, and by a purchasing committee.50 March 24, 1862,
                    the road was sold under foreclosure, and June 2, 1862, was bought by a committee acting for the
                    purchasers, among whom some well known names 
                  
                     47 Cronin, History of 
                                    Vigo County
                                , 74.
                  
                     48
                            History of 
                                    Vigo County
                                , 568.
                  
                     49 N. Y. C. Lines, Annual Reports, 1917, p. 453.
                  
                     50 N. Y. C. Lines, Annual Reports, 1917, p. 453.
               
                     in American history and finance will be
                    recognized—Robert Bayard, Samuel J. Tilden, John G. Richardson, Joseph Tuckerrman and
                    Russell Sage. It was then reorganized as the 
                        St. Louis
                    , 
                        Alton
                     and 
                        Terre Haute
                    , with a capital stock of $3,–750,000.
            Meanwhile, if occasional newspaper comment of the time can be trusted, the 
                        Terre Haute
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     became the best paying road of the middle west, and it revived the idea of a line to 
                        St. Louis
                     by way of Effingham and Vandalia. The road was built as the 
                        St. Louis
                    , 
                        Vandalia
                     and 
                        Terre Haute
                    , in 1869–70, and was promptly leased by the 
                        Terre Haute
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The entire line, later, with the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Vincennes
                     and the 
                        Terre Haute
                     and 
                        Logansport
                    , became che Vandalia Line, and still later was absorbed by the Pennsylvania.
            About the same time, other interests saw the possibility of successful competition with the 
                        Terre Haute
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     in this project. Accordingly they incorporated the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                     Railroad company, with a line from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                        Terre Haute
                    , along the northern route considered in 1847, through 
                        Danville
                    , the north part of 
                        Greencastle
                    , and the northern strip of 
                        Clay county
                    . This company was incorporated, August 31, 1867, under the general laws of Indiana,
                    with a capital stock of $600,000. Its financing was different from what has been hitherto
                    discussed in these sketches. Instead of being financed by stock raised along the route, it was
                    financed chiefly by several railroad companies, as follows: the 
                  Indianapolis, Cincinnati
                and 
                        Lafayette
                    , the Bellefontaine, the 
                  Cleveland,
                            Columbus
                and 
                        Cincinnati
                    , the Lake Shore (already then under Vanderbilt control), the Pittsburg, Fort 
                        Wayne
                     and 
                        Chicago
                    , and the Pennsylvania Central.51 It was considered that the new
                    road would be a good feeder for these lines. J. P. Dunn mentions the fact that it 
                        was built rapidly and well, as the companies back of it had everything that could be asked in
                            the way of experience, means and talent at their command.52
                  
                    
                    
                  
                     51
                            Ibid., p. 451.
                  
                     52
                            Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 255.
               
                     Even before it built its own line, it leased the 
                        St. Louis
                    , 
                        Alton
                     and 
                        Terre Haute
                    , September 11, 1867.33 The lease guaranteed a certain per cent of
                    the profits to the St. L., A. & T. H., which in any case were not to be less than
                    $450,000 a year; and the performance of all the conditions of the lease by the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                     was guaranteed by the 
                  Indianapolis,
                            Cincinnati
                and 
                        Lafayette
                    , the Pittsburg, Fort 
                        Wayne
                     and 
                        Chicago
                    , and the 
                  Cleveland, Columbus
                and 
                        Cincinnati
                    , later the 
                  Cleveland, Columbus, Cincinnati
                and 
                        Indianapolis
                    .54 The litigation that ensued over the terms of this lease will be
                    discussed later in the sketch. The company's report, January 10, 1868, to the secretary of
                    state showed an expenditure of $4,688.31 for preliminary surveys; and this amount had
                    been increased to $15,075.82 by January 9, 1869. General T. A. Morris, prominently
                    mentioned in connection with other roads, was the president, and E. King, the secretary.
            The year 1869, when the road was actually started, was a notable one in railroading. The greatest
                    railroad event of the year was driving the last spike in the first great transcontinental railroad,
                    now the Union Pacific. However, many lesser events were transpiring. It was a time of great, almost
                    feverish, railroad expansion; and this, as has been noticed, became over-expansion. Railroads were
                    beginning to be merged into great systems, with all their evils and advantages, and men like
                    Commodore Vanderbilt and Jay Gould were making their huge fortunes in railroads. The newspapers of
                    1869 often speak of the effect on competing roads of the Vanderbilt control of the 
                        New York
                     Central and the Laifre Shore. With the expansion in lines of road was a development in
                    railroad material and equipment. Steel rail was beginning to take the place of iron rail, though
                    not, as a rule, any heavier to the yard. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel then, and for many years, ran a regular space devoted to railroad news,
                    and this often mentioned new railroad inventions. Some were practical and in use today, like the use
                    of exhaust steam from the engine for heating passenger cars, and the movable backs for 
                  
                     53 N. Y. C. Lines, Annual Reports, 1917, p. 451.
                  
                     54
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, July 28, 1882.
               
                     passenger seats, yet some were really wild ideas. Among those
                    was a device to make the red signal on a switchstand appear, due to electrical contact, when a
                    switch had been misplaced (this idea was perhaps the forerunner of the electric block signal of
                    today). Another was a warning gong to be kept ringing constantly while the train was in motion,
                    placed on the front of the engine, and struck by a hammer which was kept moving back and forth by
                    the motion of the eccentric on the locomotive. This reminds one somewhat of the
                    "bob-light" used a few years later on the Bellefontaine—a light set in
                    the sky-light of the caboose, which was kept alternately visible and invisible by means of a
                    shutter, which worked up and down on a cam operated by the motion of the axle. It was easy to tell
                    from the cab of the engine or from behind the train whether the rear of the train was still in
                    motion—an important matter before air brakes and air-hose couplings came into vogue. It
                    was understood, though never verified, that the "bob-light" was abandoned by the
                    Bellefontaine due to differences with the inventor.
            Freight rates from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                        Chicago
                     in 1869, quoted in the Sentinel, October 10, are as follows: 
                        First class, sixty cents; second class, fifty cents; third class, thirty-five cents; fourth
                            class, twenty-five cents; flour, fifty barrels or over, fifty cents; wool, in one hundred
                            pound bales, sixty cents.
                    These rates evidently are for one hundred pounds, and come nearer the present-day rates than
                    some others previously quoted, none of the latter being over ten or fifteen cents more than these
                    rates of 1869.
            Work commenced in earnest about the summer of 1869, on the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                    , and we read the following in the Sentinel, June 26,1869, taken from
                    the 
                  
                            Putnam
                        , Banner:
                    
                        Work on the 
                                Indianapolis
                             and 
                                St. Louis
                             railroad is being prosecuted in this county with all possible dispatch. Some of
                            the culverts have already been built and we are told are superior to any heretofore made in
                            this part of the county, being made of dressed stone. We also learn that the bridge over Big
                            Walnut will be of iron and that the road in every other particular will be first-class.
                    
                     The number of men employed in 
                        Putnam county
                     alone on the building of the road was estimated at from one thousand to fifteen
                        hundred.55
            
            Some apprehension was felt when the Pennsylvania Central railroad leased the Pittsburg, Fort 
                        Wayne
                     and 
                        Chicago
                    , which with the Bellefontaine was chiefly interested in the construction of the new
                    road. As the Pennsylvania Central owned a controlling interest in the 
                        Terre Haute
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     and the new road was being built to be that road's rival, it was feared that
                    the Bellefontaine would have to complete it alone or even give it up. However, the fear proved to be
                        groundless.56 The following is taken from the Sentinel,
                    August 16, 1869: 
                        Rails are now being laid west from 
                                Indianapolis
                             and it is expected to have the road laid to the 
                                Clay County
                             coal regions before freezing weather, and completed to 
                                Terre Haute
                             early next season. Pish rail is to be laid along the entire route.
                    
                
            The same paper for August 21 announced that the first station would be at Markle Mills, about six
                    miles from 
                        Terre Haute
                    . Quoting from the 
                        Terre Haute
                    
                    Express, August 30, it announced that the iron for thirty miles of the road had
                    been negotiated for in 
                        England
                    , and would be "delivered at 
                        New Orleans
                     and transported thence to its destination by boat and rail via 
                        St. Louis
                    ." They later bought one thousand tons of rail from the Lochiel Iron Works, 
                        Harrisburg
                    , 
                        Pennsylvania
                    .57
            
            Meanwhile, construction was proceeding out of 
                        Indianapolis
                     as well as 
                        Terre Haute
                    . The Sentinel, September 24, 1869, announced that 
                        the material for constructing the 
                                Indianapolis
                             and 
                                St. Louis
                             bridge over White river is now on the ground and the work
                            on construction will be commenced early next week.
                    The 
                        Terre Haute
                    
                    Journal, quoted in the Sentinel, October 9, says "dirt
                    is flying on both sides of 
                        Terre Haute
                    ." By the 
                  
                     55
                            Sentinel, July 1, 1869; 
                                Greencastle
                            
                            Press, quoted in Sentinel, August 6, 1869.
                  
                     56
                            
                                Greencastle
                            
                            Press, quoted in Sentinel, July 3, 1869.
                  
                     57
                            Sentinel, Nov. IS, 1869.
               
                     last of the month part of the line in 
                        Putnam county
                     was ready for the track, and track laying began at 
                        Terre Haute
                     on Friday, October 29.58
            
            Two bridges about that time occupied a great deal of attention, one over Lost creek, four miles
                    northeast of 
                        Terre Haute
                    , and one far larger, over White river at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The Sentinel, November 24, 1869, says: 
                        Common laborers are paid two dollars a day and one dollar extra for Sunday for work on the
                            railroad bridge.
                    This bridge was built by McNoiry, Claflin & Co., of 
                        Cleveland
                    .59 Work on the track continued with great dispatch; between four
                    thousand and five thousand men were estimated to be on the construction pay-roll of the company,
                    which amounted to $200,000 a month.60 On December 16, freight was
                    being carried on a stretch of track seven miles east from 
                        Terre Haute
                    , six miles at the same time being laid west of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and the track "ballasted as fast as the iron is laid down."
            A problem confronting the officials at the time was where to establish the road's shops.
                    With a view to making them serve the line all the way to 
                        St. Louis
                    , it was decided to establish them some place midway between 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                    . 
                        Terre Haute
                     had just secured the shops of the new 
                        St. Louis
                    , 
                        Vandalia
                     and 
                        Terre Haute
                    , built to be a subsidiary of the 
                        Terre Haute
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and made a strong effort to get the shops of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                    , also. That 
                        Illinois
                     towns were alive to the advantages of getting the shops is shown by the announcement in
                    the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel, December 15, 1869, of offers of money from the following cities, in each
                    case the offer being coupled with that of thirty acres of land: 
                        Charleston
                    , $100,000; Pana, $75,000; Mattoon, $60,000, and 
                        Shelbyville
                    , $60,000. Although its offer was smaller than that of 
                        Charleston
                    , Mattoon was chosen because it was practically at the half-way point between 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                    , and because of its superior water facilities61
                    
                  
                     58
                            Sentinel, Nov. 1, 1869.
                  
                     59 Ibid., Dec. 8, 1869.
                  
                     60
                            Ibid., Dec. 15, 1869.
               
                     In later years 
                        Terre Haute
                     was partially consoled by the establishment of shops and a store-house at Duane, in its
                    eastern outskirts. The auditing department about the same time was moved from 
                        St. Louis
                     to 
                        Indianapolis
                    .62 The financial statement of the company, filed with the secretary
                    of state for January 1, 1870, is as follows:
            
               
                  
                            Expenses.
                        
               
               
                  For lands
                  $89,365.87
               
               
                  For buildings
                  537.83
               
               
                  For cars
                  52,095.34
               
               
                  For construction
                  
                            907,371.81
                        
               
               
                   
                  $1,049,370.65
               
               
                  
                            Indebtedness.
                        
               
               
                  First mortgage bonds
                  $450,000.00
               
               
                  Bills payable
                  
                            93,854.53
                        
               
               
                   
                  $543,854.53
               
            
            The following, from the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel, January 21, 1870, does not bear directly on the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                    , but may be of interest as showing a condition which existed on some railroads at the
                    time: 
                        A system should be inaugurated by which the exhibition of the ticket upon entering the train
                            would secure the passenger from further molestation; until this is done "show your
                            ticket" will be the fire bell in the night which will disturb the peace of all
                            railway travelers, and any one will be liable to be put off in the woods if he mislays his
                            ticket after showing it a dozen times.
                    
                
            According to the 
                        Terre Haute
                    
                    Express, February 5, 1870, and the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel, February 8, the road had been laid about sixteen miles out of 
                        Terre Haute
                     and about the same distance west from 
                        Indianapolis
                    . A cut of hard pan just out of 
                        Terre Haute
                     retarded construction somewhat, but after that iron was laid at the rate of a mile a
                    day, which will compare with the fastest track-laying of today.
            
               
                  61
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, Dec. 15, 1869.
               
                  62
                        Ibid., Jan. 4, 1870.
            
            
            The stockholders held a meeting in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , February 16, 1870, re-elected all the officers, and elected the following directors:
                    Gen. T. A. Morris and Edward King, 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; Pliny Hoagland, Ft. 
                        Wayne
                    ; Thomas A. Scott, 
                        Philadelphia
                    ; T. D. Messier, Pittsburg, and Oscar Townsend, 
                        Cleveland
                    .03 In February, steps were taken for the removal of the 
                        Terre Haute
                     and Alton shops from Litchfield, 
                        Illinois
                    , to Mattoon.64
            
            One enterprising town along the route, which was; largely "made" by the railroad
                    and the adjacent coal fields which had been recently opened up was Carbon, in 
                        Clay county
                    . A north and south road was being proposed to intersect the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                     near that town; but the town proposed to build six miles of road to 
                        Brazil
                    , together with a depot at Carbon, and present it to the north and south road on
                    condition that it would establish its crossing with the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                     there.65 When the road was later built, as the Midland, or Central
                    Indiana, this was done.
            The 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                     traversed Parke county in one corner; and some interesting facts concerning its
                    connection with the town of Lena, in Parke county, have been furnished by Miss Beatrice McFarland,
                    formerly of Parke county, now of 
                        Chicago
                    : 
                        Sometime in the late sixties, the railroad gradually oozing westward, came through the
                            southeast corner of Parke county. A man by the name of J. B. Cochran, seeing the strategic
                            point, where a railroad crossed a wagon-road in a neighborhood rich in virgin timber,
                            foresaw a future city. He promptly built a store and was appointed agent for the railroad.
                            He nailed a neat board labelled ‘Cochran's Station’, over the
                            station door and dreamed he had founded a city. The tiny town was laid out in city blocks
                            and lots in 1870, and many buildings were erected. The principal industry was sawing and
                            shipping lumber and staves from the adjoining forests.
                        One fatal day the train stopped long enough for a railroad official to hand over a new
                            signboard, and instruct some of the interested bystanders to nail it over the station door.
                            On this was printed ‘Lena’, and thus the town was named and
                            ‘Cochran's Station’ was known no more.
                        
                     
                        63
                                
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                                Sentinel, Feb. 17, 1870.
                     
                        64
                                Ibid., Feb. 18, 1870.
                     
                        65
                                Ibid., April 5, 1870.
                  
                        
                        Legend has it that ‘Lena’ was a beautiful Indian maid whose ill fate
                            was connected with some of the gay soldier lads stationed at Old Fort Harrison on the
                                Wabash river. Naught now remains but a tiny obscure town whose very
                            inhabitants have probably never heard of the dusky forest maiden.
                    
                
            The first published statement of earnings of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                     even before it was fully built, appears in the Sentinel, April 5,
                    1870. Passenger receipts had been $47,–112 and mail receipts,
                    $3,216.65, making a total of $50,328.65. Following this, plans were announced
                    for the building of passenger depots. One was projected for 
                        Terre Haute
                     to be built in the summer of 1870, and the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                     and the 
                  Louisville, New Albany
                and 
                        Chicago
                     (now the 
                  Cincinnati, Indianapolis
                and 
                        Chicago
                     or Monon) planned a joint passenger depot at 
                        Greencastle
                    , both roads to use the L. N. A. & C. freight depot.06
                    However, the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                     was later changed to the north; the Monon follows a valley almost into 
                        Greencastle
                    , and goes under the Big Four tracks, which now cross this valley on a high embankment.
                    The Big Four depot today is at the extreme north end of the city and the Monon depot near the
                    business section.
            Excellent progress was reported, April 28, 1870, in the Sentinel. Nineteen miles of
                    track had been laid out of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , seventeen miles out of 
                        Terre Haute
                    , and track was being laid from 
                        Greencastle
                     east to a gravel pit near Fillmore. "When that is reached, track laying will
                    progress west of 
                        Greencastle
                    ." The passenger and mail receipts, reported in the Sentinel,
                    May 11, were $63,725, though this necessitated the payment of a tax of
                    $1593.12. That much through traffic was expected of the new road and the western
                    connection may be inferred from the fact that in May the 
                        St. Louis
                    , 
                        Alton
                     and 
                        Terre Haute
                     purchased eight new sleeping cars.67 The daily mixed and
                    accommodation train was announced between 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Danville
                    , leaving 
                        Indianapolis
                     at 9:30 each morning.68 The coming of the first train on the new
                    road aroused considerable interest and curiosity in 
                        Danville
                    , although 
                  
                     66
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, April 20 and 26, 1870.
                  
                     67
                            Ibid., May 16, 1870.
                  
                     68
                            Ibid., May 21, 1870.
               
                     unfortunately, the 
                        Danville
                     newspapers giving the details of the occasion have not been preserved. "The
                    historical value of newspapers was not realized in those days," as Julian D. Hogate, editor
                    of the 
                        Danville
                    
                    Republican Says.
            We read the following in the Sentinel, May 21, 1870, showing the fast laying of the
                    track: 
                        The track is laid ten miles east of 
                                Greencastle
                             and two miles west of 
                                Danville
                            , leaving only seven miles of gap from 
                                Greencastle
                             to 
                                Indianapolis
                            . Rail is also being laid west of 
                                Greencastle
                            .
                    By July 6, 1870, all the rail had been laid and several hundred men were putting on the
                    finishing touches.69 About that time 
                        Terre Haute
                     gave a public dinner to officials of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                     and the 
                        Terre Haute
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                    , celebrating the completion of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                     and the 
                        St. Louis
                    , 
                        Vandalia
                     and 
                        Terre Haute
                    , the new 
                        Terre Haute
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     subsidiary. B. W. Hanna, attorney for the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                    , lauded the officials of the other road, and drank a toast to its success. Then W. R.
                    McKeen—"Rile" McKeen of Riley's "Regardin'
                    Terry Hut", capitalist and for years president of the Vandalia—proposed the
                    following toast: 
                        The commerce of 
                                St. Louis
                            —may its future development surpass the expectations of her most
                            sanguine friends.69
                  
                    
                
            The road was opened to traffic July 4, 1870.70 Then, the same interests being in
                    control of all the roads, sleeping cars were run regularly from 
                        St. Louis
                     to 
                        New York
                     City by way of the 
                        St. Louis
                    , 
                        Alton
                     and 
                        Terre Haute
                     to 
                        Terre Haute
                    , the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                     to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the Bellefontaine to 
                        Cleveland
                    , the L. S. & M. S. to Buffalo, and the 
                        New York
                     Central the rest of the way to 
                        New York
                    .71 The following train schedule was almost immediately put into
                    effect: 
                  
                      
                     Leave 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                     
                     Arrive 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                     
                  
                  
                     Fast express
                     3:10 A.M.
                     4:20 A.M.
                  
                  
                     Day express
                     12:00 Noon
                     9:25 A.M.
                  
                  
                     
                        
                                    Terre Haute
                                 accommodation.
                     8:00 A. M.
                     2:00 P.M.
                  
                  
                     Night express
                     7:00 P.M.
                     7:10 P.M.
                  
               
                    
                  
                     69
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, July 6, 1870.
                  
                     70 N. T. C. Lines, Annual Reports, 1917, p. 451.
                  
                     71
                            Sentinel, July 15, 1870.
               
                     After July 18th the night express was changed to the 
                        Terre Haute
                     accommodation, leaving 
                        Indianapolis
                     at 3:15 P. M. and arriving at 7:10 P. M.72
            
            The last spikes were driven in the rail, formally completing the road, near 
                        Greencastle
                    , August 4, 1870. It was the custom of some roads, at the time, to use golden spikes,
                    but this expensive custom was dispensed with by the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                    . The 
                        Indianapolis
                     officials and invited guests left that morning at 8 o'clock on a special
                    train, and were met at the break in the line by the 
                        St. Louis
                     officials and their guests. A big crowd was present, as the event transcended in
                    importance in 
                        Greencastle
                     the coming of the first train. The four last spikes were driven, respectively, by A. A.
                    Talmadge, assistant superintendent of the road; J. L. Cozad, chief engineer; John Wallack, division
                    superintendent of the Western Union Telegraph Co. (The Western Union evidently served the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                    , as it does the Big Four today); and Edward King, secretary of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                    . Tribute was given during the ceremonies, to G. M. Beech, master of track laying on the
                    Bellefontaine road, who had charge of similar work on the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                    . It was not even necessary to cut a single bar of iron to make the last rails join
                        together.73
            
            Competition was very keen between the new road, sometimes called the "parallel
                    road", and the 
                        Terre Haute
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; and even complaints were made in the newspapers in the summer of 1870 about the
                    inconvenience caused travelers by the over-zealous and over-attentive station employees of each
                    road.
            The road was aided, like all the new roads of the period in Indiana, by grants of land and township
                    aid. Prof. Harlow Lindley tells of a man named Hadley, living near 
                        Danville
                    , who gave a substantial grant of land to the railroad, and after whom the station of
                    Hadley, west of 
                        Danville
                    , was named. Mr. Hadley was a devout member of the Society of Friends, a "good
                    man and just", but one who had very definite ideas of what constituted right and justice
                    toward himself as a beneactor 
                  
                     72
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, July 11, 1870.
                  
                     73
                            Ibid., Aug. 4 and 6, 1870.
               
                     of the road. Accordingly, one day when he wished to go to 
                        Danville
                     from his farm west of the town, he flagged one of the fast limited trains. The engineer
                    stopped the train, expecting to hear immediately of a spread rail, washout, or something of the sort
                    ahead. All that happened was that Mr. Hadley climbed tranquilly aboard the train. The conductor said
                    to him with some asperity, "This train is not supposed to stop except at regular scheduled
                    stops." "Well, it stopped, didn't it?" returned the old 
                        Quaker
                    ; that settled the matter, and he rode undisturbed the rest of the way to 
                        Danville
                    .
            Methods of operation on railroads during the early seventies did not change a great deal from those
                    of twenty years before, and those described on the earlier roads apply largely to the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                    . There was some improvement, however, in equipment. Engines were larger; the sand dome,
                    from which sand can be applied to the track if it is slippery, was coming into use; and the engine
                    truck, running on four smaller wheels and supporting the front of the engine, was being used on
                    engines as well as the four main driver wheels. Fred Dancey, an 
                        Illinois
                     Central man of long experience, but who has memories of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                    , remembers the early wood burners on the road. 
                        They had ricks along the road for the wood, and it was sawed in treadmills, operated by
                            horses who kept the shaft moving by walking along it, yet never advancing in position.
                     Seats were then of hard material, such as cane, but far from being the soft upholstered
                    coach seats of today. Cars were heated by stoves then, and it was necessary to secure them with
                    strong bolts to the floor of the coach on account of the jarring of the train. Mr. Dancey remembers
                    when passenger cars were supported by large springs placed on top of the trucks, and also when large
                    pieces of rubber took the place of springs in supporting the bolsters on which the car body rests.
            The cost of the road and equipment, as given in Poor's Manual of Railroads
                    for 1871–2, was $3,410,003.95; and other assets, such as real estate and
                    buildings, stocks and bonds, fuel, cash and the like, brought the total to $4,076,532.16.
                         The capital stock continued at only $600,000,
                    the bulk of the cost being met by bonds secured by two mortgages, both bearing seven per cent
                    interest—a $2,000,000 first mortgage issued July 1, 1869, and a second
                    mortgage of $670,000 issued October 1, 1870. Bills payable were $265,215.69
                    and other liabilities $366,530.59, leaving the company an equity of
                    $174,–785.88. The rail was 60 pound rail, and the gauge of the track
                    4′8½. The following operating statement shows a satisfactory condition for the
                    year 1870:
            
               
                  Gross earnings:
                   
               
               
                     Passenger
                  $616,429.04
               
               
                     Freight
                  1,083,118.02
               
               
                     Mail, express, etc.
                  77,590.80
               
               
                     Other
                  
                            16,805.90
                        
               
               
                   
                  $1,793,943.76
               
               
                     Operating exp., taxes
                  
                            1,145,997.21
                        
               
               
                   
                  $647,946.55
               
               
                     Interest on funded debt
                  $65,481.62
               
               
                     Other payments from income, including lease of 
                                St. Louis
                             and 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                  
                  
                            495,472.66
                        
               
               
                     Balance to credit of income
                  $87,793.61
               
            
            The road at the time had fifty-six locomotives, thirty-five passenger cars, fifteen baggage, mail and
                    express cars, five hundred and seventeen box cars, one hundred seventy-three stock cars, two hundred
                    sixty-one platform cars, and sixty-seven coal cars.
            The volume of the east and west traffic between 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                     made good business for several years for both the railroads between the two cities; and
                    the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                    , by putting its route a little farther to the north, gained thereby a large local
                    business. 
                        Clay county
                     was found rich in coal; 
                        at the time of the location of the road, there were no towns in the county touched by the
                            survey, but half dozen almost immediately sprang into existence.74
                  
                    
                
            
               
                  74 Blanchard, History of 
                                Clay
                             and Owen Counties, 52.
            
            
            However, the competition of the 
                        Terre Haute
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     in a few years began to tell on the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                    , although there were other factors contributing to its decline. Interest payments were
                    very heavy, on account of the heavy bonded indebtedness of the company as compared with its capital
                    stock, although such financing was a common fault of contemporary roads. Another thing that caused
                    some trouble was the guarantee of a minimum rental of $450,000 a year to the 
                        St. Louis
                    , 
                        Alton
                     and 
                        Terre Haute
                    , as that road did not do so well toward 1880. In that year the 
                        Wabash
                     and the 
                        Chicago
                     and Alton started a disastrous "rate war" on passenger traffic, which
                    gradually involved practically all the lines running east out of both 
                        Chicago
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                    .75 No doubt this helped also to deplete the earnings of the 
                        St. Louis
                    , 
                        Alton
                     and 
                        Terre Haute
                    ; anyhow about that time its earnings did not reach the $450,000 guarantee.
                    The 
                        Terre Haute
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     had a safer arrangement with the 
                        St. Louis
                    , 
                        Vandalia
                     and 
                        Terre Haute
                    , which included payment of thirty per cent of the gross earnings, without any mention
                    being made of a minimum.
            The 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                     ceased payments of the minimum rental to the leased line after April, 1878.76 In this connection a study of its financial statement for December 31, 1877,
                    which appears in Poor's Manual of Railroads for 1878, may be interesting.
                    The earnings of the road, including the 
                        St. Louis
                    , 
                        Alton
                     and 
                        Terre Haute
                    , were as follows:
            
               
                  Passengers
                  $294,190.66
               
               
                  Freight
                  982,435.51
               
               
                  Mail and express
                  64,161.89
               
               
                  Miscellaneous
                  
                            45,086.89
                        
               
               
                   
                  $1,385,874.95
               
            
            The operating expenses were quite heavy, including expenditures for maintenance of way, rolling
                    stock, transportation and miscellaneous, amounting to $1,064,669.90, leaving
                    $321,205.05 as net earnings. Out of this was supposed to be 
                  
                     75 See files of the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel for Nov. and Dec., 1880.
                  
                     76
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, July 28, 1882.
               
                     paid a rental to the 
                        St. Louis
                    , 
                        Alton
                     and 
                        Terre Haute
                     of $451,–753.27 and interest on the company's funded
                    debt, amounting to $247,410, which left a deficit of $221,881, even when
                    $155,–732.67, given under the vague caption of "road
                    earnings", and $944.55 from the Carbon and Otter Creek Valley road are added to
                    the net earnings.77
            
            For the same period the gross earnings of the 
                        Terre Haute
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                    , not including leased roads, were $1,026,–028.73, and operating
                    expenses were only $707,256.92. This left $318,771.81 in net earnings, nearly
                    as much as those of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                     and its leased line combined, even though its gross earnings were somewhat smaller.78 Its payments out of net income were much smaller and it realized a profit
                    from the 
                        St. Louis
                    , 
                        Vandalia
                     and 
                        Terre Haute
                    , leaving it a surplus of $56,032.52 on the year's business. One
                    item of expenditure is "
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                     pool", $68,–058.76. Agreements as to division of profits
                    on joint freight and passenger business, existed then between many connecting lines of railroad, and
                    were known as pools—evidently one existed between the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                     and the 
                        Terre Haute
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            Though business in 1880 and 1881 on the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                     was good, heavy operating expenses, interest charges and a loss in the business on the
                    Alton line caused conditions to become still worse.79 Earnings increased to
                    $2,052,185.02 for 1881, of which more than two-thirds was from freight business, but
                    operating expenses had also increased to $1,–864,515.18, leaving net earnings
                    of only $187,669.84. The netearnings of the 
                        Terre Haute
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     for the same period were $433,310.65, though their gross earnings were only
                    a little more than half as large as those of its rival; and though its payments from income had
                    increased, it still had a surplus left of $61,807.35. However, the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                     had the following to pay out of net earnings:
            
               
                  77 This was a short coal road the 
                            Indianapolis
                         and 
                            St. Louis
                         acquired in 1873, but later abandoned; N. Y. C. Lines, Annual Reports, 1917, p.
                        451.
               
                  78 Poor's Manual of Railroads, 1878.
               
                  79 Poor's Manual of Railroads, 1883.
            
            
            
               
                  Rental 
                                St. Louis
                            , 
                                Alton
                             and 
                                Terre Haute
                             (minimum)
                  $450,000
               
               
                  Interest on funded debt
                  250,000
               
               
                  Floating debt
                  20,698
               
               
                  Other payments from income
                  
                            103,532.84
                        
               
               
                     Total
                  $824,500.84
               
            
            This meant a loss of $636,831 on the year's business, and a crisis came in the
                    company's affairs within a year. The 
                        St. Louis
                    , 
                        Alton
                     and 
                        Terre Haute
                     brought suit against the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                     in the court of Judge Drummond of 
                        Chicago
                     for $664,874.70 unpaid rental which had accrued since April, 1878. Since the
                    defendant clearly was unable to pay it, recourse was had on the three companies who had guaranteed
                    the lease of the plaintiff road, and the court held them severally responsible for one-third the
                    amount of the back rental. The C. C. C. & I. and the Pennsylvania, which had leased the
                    Pittsburg, Fort 
                        Wayne
                     and 
                        Chicago
                     and bound themselves for all its contracts, each paid $221,624.90, but the
                            
                  Indianapolis, Cincinnati
                and 
                        Lafayette
                     was, as we have seen in a previous sketch, insolvent, and the court ruled that the 
                        St. Louis
                    , 
                        Alton
                     and 
                        Terre Haute
                     would have to lose the amount due from it.
            
                    Both sides appealed from the decision of the court, the plaintiff because it did not get the
                        entire $664,874.20, and the defendant because they were held liable for any of the
                            amount.80
               
                
            The affairs of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                     also caused suspension of interest payments on its second mortgage bonds, and this
                    caused the holders of these bonds to take the matter to the Federal court at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The road went into the hands of a receiver, May 23, 1882, and was sold at auction by
                    W. P. Fishback, master in chancery, at the Federal building, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , July 28, 1882.81 Several wags started the bidding with bids such
                    as fifty and fifty-two cents, but soon it settled into a rivalry between a Col. Moore and E. B.
                    Thomas, general manager of the Bee Line, who represented the Vanderbilt 
                  
                     80
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, July 28, 1882.
                  
                     81 N. Y. C. Lines, Annual Reports, 1917, p. 451.
               
                     interests. Mr. Thomas finally won out, and bought the road for
                    $1,396,000, which evidently represents the equity above the funded debt, which by that
                    time had reached $3,–500,000, including first mortgage bonds,
                    $2,000,000 of July 1, 1869; second mortgage bonds, $1,000,000 of October 1,
                    1870; and equipment bonds, $500,000 of July 1, 1871. With the road went also forty-eight
                    locomotives, thirty-six coaches, eight express and baggage cars, four mail and baggage cars, two
                    hundred and twenty-five box cars, one hundred and three compromise box cars, thirty-four line cars,
                    eighty-eight stock cars, three hundred and four platform and general cars, twenty-one coal cars, and
                    one pay car. The second mortgage bondholders were not satisfied with the result, and, represented by
                    Mr. Lamme, announced that they intended to fight the matter, but did not.82
            
            The new management re-organized the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                     and re-incorporated it, September 15, 1882, under the general laws of Indiana. The
                    capital stock was fixed at $500,000, and there were seven directors, John H. Devereaux,
                    Stevenson Burke, Amos Townsend, James Barnett, E. B. Thomas, George H. Russell and John T. Dye. The
                    condition of the road's finances gradually improved under the new management, until it
                    became a paying and even prosperous line. It finally consolidated with the C. C. C. & I. and
                    C. I St. L. & C. in June, 1889, to form the 
                  Cleveland, Cincinnati, Chicago
                and 
                        St. Louis
                    , or Big Four.
            Meanwhile the 
                        St. Louis
                    , 
                        Alton
                     and 
                        Terre Haute
                     lease was taken over by the re-organized 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                    , and it and its successors operated it until November 1, 1890, when it was deeded to
                    the 
                        Cairo
                    , 
                        Vincennes
                     and 
                        Chicago
                     Railway company, then operated by the C. C. C. & St. L., and, as a part of that
                    road, came under the ownership of the Big Four in 1913, although the part from East 
                        St. Louis
                     to 
                        Belleville
                    , 
                        Illinois
                    , had been previously sold to the 
                        Illinois
                     Central.83
            
            When one considers the flourishing condition of both the Big Four and Pennsylvania divisions between 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                    , it would seem that Mr. McKeen's toast about the future commerce of 
                        St. Louis
                     was to become a reality.
            
               
                  82
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, July 29, 1882.
               
                  83 N. Y. C. Lines, Annual Reports, 1917, p. 453–5.
            
            
            PEORIA AND EASTERN EAST (INDIANA, BLOOMINGTON AND WESTERN)
            The Peoria and Eastern, as it exists today, is divided into two sections—the Peoria and
                    Eastern East from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                  Springfield, Ohio
               , and the Peoria and Eastern West from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                        Peoria
                    , 
                        Illinois
                    . The Peoria and Eastern East is now a part of the Big Four, and its history will be
                    featured in this sketch for this reason; but the story of the Peoria and Eastern West, which went
                    back under its own management in July, 1923, after having been a part of the Big Four for many
                    years, but is now operated by the Big Four, is so interwoven with the eastern section that a short
                    sketch of its history before the building of the latter will be given.
            The first road traversing Indiana, now a part of the Peoria and Eastern, is the old New castle and 
                        Danville
                    , incorporated June 10, 1854, for the purpose of constructing a road from 
                        Newcastle
                    , Indiana, to 
                  Danville, Illinois
               .84 A right-of-way
                    and grade were partially built between 
                        Crawfordsville
                     and 
                        Covington
                    , Indiana, but the line was never actually put into operation.85 It
                    was put in the hands of Orville L. Hamilton, receiver, on September 8, 1862, and the 
                        court decree, appointing receiver, included statement that court considered corporation
                            dissolved, and enjoined and restrained officers from exercising any corporate powers.86
                  
                    Its property was conveyed to the 
                  Indianapolis, Crawfordsville
                and 
                        Danville
                     on June 23, 1889, by John M. Butler, second receiver. 
                        From final report of second receiver, it is evident that conveyance to 
                        Indianapolis, Crawfordsville
                      and 
                                Danville
                            . Railroad company, covered all of company's railroad property.87
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  84 Digest of available historical information on the Peoria and Eastern,
                        prepared by L. S. Rose, general manager, for the writer. Later references to this digest will
                        show only "L. S. Rose." See also N. Y. C. Lines, Annual Reports, 1917, p. 460.
               
                  85 L. S. Rose.
               
                        86
                        Ibid.
                    
               
                        87
                        Ibid.
                    
            
            
            Next came the 
                  Indianapolis, Crawfordsville
                and 
                        Danville
                     railroad. Mention has been made in a previous sketch that the road, which was
                    incorporated May 15, 1866, under the general laws of Indiana, was projected by Henry C. Lord,
                    president of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                     at the time, in order to create a rival for the 
                        Lafayette
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; and J. P. Dunn is authority for the statement that as soon as the 
                        Lafayette
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     sold their line to the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                    , Mr. Lord dropped the project. 
                        But the people along the line wanted the road, and the 
                        Indianapolis, Crawfordsville
                      and 
                                Danville
                             was re-organized and went on with the work.88
                  
                     The line was opened to traffic in the latter part of 1869, and almost immediately
                    consolidated with the 
                  Danville, Urbana, Bloomington
                and 
                        Pekin
                     railroad, making a continuous line of road from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                  Pekin, Illinois
               , which is a suburb of Peoria and connected with it
                    by a Union railroad.89 It was custom, as we have seen in previous sketches, at
                    the time, for a railroad to be incorporated and built to or near the state line and later
                    consolidated with another railroad built in an adjoining state to the state line. In this way the
                    consolidated line enjoyed the status of a home corporation in both states, and was not considered a
                    foreign corporation in either, as explained by C. R. Myers, general agent of the Big Four. The
                            
                  Indianapolis, Crawfordsville
                and 
                        Danville
                     acquired by deed in 1869, the right of way and the grade of the old 
                        Newcastle
                     and 
                        Danville
                    .90 It was consolidated, by agreement filed in 
                        Illinois
                    , September 9, 1869, and in Indiana, September 11, 1869, with the 
                  Danville, Urbana, Bloomington
                and 
                        Pekin
                    , to form the 
                  Indianapolis, Bloomington
                and Western.91
            
            The 
                  Indianapolis, Bloomington
                and Western had tough sledding in its earlier years, went
                    into the hands of a receiver, November 21, 1874, and continued in a receiver's 
                  
                     88 Dunn, Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 254.
                  
                     89 N. Y. C. Lines, Annual Reports, 1917, p. 460. Formerly, according
                            to veteran Peoria and Eastern engineers, this connection was over two roads.
                  
                     90 L. S. Rose.
                  
                            91
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                     hands until five years later.92 A copy of
                    the receiver's report for the year ending November 30, 1878, was located recently in the 
                        New York
                     public library, and a copy in photostat was promptly secured by the Indiana State
                    library.
            There was a heavy bonded indebtedness on the road, about which something will be said later, and the
                    bills were considerably higher than the available revenues. The dire straits of the company is shown
                    by the following operating statement covering the period of the receivership, 1874–8:
            
               
                  Earnings from all sources
                  $5,518,910.57
               
               
                  Unpaid receiver's certificates
                  369,175.64
               
               
                  Unpaid vouchers and pay-rolls
                  
                            137,883.31
                        
               
               
                   
                  $6,025,969.52
               
               
                  Operating expense, rentals, etc
                  $5,575,264.66
               
               
                  III. taxes paid $126,480.97
                  
               
               
                  Interest on tax certificate 350.00—
                  126,830.97
               
               
                  Receiver's certificates paid
                  180,175.64
               
               
                  Materials on hand
                  39,306.75
               
               
                  Cash in hands of cashier
                  57,862.88
               
               
                  Cash in hands of local agents
                  24,211.64
               
               
                  Due from individuals and companies
                  
                            22,316.98
                        
               
               
                   
                  $6,025,969.52
               
            
            Discouraging as the outlook seemed, with the great mass of unpaid certificates, vouchers and
                    pay-rolls, General George B. Wright, the receiver, took a little satisfaction in the fact that the
                    excess of liabilities over assets had been reduced from $1,250,233.34 in 1877 to
                    $1,107,858.89 in 1878. The expenditures for the four-year period were listed in detail,
                    and the following may be of interest as showing how much less things cost then from now:
            
               
                  Iron, rerolled, 6780 tons
                  $138,482.58
               
               
                  Iron, new, 3824 tons
                  201,196.39
               
               
                  Steel rails, 1958 tons
                  102,891.51
               
               
                  Ties, 490,838
                  167,000.59
               
               
                  New store-house and boiler shop at 
                                Urbana
                            
                  
                  964.24
               
               
                  New drill press
                  900.00
               
            
            
               
                        92
                        Ibid.
                    
            
            
            General Wright, who had given the road's affairs considerable thought, made the following
                    comments on the financial conditions in the report for 1878: 
                        The gross earnings for the year have been increased about $60,–000 over
                            the previous year, but the cost of maintaining the property has been increased considerably,
                            by reason of additional repairs rendered necessary from natural wear and decay.
                        The improvement in gross earnings may be attributed in a great measure, to the organization
                            and maintenance of pools at most of the crossings and intersections with other roads. This
                            has, in nearly every case, resulted in the strict observance of tariff rates, and an
                            increased confidence between the managers of the different lines. While the through rates
                            have been extremely low not averaging over 70/100 of a cent per ton per mile, being only
                            about one-third the rate which prevailed four years ago, the local rates have been quite
                            uniform and generally sustained.
                        One great obstacle to the economical management and operation of this line of road is its
                            steep grades. The utmost capacity of an ordinary freight engine over the entire
                            "main line" between 
                                Pekin
                             and 
                                Indianapolis
                            , is fifteen to eighteen loaded cars, or about one hundred eighty to two hundred
                            tons of freight. The grades between 
                                Urbana
                             and 
                                Indianapolis
                             could be reduced at a cost of about $100,000 so that a single engine
                            could haul double this amount of freight between those two points. The two steepest grades
                            on the main line west of 
                                Urbana
                             are found at 
                                Pekin
                             and in the neighborhood of 
                                Bloomington
                            , at which places a helping engine could be advantageously employed, at less
                            expense per annum than the interest on the cost of changing the line and grades.
                    
                
            However, General Wright's suggestion could not be carried out. The final outcome of the
                    receivership is quoted from the 
                        New York
                     Central Lines Annual Reports for 1917, p. 460: 
                        The receiver operated the road until April 9, 1879, when, following foreclosure sale, it was
                            conveyed by delivery of deed dated March 22, 1879, by the masters in chancery to a
                            purchasing committee consisting of Austin Corbin, Giles E. Taintor and Josiah B. Blossom.
                            April 9, 1879, that part of the road extending from 
                                Indianapolis
                             to the Indiana-
                                Illinois
                             state line was conveyed by said purchasing committee to the 
                                Indianapolis
                             and 
                                Danville
                             company. April 10, 1879, the remainder of the road extending from the 
                                Illinois
                            -Indiana state line to 
                        Pekin,
                                    Illinois
                     , was conveyed to the 
                                Danville
                             and 
                                Pekin
                             Railroad company, and April 11, 1879, the purchasing committee executed a
                            supplemental quit-claim deed, covering the entire road, direct to the Indiana, 
                                Bloomington
                             and Western.
                    
                
            
            It will be seen that, for the purposes of reorganization, the line was once more divided into an
                    Indiana and an 
                        Illinois
                     section. However, these two were re-united before the end of April, 1879, as the
                    Indiana, 
                        Bloomington
                     and Western.
            Meanwhile, talk was beginning by 1880 of a line of railroad direct from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                  Columbus, Ohio
               . This could be accomplished by building a road as far as 
                        Springfield
                    , and there joining a road already built to 
                        Columbus
                    . This road was being operated by the 
                        Cincinnati
                    , 
                        Sandusky
                     and 
                        Cleveland
                     railroad, and the latter was in the hands of a receiver from 1877 to January, 1880.93 It is very likely that the Indiana, 
                        Bloomington
                     and Western officials had in mind even then the plan they later followed, building the
                    line to 
                        Springfield
                     and then leasing the 
                        Cincinnati
                    , 
                        Sandusky
                     and 
                        Cleveland
                    , thus having control of a line all the way to 
                  Cleveland, Columbus, Cincinnati
               , and other cities.
            In some of the files of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel for the latter part of 1880 appear rumors of a proposed merger of the 
                        Cincinnati
                    , 
                        Sandusky
                     and 
                        Cleveland
                    , the Junction road to 
                        Cincinnati
                    , now the C. I. & W., and the Indiana, Blooming-ton and Western. However,
                    officers of the Junction road denied the rumors. About the same time two corporations were organized
                    to build a railroad from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                        Springfield
                    . The 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana State Line was incorporated November 13, 1880, under the general laws of 
                        Ohio
                    , to build a railroad from 
                        Columbus
                     to the Indiana line west of Hollansburg, in Darke county, 
                        Ohio
                    .94 This line was partially constructed during the corporate
                    existence of the company.95 The 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana State Line, according to papers filed with the secretary of state for
                    Indiana, was capitalized for $2,000,000 with seven directors, six of whom lived in 
                        Ohio
                     and one in 
                        New York
                     City. The 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     State Line Railway company was incorporated on the same day under the general laws of
                    Indiana, with a capital stock of $1,800,000, subscribed mostly by Indiana men, prominent
                    among whom was Charles W. Fairbanks, later vice-president 
                  
                     93 N. Y. C. Lines, Annual Reports, 1917, p. 457.
                  
                     94 L. S. Rose.
                  
                            95
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                     of the 
                        United States
                    . Unfortunately for the historian, this took place at almost the close of a very hot
                    presidential campaign, and the newspapers were too full of politics to contain a great deal of
                    information about railroads. The 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     State Line was authorized to construct a railroad from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to the 
                        Ohio
                     line west of Hollansburg, 
                        Ohio
                    , which line was partially constructed.96 The two lines consolidated
                    under articles filed in Indiana, March 19, 1881, and 
                        Ohio
                    , March 22, 1881, forming the 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana and Pacific Railway company, and thus became a home corporation, with all the
                    rights and privileges of such, in both states.97 The consolidation was to
                    continue "for fifty years and be renewable for like periods forever." The capital
                    stock was fixed at $5,000,000, and the first seven directors were J. D. Campbell, 
                        Davenport
                    , 
                        Iowa
                    ; C. W. Fairbanks, C. E. Henderson, H. O. Diehl, W. H. Pronty, J. H. Wilson and Andrew
                    Ford Woods, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . That the project was probably undertaken for the benefit of the Indiana, 
                        Bloomington
                     and Western is shown by the clause in the articles of consolidation giving the
                    directors power to consolidate with the Indiana, 
                        Bloomington
                     and Western "on or after the completion of its road." The articles
                    were signed by W. C. Diehl, secretary of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     State Line, and C. E. Henderson, secretary of the 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana State Line.
            The name of the corporation is of some interest in showing the dreams of its builders, possibly, to
                    make it a part of a line extending to the Pacific. This idea occurred to many railroad builders, and
                    many included "Pacific" in the name of their road. Most of these never reached
                    anywhere near the Pacific, although some roads of this class have become large and well-known, such
                    as the 
                        Missouri
                     Pacific, the 
                        Texas
                     and Pacific, and the Vicksburg, Shreveport and Pacific.
            The 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana and Pacific finally consolidated with the Indiana, 
                        Bloomington
                     and Western, March 24, 1881, but the combined road took the name of the latter road.
                    The capital stock was fixed at $10,000,000, which absorbed $5,000,000 
                  
                            96
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                            97
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                     stock of the original Indiana, 
                        Bloomington
                     and Western and $3,000,000 of the 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana and Pacific. The other $2,000,000 was to be used for taking up
                    stock scrip issued to some stockholders, "or acquiring other lines of railroad."
                    In spite of this vision of expansion, an extremely heavy bonded debt hung over the road. They
                    assumed $4,500,000 of first mortgage bonds and $1,500,000 of second mortgage
                    bonds of the Indiana, 
                        Bloomington
                     and Western from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                        Pekin
                    , and in addition issued $3,000,000 worth of six per cent bonds secured
                    "by a mortgage or deed of trust on the eastern part", and $6,000,000 of
                    income bonds bearing six per cent interest, to be payable out of the earnings of the road
                    "after paying all expenses of maintaining and operating the said line and of conducting the
                    business incident thereto," and paying the interest on the regular mortgage bonds.
            Attention has been called in previous sketches to the heavy bonded indebtedness of railroads at the
                    time, and the financial difficulties which resulted. It will be noticed that it was unusually heavy
                    with the Indiana, 
                        Bloomington
                     and Western, and this may seem strange when we consider the board of directors,
                    Benjamin S. Henning, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Ferdinand W. Peck of 
                        Chicago
                    , J. Baxter Upham of 
                        Boston
                    , John H. Farwell and Robert K. Daw of Claremont, N. H.; Giles S. Taintor, Gilbert
                    Oakley, Henry W. Maxwell, Frederick W. Dunton, Daniel S. Corbin, William G. Wheeler, and James K. O.
                    Sherwood, of 
                        New York
                    . Most of these 
                        New York
                     men were connected with the Long Island Railroad, according to William Webb and Sandy
                    Thompson, retired engineers on the Peoria and Eastern, both born in 
                        Scotland
                    , saw railroad experience in 
                        Canada
                     in the sixties, and went with the Indiana, 
                        Bloomington
                     and Western in the construction period.
            
                    Austin Corbin was president of the Long Island railroad, and when he took the presidency of the
                        Indiana, 
                            Bloomington
                         and Western he thought we were just a bunch of cowboys running it. He sent a bunch
                        of officials out west from the Long Island to make over the road, as he thought, but he found
                        out his mistake. For instance, the master mechanic from the east was not used to the conditions
                        we had to face, made a complete failure and had to go back to the Long Island. He was used to a
                        level track, and never had encountered the problems of  the
                        steep hills between 
                            Indianapolis
                         and 
                            Pekin
                        . He laughed at us when we told him we cleaned out the boilers of our engines about
                        every other trip. "We let our engines run for a month on the Long Island without
                        cleaning," he said. However, this would not work on the Indiana, 
                            Bloomington
                         and Western on account of the hills we had to go up, and also on account of the
                        heavy lime solution in the water we had to use out here, which corroded the boilers. The new
                        master mechanic, after several engines had been burned out, finally admitted his mistake. We
                        used copper fire boxes in those days; steel had not been developed as it is now, to stand fire
                        and steam pressure; and though less expensive than copper, it did not give good service. Most of
                        the men from 
                            New York
                         had no better success than these men, though they were well liked personally. It
                        was a difference in conditions under which railroading was carried on there and here.
                
            Meanwhile, the Indiana, 
                        Bloomington
                     and Western had leased the 
                        Cincinnati
                    , 
                        Sandusky
                     and 
                        Cleveland
                    , on which lease they realized a profit of $100,000 during 1881.98 They pushed forward the finishing touches with energy during 1882 on the line
                    from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                        Springfield
                    , in order that they might have a direct connection from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                        Cleveland
                    , 
                        Sandusky
                    , 
                        Columbus
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                    . Delays due to an injunction process and to high water at 
                        Newcastle
                     proved to be only temporary.99 In March they had purchased land for
                    a station in 
                        Hancock county
                     "at the crossing of the Warrington and 
                        Knightstown
                     turnpike, about eight and one-fourth miles northwest of 
                        Knightstown
                    ."100 This location would indicate that the present station
                    of Wilkinson is likely the one in question.
            The time set for the completion of the eastern extension of the Indiana, 
                        Bloomington
                     and Western, as it was called, was May 15, "and the officers of the road will
                    take a ride over the line on that day." The grading in the city limits of 
                        Indianapolis
                     was nearly completed by the last of April; though on account of no room between Market
                    and Washington streets for an additional track, the new company was obliged to use the Bee Line
                        tracks.101 The road was finished sufficiently 
                  
                     98
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Feb. 2, 1882.
                  
                     99
                            Ibid., Jan. 21, 1882, and Feb. 22, 1882.
                  
                     100
                            Ibid., March 7, 1882.
                  
                     101
                            Sentinel, April 28, 1882.
               
                     by May 12, 1882, that the officers and directors left the
                    previous morning for Sandusky on a special train.102 The officials were very
                    enthusiastic about the road, which was almost entirely free from grades, and one of them said,
                    "The line runs through the cream of the country in Indiana and 
                        Ohio
                    ."103 The Sentinel, June 10, 1882,
                    announced that the telegraph poles were "all in position yesterday."
            Passenger traffic was carried over part of the line by June, 1882. The Sentinel,
                    June 13, refers to an "immense excursion run over a portion of the new eastern
                    extension," and also to the fact that General Manager Henderson "expressed himself
                    as being well pleased with the construction of the new division." The excursion must have
                    made an impression, for the Sentinel, June 22, spoke of the 
                        general boom in passenger business over the new extension, and George 
                                Butler
                             and assistants were kept employed all day stamping tickets.
                    A great military encampment in 
                        Indianapolis
                     during the week of July 3 brought a large number of visitors to the city and made
                    business good for the Indiana, 
                        Bloomington
                     and Western as well as other lines of road.104
            
            The total cost of the extension 
                        including purchases of right-of-way, steel rails, and construction, is placed at
                            $3,500,000. The road is 139.4 miles in length, giving a cost of
                            $25,000 per mile.105
                  
                    
                
            Thus it will be seen that the construction was much more substantial than the roads of thirty years
                    before, and that though it is inferior to modern railroad construction, the cost per mile runs
                    nearly what it does today. By the last of July, things were about complete, and we read as follows
                    in the Sentinel, July 20: 
                        Three daily through trains will be run between 
                        Columbus, Ohio
                     , and
                            Peoria. Through trains will connect both ways to and from Sandusky. Arrangements have been
                            perfected for connection at 
                                Columbus
                             with the 
                                Baltimore
                             and 
                                Ohio
                             and other lines east. After the 30th, no passengers will be hauled on freight
                            trains.
                    
                
            
               
                  102
                        Ibid., May 12, 1882.
               
                  103
                        Ibid., June 8, 1882.
               
                  104
                        Ibid., July 3–10, 1882.
               
                  105
                        Ibid., July 8, 1882.
            
            
            The following time-table was published in the Sentinel, July 30, 1882, and
                    succeeding issues, for the eastern division:
            
               
                  Leave 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Arrive 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
               
               
                  Mail express
                  4:35 P. M.
                  Pacific express
                  7:00 A. M.
               
               
                  Day express
                  11:00 A. M.
                  Western express
                  1:00 P. M.
               
               
                  Day express
                  11:00 A. M.
                  B. & R. I. express
                  10:45 P. M.
               
            
            Things looked auspicious at the start for the new division—several new switches were built
                    on it, and passenger business boomed.106 Most of the travel from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                        Detroit
                     had been by way of the 
                        Wabash
                    , but the Indiana, 
                        Bloomington
                     and Western, with its 
                        Ohio
                     connections, claimed just as short a route.107 The Sentinel, August 30, 1882, said: 
                        The earnings of the line for the third week of the month were the largest ever made by the
                            line, aggregating $83,819.71, an increase over the same time last month of
                            $16,164.79.
                    
                
            The following financial statement for the year ending December 31, 1882, for the Indiana, 
                        Bloomington
                     and Western is taken from Poor's Manual of Railroads for
                    1883:
            
            
               
                  Cost of property
                  $23,902,515.96
               
               
                  New construction, etc., 1882
                  617,266.08
               
               
                  Materials and fuel
                  280,543.52
               
               
                  Due from other companies, etc.
                  62,482.50
               
               
                  Cash on hand and in transit
                  211,951.95
               
               
                  Due from U. S. Government
                  
                            15,957.94
                        
               
               
                   
                  $25,090,717.95
               
               
                  Capital stock
                  $10,000,000.00
               
               
                  Funded debt
                  13,637,300.00
               
               
                  Bills payable
                  324,460.36
               
               
                  Current accts.
                  387,673.61
               
               
                  Other liabilities
                  158,636.86
               
               
                  Balance, income account
                  
                            582,647.12
                        
               
               
                   
                  $25,090,717.95
               
            
            The following operating statement showed a good business for the year 1882:
            
               
                  
                            Earnings
                        
                  
                            Expenditures
                        
               
               
                  Passengers
                  $924,725.60
                  Maintenance of way
                  $484,948.18
               
               
                  Freight
                  1,554,615.93
                  Rolling stock
                  360,726.64
               
               
                  Mail and express
                  112,827.98
                  Transportation
                  828,270.76
               
               
                  Miscellaneous
                  
                            148,057.49
                        
                  Miscellaneous
                  
                            113,957.27
                        
               
               
                   
                  $2,740,227.00
                   
                  $1,787,902.85
               
            
            
               
                  106
                        Sentinel, Aug. 19, 1882.
               
                  107
                        Ibid., July 25, 1882.
            
            
            That the business from the eastern extension and the lease of the 
                        Cincinnati
                    , 
                        Sandusky
                     and 
                        Cleveland
                     helped matters a great deal during 1882 is shown by comparing the earnings above with
                    those for 1881:
            
               
                  Passengers
                  $592,564.68
               
               
                  Freight
                  1,049,784.14
               
               
                  Mail and express
                  68,272.34
               
               
                  Miscellaneous
                  
                            115,445.68
                        
               
               
                   
                  $1,826,066.23108
                  
               
            
            As nearly half the line from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                        Springfield
                     runs through 
                        Ohio
                    , the story of the building of this section belongs to the history of 
                        Ohio
                     rather than of Indiana. In Indiana, however, there was great interest all along the
                    route, and this was perhaps most noticeable in Henry county, which contained the largest city, 
                        Newcastle
                    , through which the road passed between 
                        Indianapolis
                     and the 
                        Ohio
                     state line. Clarence H. Smith of 
                        Newcastle
                     has prepared the following valuable account of the contemporary activities in Henry
                    county in regard to the Indiana, 
                        Bloomington
                     and Western, especially for this sketch: 
                        Early in 1881 when the building of the Peoria and Eastern division of the Big Four, then
                            known as the Indiana, 
                                Bloomington
                             and Western, was being agitated the route running through 
                                New Castle
                            , county seat of 
                                Henry county
                            , on through 
                                Hancock
                             and 
                                Marion
                             counties to 
                                Indianapolis
                             was much in favor. Several other towns on different surveys were offering
                            strong competition for the line.
                        March 26, at a meeting of business men in 
                                New Castle
                            , the movement was started toward securing the road, Mr. I. N. Davis
                            representing the railroad company was present and arrangements were made for holding a mass
                            meeting of the citizens at the court-house on the 30th. Mr. Davis was present at this
                            meeting and told of the advantages to the company of the 
                                New Castle
                             route and a number of citizens spoke regarding the benefit to the town to have
                            a railroad connecting directly with 
                                Indianapolis
                            . Prior to the building of the Indiana, 
                                Bloomington
                             and Western 
                                New Castle
                             residents either had to drive nine miles south to Coffin's Station on
                            the National Road (now known as Dunreith) to catch a Pennsylvania train or went to 
                                Richmond
                             on the Panhandle to get a train to 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                        
                     
                        108 Poor's Manual of Railroads,
                            1882.
                  
                        
                        Mr. Davis stated that the company asked the right of way through the county and a subsidy of
                            $4000 per mile. Great interest was shown in the movement, and a committee was
                            appointed with Judge J. H. Mellett as chairman. This committee soon secured the number of
                            names required to petition the county commissioners to appoint days for a special election
                            in Blue River, Henry and Harrison townships, when the voters should
                            decide for or against the tax to build the road. These petitions were granted by the
                            commissioners and April 26 set as the day to vote. The Henry and Blue
                            River township voters were favorable to the tax by strong majorities and the
                            Harrison township citizens by a narrow margin, as the proposed line of the road barely
                            touched the township.
                        The local newspapers of the day were strongly favorable to the improvement and the 
                                New Castle
                            
                            Courier started a special column, headed at first ‘Railroad
                            News’ and later ‘Track and Train’. These columns were
                            filled with items of personal and local interest regarding the progress of the work on the
                            Indiana, 
                                Bloomington
                             and Western and other railroad lines. It was largely the work of Mr. Fleming
                            Ratcliff, of the Courier staff, who resigned his newspaper position in the
                            summer of 1882 to accept the position of first ticket agent at 
                                New Castle
                             on the Indiana, 
                                Bloomington
                             and Western. He served in this capacity for eight years when he returned to the
                            journalistic field and is today serving as one of the reportorial staff of The 
                                New Castle
                            
                            Times, after more than fifty-one years connection with the newspapers of
                            Henry county, continuous service except for his years with the Indiana, 
                                Bloomington
                             and Western.
                        As is the case with any improvement involving expense there was a strong element opposed to
                            the construction of the road through the county but they were by no means in the majority.
                            The greatest difficulties encountered in the building of the road were due to the crossing
                            of the Panhandle track about a mile northeast of 
                                New Castle
                             and the long low bottom land in the Blue River valley just
                            west of the town. This latter required the construction of a trestle, estimated to cost
                            $20,000. The contractors secured 175,000 feet of square oak timber and 75,000
                            feet of yellow pine, the latter being shipped direct from 
                        Memphis, Tennessee
                     , and costing about seventy dollars per thousand feet. This
                            trestle was long the wonder of the country round but in later years was filled.
                        Among interesting items found in the ‘Track and Train’ column of the
                                Courier is the statement under date of June 9, 1882, that
                            "with a few more days of nice weather, the Indiana, 
                                Bloomington
                             and Western track from 
                                New Castle
                             to 
                                Indianapolis
                             can be placed in condition to safely make thirty miles an hour over. It has
                            connected its rails with the Union tracks and there is reason to believe that trains will be
                            run between this point and 
                                Indianapolis
                             by July 1st." However, the contractors did better than this and had
                            the track in shape so that the first  train was run from 
                                New Castle
                             to 
                                Indianapolis
                            , June 30, 1882. It was a great event and everyone who could took advantage of
                            the excursion. Some time later the line east of 
                                New Castle
                             was completed. New activity in business was soon awakened, in fact 
                                New Castle
                             had quite a boom. By the fall of 1882 a new village, Mooreland, in
                                Blue River township, was started on the line of the new road and in
                            the western part of the county, 
                                Kennard
                            , was founded. Both are thriving small towns today. Some years later, in 1890,
                            when the 
                                Louisville
                             and 
                                Benton
                             Harbor division of the Big Four was constructed, the village of Shirley was
                            laid out at the crossing of the Indiana, 
                                Bloomington
                             and Western and the new road. It was named for the division superintendent of
                            the present Peoria and Eastern, Joseph A. Shirley. The Main street of the town constituted
                            the dividing line between 
                                Henry
                             and 
                                Hancock
                             counties. In time it grew to be the fourth town in Henry county in size.
                        Among items in the ‘Track and Train’ column of the Courier is the statement that the road put in 2640 cross ties to the mile between 
                                New Castle
                             and 
                                Indianapolis
                            . The issue of October 6, 1882, says ‘The more railroads we have the
                            more business comes to our town. A year ago it was argued that there was no demand for the
                            "long felt want" for a new road, and yet the first three months that the
                            Indiana, 
                                Bloomington
                             and Western has been operated, proves that there was business here ready for
                            it. The ticket sales at 
                                New Castle
                             for the quarter just ended are as follows: July $478.67, August
                            $1157.20, September $1429.45.’
                        " ‘G. W. Burnett, one of the chief engineers of the Indiana, 
                                Bloomington
                             and Western extension was in town this week looking over the work in
                            general.’
                        "‘J. D. Donaldson, an old and experienced contractor, has been placed
                            here as superintendent of construction on the Indiana, 
                                Bloomington
                             and Western between 
                                New Castle
                             and the 
                                Randolph county
                             line. It is the intention of the company to push the work on this portion as
                            rapidly as possible.’
                        ‘The Lutes Brothers will likely build five of the largest passenger stations on
                            the Indiana, 
                                Bloomington
                             and Western extension. The one at 
                                New Castle
                             will be of good style and finish (frame) 20 × 70 feet in
                            size.’
                        No citizen of 
                                New Castle
                             did more toward the promotion of the road in Indiana than Mr. R. M. Nixon,
                            associated with Charles W. Fairbanks of 
                                Indianapolis
                            . Mr. Nixon was a banker, serving as assistant comptroller of the currency under
                            President Harrison. Most of the suits brought against the right-of-way by opposers to the
                            road were adjusted through Mr. Nixon's efforts and many tax-payers secured the
                            money to meet their assessments through him.
                    
                
            Equipment in railroads, by the time the Peoria and Eastern East was built, had progressed
                    considerably over most of  the equipment hitherto described.
                    Steel rails were used instead of iron, but they were about the same weight, 60 pounds to the yard.
                    The gauge of the road was four feet, nine inches, and the rolling stock was as follows in 1881:
                    Locomotives, 93; passenger cars, 65; baggage, mails and express cars, 33; chair cars, 4; cabooses,
                    45; box cars, 1469; stock cars, 356; coal cars, 669; platform cars, 336.109 One
                    of the main differences in the track then and now was in the switches. The ends of the switches now
                    are tapered off to make a smooth junction with the rail; but in those days the switches had a stub
                    end to them where they came in contact with the rail. Of course, the train made a somewhat jarring
                    motion, but the railroaders of the time were accustomed to it. The switches of the time were all
                    hand-operated; the record of interlockers, marking the introduction of electric block signal
                    apparatus, in the state offices, goes back to 1884, but they did not come into use on the Big Four
                    lines until perhaps a year or two after that, according to C. H. Miller, foreman of maintenance of
                    way material for the Big Four at 
                        Beech Grove
                    . Mr. Miller says the first electrically operated switch on the present Big Four was in
                    the city of 
                        Indianapolis
                     near 
                        Massachusetts
                     avenue and Tenth street.
            Mr. Webb and Mr. Thompson remember very well these days.
            
                    When we were first on the road they used the old chair joints between rails; and as a liberal
                        allowance was made for expansion in laying the rails, we could tell whenever the engine went
                        over a rail joint, and it was clicketey-clack all along the line. The engines wore off the sharp
                        ends of the rails in going over them, and a welder was kept busy all the time filling out the
                        ends of these rails. The track was so loose that when we went over it it looked ahead like a big
                        crooked snake. Later they got fish-plates (these were plain bars which fit in the necks of the
                        rails and were bolted to them through holes punched in the rails) but these were not so secure
                        as the angle bars of today, which are bolted to the rails and also spiked down to the tie.
                
            The old system according to these gentlemen, was that an east-bound train must have the right of way
                    over one west 
                  
                     109 The preceding information about the equipment of the Indiana, 
                                Bloomington
                             and Western at the time is taken from Poor's Manual of
                                Railroads, 1882.
               
                     bound; but that if the east-bound train was twenty-five minutes
                    late at the scheduled junction point, the west-way train would have the right of way. Now, east-way
                    trains have the right of way under all conditions. Then, five minutes was allowed for variation of
                    watches, but now conductors and engineers have their watches inspected regularly and adjust them
                    regularly, so that there is practically no such thing now as variation of watches.
            Mr. Webb and Mr. Thompson have seen many improvements on locomotives, but the ones which seem to have
                    impressed them most have been the method of injecting water into the boiler under steam pressure,
                    and the air brakes. After the old period of bailing water into the boiler, a pump was installed on
                    the engine, operated by an arm attached to the cross-head which pumped water from the tender into
                    the boiler; but sometimes, going down hill, it would be found necessary to shut off this pump. Later
                    the steam injectors were substituted, but the first ones were huge, unwieldy things, not like the
                    small, easily-operated ones just under the cab of the modern locomotive. Their railroading began
                    with the era of hand brakes; then they had experience with the first air brakes, in which air
                    pressure was applied to the brakes of the different cars of a train in succession; but this had its
                    difficulties, since the rear part of a train would still be going while the brakes were applied to
                    the cars on the front part. The air brake system of today is based largely upon the triple valve by
                    means of which a balanced pressure is kept against the piston which operates the brakes. If air is
                    let out of the train line by means of the valve in the engine, or by the train breaking in two, this
                    balance is destroyed, the heavier pressure on one side causes the piston in the air reservoir on
                    each car to shove the brakes against the wheels. In this way all parts of the train are stopped
                    almost simultaneously.
            During the prosperous condition of the road, L. S. Rose gives the following summary of its
                    activities: 
                        March 24, 1881, to July 1, 1886, operated its own line (including the eastern extension).
                        May 1, 1881, to July 1, 1886, under lease dated March 8, 1881, for 99 years renewable
                            forever, operated line of the 
                        Columbus,
                                    Springfield
                     
                             and 
                                Cincinnati
                             Railroad company, extending from 
                                Springfield
                             to 
                        Columbus, Ohio
                     .
                        For same period and by provisions of same instrument as last quoted, operated that part of
                            line of the 
                                Cincinnati
                            , 
                                Sandusky
                             and 
                                Cleveland
                             Railroad company lying between 
                                Sandusky
                             and 
                        Springfield, Ohio
                     .
                        July 1, 1886, to January 10, 1888, through C. E. Henderson, receiver, operated the two lines
                            last mentioned.
                        January 1, 1882, to March 16, 1885, under perpetual lease, operated line of
                                    
                        Indianapolis, Decatur
                      and 
                                Springfield
                             Railway company, between 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, and 
                        Decatur, Illinois
                     .
                    
                
            However, the program was too much for the Indiana, 
                        Bloomington
                     and Western, and its finances began to suffer from a heavy bonded indebtedness and
                    large rental charges. The provisions of its perpetual lease of the 
                        Cincinnati
                    , 
                        Sandusky
                     and 
                        Cleveland
                     and the 
                  Columbus, Springfield
                and 
                        Cincinnati
                     were no doubt based on sanguine hopes for a great business from each road. These
                    provided for an annual rental of one-third the gross earnings up to a maximum of $550,000
                    all in excess of which was to go to the lessee; but they also provideed for a minimum rental of
                    $300,000. The road was unable to keep up this rental and suit was brought and judgment
                    rendered against the Indiana, 
                        Bloomington
                     and Western for back rental to the amount of $250,000; and as a result, C.
                    E. Henderson, receiver, took over the road, July 1, 1886. The following operating statement for the
                    year ending June 30, 1886, shows its financial straits:
            
               
                  Passenger earnings
                  $918,091.81
               
               
                  Freight earnings
                  
                            1,575,445.06
                        
               
               
                     Total
                  $2,493,536.87
               
               
                  Operating expenses and taxes
                  
                            1,653,753.79
                        
               
               
                  
                  $839,783.08
               
               
                  Rentals $342,795.79
                  
               
               
                  Interest 576,701.58—
                  
                            919,497.37
                        
               
               
                     Deficit
                  $79,714.29
               
            
            
            The bonded indebtedness had also mounted, and was as follows:
            
               
                  1st mortgage preferred
                  $1,000.000
               
               
                  1st mortgage
                  3,500,000
               
               
                  2nd mortgage
                  1,500,000
               
               
                  Income mortgage
                  71,800
               
               
                  1st mortgage eastern division
                  3,000,000
               
               
                  Cont. income
                  4,565,500
               
               
                  Sinking fund debenture
                  
                            500,000
                        
               
               
                   
                  $14,137,300110
                  
               
            
            The line went the way of many roads of the period which were under a like load of funded debt; and in
                    the case of John Hurd vs. the Indiana, 
                        Bloomington
                     and Western Railway Company, et al., for foreclosure of mortgages, the road was bid in
                    by a purchasing committee representing the holders of certain of the mortgage bonds, March 28,
                        1887.111 The line was conveyed to the purchasing committee, consisting of
                    Frederick P. Olcott, Dumont Clarke, John L. Farwell, J. Rogers Maxwell and William G. Wheeler,
                    including the franchise to be a corporation, May 26, 1887, by William P. Fishback, special master in
                    chancery. Mr. Rose writes: 
                        It will be noted, that under operating control, date of operation of the property extends
                            beyond that quoted for end of corporate existence. This is caused by necessity for including
                            operation of property on this company's report until date when successor assumes
                            active control.
                        November 29, 1886, an agreement for consolidation between this company, the 
                                Cincinnati
                            , 
                                Sandusky
                             and 
                                Cleveland
                             Railroad company and the 
                        Columbus, Springfield
                      and 
                                Cincinnati
                             Railroad Company was drafted but not filed and, because of financial stress,
                            nothing was ever done under its provisions.
                    
                
            It might be mentioned, however, that as all three of these roads later passed under the control of
                    the Big Four, they are virtually consolidated today; and through trains run from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                        Columbus
                    .
            After the Indiana, 
                        Bloomington
                     and Western was taken over by the purchasing committee, the part in 
                        Ohio
                     became 
                  
                     110 Poor's Manual of Railroads.
                  
                  
                     111 L. S. Rose.
               
                     the 
                        Springfield
                     & Western, the Indiana part the Indiana Railway company, and the 
                        Illinois
                     part the 
                        Pekin
                     and 
                        Danville
                    . The two last named consolidated as the Indiana and Western, and then it consolidated
                    with the 
                        Springfield
                     and Western, making the whole line the 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana and Western.112 This required considerable skillful legal
                    manipulation, but it enabled the re-organized company to be a home corporation in all three states.
                    The capital stock of the new company was fixed at $13,325,000, with seven directors, of
                    whom two were Indiana men, Charles W. Fairbanks and C. E. Henderson, both of 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            This road was also sold at foreclosure, February 20, 1890, to Charles H. Coster and Samuel 
                        Spencer
                    , who conveyed the line from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                        Springfield
                     to the C., C., C. & St. L., and the line from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                        Pekin
                     to the Peoria and Eastern, which did not operate its road, but leased it also to the
                    C., C., C. & St. L.113 However, on account of the heavy bonded
                    indebtedness hanging over the road from other days, these adjustments proved to be quite
                        complicated.114 The Peoria and Eastern, however, held an interest in the
                    line from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                        Springfield
                    , and it has always been known as the Peoria and Eastern East, while the line from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                        Pekin
                     is the Peoria and Eastern West. As previously stated, the latter is now under its own
                    management, through operated by the Big Four.
            Out of the numerous litigations over the road came one important legal decision, this in the
                    foreclosure suit of 1879, as told by J. P. Dunn: 
                        It had become a fashion of railroad companies controlled by bond-holders to pile up floating
                            debt preparatory to receivership and foreclosure. This caused great hardship to employes,
                            and material men, and James M. Butler, of the firm of McDonald and Butler, made a determined
                            fight in this case for a modification of the old equity rule which gave the mortgagee
                            absolute priority in such cases. Judge Drummond recognized the justice of the plea and
                            announced the now celebrated ‘six months rule’, which gave precedence
                            to claims for labor and 
                        
                           112 L. S. Rose.
                        
                           113 L. S. Rose.
                        
                           114 N. Y. C. Lines, Annual Reports, 1917, p. 462–5,
                                    give these adjustments in detail.
                     
                             material for six months prior to the receivership. The
                            decision was warmly contested but the rule was sustained by the Supreme Court, and has since
                            been established law. It is doubtful if any decision in this country ever brought larger and
                            more just relief to a large body of men.115
                  
                    
                
            "Yes, the Peoria and Eastern under different names, has seen some pretty hard
                    times," said Mr. Webb and Mr. Thompson, but like other of its veterans, they have a genuine
                    affection for the old road, and a pride in its present prosperity. They take pride in many things
                    about the road, among them the fact that E. M. Costin, former general manager of the Big Four, spent
                    his early railroading days on the Peoria and Eastern; and they declare that "it is his
                    first love".
            THE CINCINNATI, WABASH AND MICHIGAN
            Southern 
                        Michigan
                     is a very fertile and productive section, especially in fruits and vegetables, but it
                    is situated between the great lakes, so that its railroad outlet is naturally to the south, in order
                    to connect with the great east and west trunk lines. Although some of its products naturally find
                    their way to the lake ports, a great deal of them even in pioneer times, went to markets by way of
                    the east and west commercial arteries traversing Indiana.
            "The farm produce of southern 
                        Michigan
                    ," says E. J. Benton, "found its way to the canal at Ft. 
                        Wayne
                     over a plank road sixty miles in length."116 While the
                    northeast part of Indiana and the territory lying just north of it in 
                        Michigan
                     had its chief market at Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , the city of 
                        Wabash
                    , also on the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie canal, was also the center of trade for a large section of country.117
            
            
                    The farmers of Grant, 
                            Madison
                         and 
                            Delaware
                         counties found an outlet for their wheat at 
                            Wabash
                         after a long wagon haul,
                
            and four hundred to five hundred teams would often be in 
                        Wabash
                     unloading grain in a single day.118 It is very likely 
                  
                     115
                            Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 561.
                  
                     116
                            
                        
                                    Wabash
                                 Trade Route, 101.
                  
                     117
                            Ibid., 101.
                  
                     118
                            Ibid., 101.
               
                     that some of the produce of 
                        Michigan
                     found its way down to 
                        Wabash
                     and the canal, as well. Part of the territory now on the present 
                        Michigan
                     division of the Big Four was served by the old mail route between Ft.
                            
                  Wayne, Elkhart
                and 
                        Niles
                    , 
                        Michigan
                    , established in 1831.
            
                    Mail was carried every four weeks. The sound of a tin horn announced the coming of "old
                        Hall" as he came wending his way through the grove east of the village (
                            Elkhart
                        ) astride of one horse, and the mail bags, containing news from the settlements, on
                        the other, with a string fastened to the bits of leather in order to guide him in the right
                            path.119
               
                
            The line of the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie canal has always been an important trade route, for even when the canal
                    started to decline, the 
                        Wabash
                     railroad was built almost parelleling it, and serving the same territory. This was in
                    the early seventies, and a short time before that the Lake Shore road had been built across the
                    northern part of Indiana, from 
                        Cleveland
                     to 
                        Chicago
                    . Added to this was the Bellefontaine road, which as we have seen afforded by 1870
                    connections with important trade centers in the east. So, it was not surprising that a road should
                    be planned to run from southern 
                        Michigan
                     south, intersecting these trunk lines and having its terminal at 
                        Anderson
                     on the Bellefontaine.
            A prominent figure in railroading, especially railroad building, in that section in 1870, was Capt.
                    A. G. Wells of 
                  Kalamazoo, Michigan
               . He helped build the road from 
                        Kalamazoo
                     to White Pigeon, 
                        Michigan
                    , on which he made a profit by leasing it to the Lake Shore.120 The
                    ambitions on the part of the builders of the new road were also high, but the L. S. & M. S.
                    "refused to agree to buy it if built, as its projectors had been led to believe would be
                    the case." However, Captain Wells was aided in the building and projection of the road by
                    able men along the route, like Joseph H. Defrees of 
                        Goshen
                    , and William Williams of 
                        Warsaw
                    .121
            
            
               
                  119 Joseph H. Defrees in A. E. Weaver, History of 
                                Elkhart County
                            , p. 156–7.
               
                  120 N. Y. C. Lines, Annual Reports, p. 180; Stonex, newspaper clipping on
                        "Railroads of 
                            Elkhart County
                        ."
               
                  121 L. W. Royse, History of 
                                Kosciusko County
                            , 175.
            
            
            The line from White Pigeon to Anderson was not planned originally as one road, but was a
                    consolidation of two roads. The 
                        Grand Rapids
                    , 
                        Wabash
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                    , from 
                        Warsaw
                     to Anderson, was incorporated September 25, 1869, with a capital stock of
                    $2,000,000, and thirteen directors: Charles W. Chapman, Joseph Crabbs, Benjamin F. Lines,
                    James Brownlee, Thomas N. Stillwell, Joseph Pugh, Calvin Cowgill, David Kirkpatrick, Charles S.
                    Tibbetts, Jonathan P. Winslow, Eli David, Milton S. Robinson and Jacob Harter. A few months later,
                    February 9, 1870, the 
                  Warsaw, Goshen
                and White Pigeon railroad was incorporated, with
                    a capital stock of $250,000, shares being one hundred dollars each. The directors were E.
                    W. H. Ellis, John W. Egbert, Milo S. Hascall, Joseph W. Defrees and W. W. McBeth of 
                        Leesburg
                    ; L. J. North of 
                        Milford
                    , David Rippey of 
                        Leesburg
                    , and A. T. S. Keist and Charles W. Chapman of 
                        Warsaw
                    . Joseph H. Defrees was president of the road; but the two largest subscribers were
                    George Goss and A. G. Wells, both of 
                        Kalamazoo
                    , who subscribed $25,000 apiece, while the others contributed one hundred
                    dollars each.
            Outside a few men like Mr. Goss, Captain Wells, and Mr. Gardner, of whom more will be said later, the
                    financing was at first almost entirely local. Great interest was taken all along the proposed line
                    of the road, and county and township subscriptions practically assured the successful completion of
                    the entire line from 
                        Elkhart
                     to Anderson. 
                        Wabash county
                     held an election early in November, 1869, and an appropriation of $65,000 to
                    aid the railroad, or about $6,000 a mile, was voted by a majority of eight hundred.122 The township in which 
                        Goshen
                     is situated in 
                        Elkhart county
                    , voted "by a very large majority" a tax of $45,000 to aid
                    the road.123
            
            Meanwhile, things were successful in the counties along the proposed 
                        Grand Rapids
                    , 
                        Wabash
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                    . 
                        Kosciusko county
                     voted an appropriation and followed in March, 1870, with a two per cent. tax for the
                    road from 
                        Warsaw
                     to 
                        Goshen
                    .124 Grant county also voted a tax for a similar purpose. 
                  
                     122
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Nov. 4, 1869; C. W. Weesner, History of 
                                    Wabash County
                                , 237.
                  
                     123
                            Sentinel, Jan. 29, 1870.
                  
                     124
                            Ibid., Nov. 18, 1869; March 13, 1870.
               
                     The hottest opposition, for some cause that is not entirely
                    clear, occurred in 
                        Madison county
                    . There an appropriation of $147,000 was proposed, but "money was
                    spent without stint by those opposed to the road."125 However, the
                    election carried by a large majority.126 The effect of the vote was taken to the
                    Supreme court on injunction proceedings, and an adverse decision was given in 1874.127 The elections were held by townships—Anderson township donated
                    $28,000, 
                        Monroe
                     township, $24,000, and 
                        Boone
                     $7,500. A proposal to include $8,000 was voted down in 
                        Boone
                     township.
            The 
                        Grand Rapids
                    , 
                        Wabash
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                     built no road, but the line from 
                        Goshen
                     to 
                        Warsaw
                     was built and opened to traffic August 15, 1870. It continued its operation until June
                    30, 1871, when it was consolidated with the other road as the 
                  Cincinnati, Wabash
                and 
                        Michigan
                    , from 
                        Elkhart
                     to Anderson. The capital stock was fixed at $2,250,000, with the following
                    directors: Ransom Gardner, A. G. Wells, 
                        Kalamazoo
                    ; Joseph H. Defrees, E. W. H. Ellis, 
                        Goshen
                    ; Charles W. Chapman, A. T. S. Keist, 
                        Warsaw
                    ; Calvin Cowgill, Jacob Harter, David Kirkpatrick, 
                        Wabash
                    ; Charles S. Tibbetts, Grant county; Milton S. Robinson, Thomas N. Stillwell, 
                        Madison county
                    . The stockholders in each company were to continue as stockholders in the combined
                    company, with "the same rights and privileges in the said consolidated company which they
                    now have in the present company whereof they are now stockholders." The articles of
                    consolidation were signed by Joseph H. Defrees, president, and E. W. H. Ellis, secretary, of the
                            
                  Warsaw, Goshen
                and White Pigeon, and C. Cowgill, president, and F. M. Eagle,
                    secretary, of the 
                        Grand Rapids
                    , 
                        Wabash
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                    .
            The consolidated company put forward the work on the line to Anderson with energy, and progress is
                    reported as follows in the 
                        New York
                     Central Lines Annual Reports for 1917, p. 455: 
                        Extensions of the road between 
                                Goshen
                             and 
                                Warsaw
                            , Indiana, were built and put in operation as follows: to North 
                                Manchester
                            , Indiana, 
                        
                           125 Anderson Herald, quoted in Sentinel, Nov. 20, 1869.
                        
                           126 Forkner and Dyson, Historical Sketches of 
                                            Madison County
                                        , 82.
                        
                           127 Forkner and Dyson, Historical Sketches of 
                                            Madison County
                                        , 82.
                     
                             August 27, 1871; to 
                                Wabash
                            , Indiana, September 20, 1872; to 
                                Marion
                            , Indiana, December 24, 1873; to 
                                Fairmount
                            , Indiana, June 22, 1875; and to Anderson, Indiana, November 1, 1876.
                    
                
            A great deal of enthusiasm was shown along the line as the road was built. The first train left 
                        Warsaw
                     going north, August 9, 1870, according to L. W. Royse, who also says that A. T. Skist
                    was the first freight and ticket agent at 
                        Warsaw
                    .128 Dr. P. G. Moore, of 
                        Wabash
                     says that there was quite "an enthusiastic public" when the road was
                    finished to that city.129
                    
                        Commodious machine shops of the company were subsequently erected near the eastern limits of
                            the corporation, the city of 
                                Wabash
                             paying a bonus of $25,000 as an inducement for the location. The
                            appropriation seems to have been a judicious one.130
                  
                    Shops at 
                        Wabash
                     today serve the 
                        Michigan
                     division of the Big Four, although there are also shops at South Anderson, where the 
                        Michigan
                     division crosses the 
                        Cleveland
                     division, or old Bellefontaine. Forkner and Dyson write as follows of the coming of the
                    road to Anderson: 
                        An arrangement was effected with the P. C. C. & St. L. road by which the C., W.
                            & M. used its track into Anderson until the latter could construct a bridge across
                                White river, and extend its track into the city. It was several
                            months until the C., W. & M. bridge was built. A depot was erected between Fifth and
                            Sixth streets in Anderson, and later burned; then being in control of the Big Four, used the
                            Big Four depot.
                        Mr. Gardner of 
                                Michigan
                            , the first president, died at 
                                Anderson
                             in May, 1876, and the remains were taken home on the first passenger train run
                            over the road between 
                                Anderson
                             and 
                                Wabash
                            . They were accompanied as far as the latter city by one hundred Anderson
                            business men and prominent citizens.131
                  
                    
                
            The capital stock, as mentioned previously, was $2,250,000; and July 1, 1871,
                    $2,000,000 of first mortgage seven per cent bonds were authorized for a twenty year term,
                    interest 
                  
                     128
                            History of 
                                    Kosciusko County
                                , 175.
                  
                     129 This information was contained in a personal letter to the writer.
                            Dr. Moore says the first train to Wabash came by way of 
                                Elkhart
                            , May 23, 1872.
                  
                     130 Helm, History of 
                                    Wabash County
                                , 145.
                  
                     131
                            Historical Sketches of 
                                    Madison County
                                , 82.
               
                     to be payable semi-annually. These bonds were to be issued to
                    the contractors in charge of construction of the road at the rate of $16,000 per mile of
                        road.132 By December 31, 1873, eighty-one miles of road, to 
                        Marion
                    , were in operation, and the bonds amounted to $1,200,000.133 By the end of 1875, these bonds amounted to $1,456,600, the road having been
                    completed to 
                        Alexandria
                    , 101 miles. The cost of rolling stock was then $175,000, and the estimated
                    cost of finishing the road was placed at $2,544,000, an estimate which later proved to be
                    far too low. The following equipment was owned by the company: Seven locomotives, 5 passenger cars,
                    6 baggage, mail and express cars, 48 box cars, 17 platform cars, 39 coal cars, besides 16 cars used
                    exclusively in the service of the road. The following operating statement was given:
            
               
                  Passenger earnings
                  $71,640.00
               
               
                  Freight
                  101,738.26
               
               
                  Miscellaneous
                  
                            18,760.00
                        
               
               
                   
                  $192,138.26
               
               
                  Operating expenses
                  
                            76,850.00
                        
               
               
                  Balance to meet expenses
                  115,288.26
               
               
                  Interest on bonds
                  
                            47,880.00
                        
               
               
                  $67,408.26134
                  
                   
               
            
            This presented a good showing, but the road, in the seven years of plenty, made no provision for the
                    lean years. Every year the surplus which was left was expended on construction, and evidently no
                    dividends were paid on the capital stock. This was likely due to the fact that Captain Wells and his
                    associates expected the Lake Shore to buy the road, which they did not. Again, although the
                    authorized capital stock was $2,250,000, only $1,500,000 was actually paid in.
                    The late seventies were hard years on all railroads; and although operating expenses increased
                    enormously as the road was completed to Anderson, the gross earnings increased but little.
            
               
                  132
                        Poor's Manual of Railroads, 1872-3.
               
                  133
                        Ibid., 1874-5.
               
                  134
                        Ibid., 1876-7, for all these statistics for 1875.
            
            
            This may be shown by the operating statement for 1879, the last year before the road was
                    re-organized:
            
               
                  Passenger earnings
                  $99,272.87
               
               
                  Freight earnings
                  104,676.08
               
               
                  Mail, express, etc.
                  
                            11,543.47
                        
               
               
                   
                  $215,492.42
               
               
                  Operating expenses
                  $191,853.39
               
            
            Thus it will be seen that only a little over $20,000 was available after deducting
                    operating expenses. Meanwhile, the entire amount of bonds, amounting to $2,000,000, had
                    been issued when the road was completed, which would involve an annual expenditure for interest of
                    $140,000; the road had acquired a floating debt of $26,000; and the cost of
                    the road, which had been estimated at $2,544,000, proved to be $3,418,500,
                    including equipment.135 Naturally it failed, and the failure broke Captain Wells
                    financially, according to Abraham E. Weaver.136
            
            Even in 1877, the net income after operating expenses were paid, was only $47,300,137 only a fraction of the interest on the bonds, and following court action,
                    the road was taken over, January 2, 1878, by Amasa Stone, Jr., and Jeptha H. Wade, trustees for the
                    mortgage bondholders, who operated it until May 28, 1880.138
            
            The deed of trust, which secured the mortgage bondholders, gave them the power of sale, and so Mr.
                    Stone and Mr. Wade conveyed the road to a syndicate "in the name of and for the use and
                    benefit of the said mortgage bondholders", including, besides some individuals who had
                    already been active in the management of the road, the 
                        Cleveland
                     Rolling Mill Co., the Citizens Savings and Loan Association of 
                        Cleveland
                    , and the Lake Shore and 
                        Michigan
                     Southern railroad. On account of the comparatively small equity the bondholders had
                        
                  
                     135
                            Poor's Manual of Railroads, 1880. The writer has changed a few
                            figures, as the printed statement shows several flagrant errors in addition.
                  
                     136
                            History of 
                                    Elkhart County
                                , p. 171.
                  
                     137
                            Poor's Manual of Railroads, 1878.
                  
                     138 N. Y. C. Lines, Annual Reports, 1917, p. 455. Dr. P. G. Moore of 
                                Wabash
                             says: "Calvin Cowgill of 
                                Wabash
                             and Dr. Carey were prominent attorneys in the case."
               
                     in the road after it was finished, they were able to purchase
                    it for $2,100,000; and then they proceeded to reorganize it.
            The new 
                  Cincinnati, Wabash
                and 
                        Michigan
                     was incorporated April 16, 1880, under the general laws of Indiana, but the new
                    syndicate's title was not perfected, so as to allow them a deed to the road, until May 28,
                        1880.139 The capital stock was fixed at $3,000,000, and the
                    following officers were elected: J. H. Wade, president; William Bingham, vice-president, and W. S.
                    Jones, secretary-treasurer, all of 
                        Cleveland
                    . The following officials were continued in office from the old regime: 
                        Norman
                    
                    
                        Beckley
                    , 
                        Elkhart
                    , general manager; Owen Rice, 
                        Wabash
                    , general freight and ticket agent, and S. B. Tinker, 
                        Wabash
                    , master mechanic. The road began to prosper and showed a favorable balance in the
                    profit and loss account of $67,452.98 for 1880.140
            
            Meanwhile a 
                        Michigan
                     corporation of $1,000,000, the 
                        Elkhart
                    , 
                        Niles
                     and 
                        Lake Michigan
                    , had been formed in 1880, to build a road from Niles to the state line just north of 
                        Elkhart
                    . The C. W. & M. passed, November 11, 1880, a resolution to extend their line
                    from 
                        Elkhart
                     to the state line so as to join with this other road. Both lines were completed by
                    1882, and were consolidated as the 
                  Cincinnati,
                            Wabash
                and 
                        Michigan
                    , August 11 of that year.141 The capital stock was
                    $4,000,000, and the market values of the stock in the two companies which combined must
                    have been unequal, for provision was made in the articles of consolidation for equalizing this
                    difference in the distribution of the stock of the consolidated company. J. H. Wade, president;
                    William Bingham, vice-president, and W. S. Jones, secretary-treasurer, were continued as officers of
                    the new organization, and with the following constituted the first board of directors: H. B. Payne
                    and C. P. Leland, 
                  Cleveland; Norman
                Beckley, C. E. Cowgill, C. Cowgill, Joseph H. Defrees, 
                        Elkhart
                    ; F. M. Gray, Niles (former president of the 
                        Elkhart
                    , 
                        Niles
                     and 
                        Lake Michigan
                    ); and H. W. Williams, 
                        Benton
                     Harbor. The general officers of the road were established at 
                        Elkhart
                    , though the present officers of the 
                        Michigan
                     division 
                  
                     139 N. Y. C. Lines, Annual Reports, 1917, p. 455.
                  
                     140
                            Poor's Manual of Railroads, 1881.
                  
                     141 N. Y. C. Lines, Annual Reports, 1917, pp. 455-6.
               
                     of the Big Four are at 
                        Wabash
                    . The long desired connection with Lake 
                        Michigan
                     was realized when the line completed an extension from Niles to 
                        Benton
                     Harbor, November 13, 1882.142
            
            Of course, there were plenty of romance and characteristic railroad experiences in these times on the
                    C. W. & M. The writer has not attempted heretofore to treat this phase of the
                    road's history because G. W. Haydon, a retired engineer, of Benton Harbor, 
                        Michigan
                    , has done this in a very complete and satisfactory manner. Superintendent E. H.
                    Zeigler, of the 
                        Michigan
                     Division, through whose courtesy Mr. Haydon's reminiscences are here
                    reproduced, pays him the following fine tribute: 
                        He is a man of most estimable character and worth, who probably contributed as much energy as
                            any other man in the construction of what is now the 
                                Michigan
                             Division of the Big Four system. Mr. Haydon retired from the service in 1918
                            under our pension rules, after serving faithfully for forty-eight years, beginning as a boy
                            of all work and closing as a passenger engineman, and in all these years never a mark
                            against his record.
                    
                
            Mr. Haydon writes as follows: 
                        
                     
                                Benton
                             Harbor, Mich., June 11, 1916.
                        I entered the service of this Company May 15, 1870, in construction service with a promise of
                            a job firing as soon as there was an open the A. G. Wells. (All locomotives had a name as
                            well as a number.)
                        This company was composed of A. G. Wells, superintendent; R. Gardner, president, and Joe
                            Milard, secretary-treasurer, and was incorporated as the State Line and 
                                Warsaw
                             railroad, and remained as such until completed to 
                                Warsaw
                             in the fall of 1870, when it was reorganized as the 
                                Grand Rapids
                            , 
                                Wabash
                             & 
                                Cincinnati
                             railroad, with A. G. Wells and R. Gardner sole owners, Mr. Milard retiring and
                            going into the paper manufacturing business at 
                                Niles
                            , 
                                Michigan
                            .
                        When we started to lay rails at 
                                Goshen
                             they were all iron rails at this time, steel rails were unknown. Iron was
                            $70.00 per ton. Everything went smoothly until we reached 
                                Milford
                            , twelve miles south of 
                                Goshen
                            , when we struck a sink hole. This place did not seem to have any bottom; after
                            working all day, everything would look all right, but by morning rails and ties would be out
                            of sight. There were no 
                        
                           142 N. Y. C. Lines, Annual Report, 1917, p. 456.
                     
                             splices at this time. The rails were fitted together in
                            what were called chairs, the chairs being spiked to the ties with three spikes, so we lost
                            some rails.
                        We cut and put into this place ten acres of tamarack, one hundred and fifty carloads of old
                            ties from the L. S. & M. S. railroad, and all of the dirt that could be gotten
                            between 
                                Goshen
                             and 
                                Warsaw
                             and still there is a sag in the road to this day.
                        By this time we had three engines, No. 1 (the A. G. Wells), No. 2 (the 
                                Warsaw
                            ), and No. 3 (the 
                                Wabash
                            ).
                        1871, 
                                Warsaw
                             South
                        The road was now known as the 
                                Grand Rapids
                            , 
                                Wabash
                             and 
                                Cincinnati
                             railroad, with regular service between 
                                Goshen
                             and 
                                Warsaw
                            . There were no agents, all fares being collected on the train. When the local
                            freight pulled in the drays backed up to the car door and the conductor would check out the
                            freight and charge just what he thought it would stand, no record of anything.
                        By this time I was beginning to be considered an old hand and whenever there was anything
                            special to do some of the officials would say ‘Where is Haydon?’ This
                            began to look encouraging. If the fireman was sick or wanted to lay off, it was
                            ‘Get Haydon’; if there had to be a trainload of ties made ready for
                            morning it was ‘Send Haydon’, no extra compensation, but still it gave
                            some privileges.
                        The grading and track laying was progressing rapidly between 
                                Warsaw
                             and Claypool. The company had a saw-mill at Claypool getting out ties and
                            bridge timbers. The mill was run by John Wells, brother of the superintendent. The first
                            thing he did was to get out the lumber and build himself a house and hotel. This was the
                            first house in Claypool (I think his widow lives in this house at the present time).
                        The country from 
                                Warsaw
                             to North 
                                Manchester
                             was a virgin forest, hardly a stick of timber being cut out. There was any
                            amount of walnut, three four and five feet through and worth only $10.00 per
                            thousand feet, white oak ties twenty-five cents.
                        The track laying was kept up as close to the grading as possible; all of our locomotives were
                            wood burners, and the summer and fall being very dry the woods caught fire, burning for
                            miles and for days. The whole force had to fight fire. Nothing of importance happened
                            between Claypool and North 
                                Manchester
                             with the exception of a small sink hole about two and one-half miles north of
                            North 
                                Manchester
                            . This caused some trouble. I will never forget this place because after running
                            over it for days, all at once it would sink almost out of sight. On the first regular train
                            that was run over it there was an old man got on at Silver Lake going
                            to North 
                                Manchester
                             who had never ridden on a train before. In fact, he had never seen a train.
                            Everything went well until we crossed the sink hole, when the track went down and the coach
                            tipped over. It did not hurt anyone, as the train was running slowly, but it scared the poor
                            old man almost to death, and all  of our persuasion
                            could not get the old chap on the cars again, so he walked back to Silver
                            Lake. When we first reached North 
                                Manchester
                             you could not see the town. It was all forest and the 
                                Grand Rapids
                            , 
                                Wabash
                             and 
                                Cincinnati
                             was their first railroad.
                        1872
                        After leaving North 
                                Manchester
                            , Eel River had to be bridged, which took some time, but
                            from there to the 
                                Wabash County
                             poor farm work progressed pretty rapidly, but from the poor farm the work was
                            very heavy with a grade of from seventy-five feet to eighty-five feet per mile. The company
                            was anxious to reach 
                                Wabash
                            , as this was to be the terminal and there was considerable money at stake in
                            the way of subsidies. When we reached the 
                                Wabash
                             railroad, we ran our trains into 
                                Wabash
                             over this road, our turn-table being just north of the wye, finally completing
                            the work under the 
                                Wabash
                             railroad into 
                                Wabash
                            , having our depot at the foot of Elm street. There were boats running on the 
                                Wabash
                             and Erie canal at this time, but not many. By this time we had four
                            locomotives, the additional one being No. 4 (named the M. R. Gardner, after the president of
                            the road). The road was re-organized as the 
                        Cincinnati, Wabash
                      and 
                                Michigan
                             railroad, and remained as such until it was taken over by the Big Four.
                        1873
                        Now that the road was completed to 
                                Wabash
                            , it began to look like a railroad. We had four regular trains, two passengers
                            and two freights, between 
                                Goshen
                             and 
                                Wabash
                            , the passenger making a round trip from 
                                Wabash
                             to 
                                Goshen
                             and return, the freight from 
                                Goshen
                             to 
                                Wabash
                             and return, the freight carrying passengers. The freight and passenger business
                            was good. The only railroad that we crossed from 
                                Wabash
                             to 
                                Goshen
                             was the P. F. W. & C. railroad at 
                                Warsaw
                            , and we did not do any business with them, this road being run for the benefit
                            of the L. S. & M. S. All of the east and west roads excepting the L. S. & M.
                            S., P. F. W. & C., and the 
                                Wabash
                            , have been built since 1872.
                        
                     
                                Wabash
                             being the terminal, there was considerable work to be done, laying out the
                            freight yard, building the shops, also a bridge across the Wabash
                            river. Everything that was done seemed to cost ten times what it should, as it
                            was all rock, and then to make a bad matter worse, here came the failure of Jay Cook
                            & Company, and it was impossible to borrow money, so there was not much headway in
                            construction work for the next year. About all the money the company had for construction
                            was the earnings of the road. This was considerable, as the passenger fare was four cents
                            per mile, no competition on freight, and no State Railway commission, but with all of the
                            drawbacks we built through to 
                                Marion
                             by the fall of 1874. A roundhouse was built at North 
                                Marion
                             (this roundhouse burned down in 1875).
                        
                        In 1876 Mr. Gardner died at the Doxey House in Anderson. This was a sad blow, for he was the
                            financier. We kept plodding along. Pay days were few and far between. It was next to
                            impossible to get any money. I was running an engine at this time. The offices were at 
                                Wabash
                            , Owen Rice was paymaster. When we would ask him for a little money his answer
                            would be ‘not today.’ Sometimes you would get an order for some
                            groceries. Finally the road was built into Anderson. The company was five months behind with
                            the pay of all trainmen, in fact all of the men but those in construction work. When we
                            reached North Anderson we ran into Anderson over the Pan Handle until the bridge was
                            completed over White river. This was in 1877. In 1878 the road was sold
                            at foreclosure sale at 
                                Wabash
                             and bid in by Wade & Stone, of 
                                Cleveland
                            , A. G. Wells losing everything.
                        1878
                        Wade & Stone were sole owner and they appointed Mr. Norman Beckley, general manager.
                            He was a thorough railroad man from the L. S. & M. S. railroad. The first thing he
                            did was to pay all of the employes two months pay and every month after that we got two
                            months pay until we had received all of our back pay. I was runing local freight at this
                            time for $2.53 per day. The division was from Anderson to 
                                Goshen
                            , one hundred and ten miles. It took six days and six night ending at noon
                            Sunday to do a week's work. You would put on your clothes at 4:00 o'clock
                            Monday morning and never take them off until noon the following Sunday. This was not the
                            exception, it was the general rule. I used to live next to the old jail at 
                                Anderson
                            . You will never know how I envied the fellows that were inside that building.
                            Mr. Beckley extended the road to 
                                Elkhart
                             in 1880. Mr. O. W. Lamport was superintendent.
                        In 1881-1882 the road was extended to 
                                Niles
                            , 
                                Michigan
                            , and in 1883 it was extended to 
                                Benton
                             Harbor, 
                                Michigan
                            , the present terminal. I ran the first through freight. The division was from
                            Anderson to 
                                Benton
                             Harbor, one hundred and sixty-five miles, and it took the full twenty-four
                            hours. The crew consisted of five men, engineman, fireman, conductor and two brakemen.
                        G. W. HAYDEN
                  
                    
                
            Meanwhile, a road was being built from 
                        North Vernon
                     to Rushville, called the 
                        Vernon
                    , 
                        Greensburg
                     and Rushville. It was incorporated July 11, 1879, with a capital stock of
                    $400,-000 with the "privilege of increasing same if deemed necessary to
                    $500,000." It was financed almost entirely by local capital, and no subscription
                    of over $3,500 appears on the articles of incorporation. There were thirteen directors,
                    John E. Robbins, William W. Hamilton, James M. Davis, Daniel Bacon,  Antrim R. Forsyth, Hagerman Tripp, Will Cumback (famous in politics and
                    literature), Cortez Ewing, Leonidas Sexton, George B. Elston, John Meek, Thomas Shaw, and Henry C.
                    Miller. Practically all these men lived in 
                  North
                        Vernon, Greensburg
                and Rushville.
                    The subscriptions were taken up to a degree that the company was 
                        able on December 15, to let the contract for the entire work of putting the road in readiness
                            for the cars. Col. Horace Scott of 
                                Louisville
                            , was awarded the contract, and the road was opened to 
                                Greensburg
                            , April 15, 1880, and Rushville, September 10, 1880.143
                  
                    
                
            The road was promptly leased by the 
                  Cincinnati,
                            Indianapolis, St.
                        Louis
                and 
                        Chicago
                    , who thus secured a connection with several east and west roads, principally the 
                        Baltimore
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     and the C. I. & W. 
                        The lessee agreed to pay taxes, interest on bonds, and operating expenses, and to carry
                            without interest the debt due to it by the lessor company.
                    Though it did this successfully, it was quite a load—the cost of the road was
                    $600,000 not including $20,000 real estate. It seems that only
                    $50,000 actually was subscribed as capital stock, and that the road was largely financed
                    by $450,000 of first mortgage bonds, with a floating debt of $75,000.
            The 
                  Cincinnati, Wabash
                and 
                        Michigan
                     and the 
                        Vernon
                    , 
                        Greensburg
                     and Rushville had no connection for many years, in fact, until 1891. The idea of a
                    railroad from Rushville north was not new, as we find a local law passed January 21, 1850,
                    incorporating the Rushville and Muncietown railroad with $200,000 capital stock and seven
                    directors, all Rushville men. The Rushville and 
                        Shelbyville
                     railroad was given the privilege of taking stock, and perhaps it was meant to be a
                    subsidiary of that line. However, it remained for the 
                  Cincinnati, Wabash
                and 
                        Michigan
                     to build the road from Rushville to Anderson forty-one years later.
            Considerable interest was created along the route of the extension; and a sample of this is shown in
                    the following communication 
                  
                     143 Hardin, History of 
                                    Decatur County
                                , 394.
                  
                     144
                            Poor's Manual of Railroads, 1883. Townships also subscribed
                            liberally, and the Democrat Printing Company's History of 
                                    Rush County
                                , p. 632, says Rushville township subscribed $18,000.
               
                     from T. B. Deem, of 
                        Knightstown
                    , sent from St. Augustine, 
                        Florida
                    . 
                        Knightstown
                     is in some respects the most important town on this extension, and is where it crosses
                    the Pennsylvania. Mr. Deem gives the following interesting facts: 
                        Down here I do not have access to any statistical facts concerning the building of the 
                                Michigan
                             Division of the Big Four through 
                                Knightstown
                            , so I can only give you some recollections of the events. Mr. Norman Beckley
                            was manager of a road already built south from 
                                Elkhart
                             to Anderson. A road already built from Rushville to 
                                North Vernon
                             connected with lines both to 
                                Cincinnati
                             and 
                                Louisville
                            . This left a gap of about thirty-seven miles to connect the great lakes and the
                                Ohio River. Mr. Beckley's idea was to connect the two
                            systems for mutual benefit. The people about 
                                Knightstown
                             readily took up with the project. It had long been their desire to secure an
                            outlet to the north and south, and indirectly a competitor to the Pennsylvania's
                            east and west lines running through the city. The pressure of public opinion helped in
                            securing reasonable settlements for right-of-way from land owners along the route. I
                            remember that when it was desired to come to agreement with one stubborn farmer north of
                            town a large number of representative townsmen and farmers visited the farm with the
                            railroad's solicitors and by their presence and sympathy procured an amicable
                            adjustment. 
                                Wayne
                             township (including 
                                Knightstown
                            ) voted a subsidy—I think $49,000—in favor of
                            the project. The road was built in due time and has been very favorably appreciated by the
                            public. Of course, your inquiry about Shirley leads me to say that the town did not come
                            into existence until the building of the 
                                Indianapolis
                             and 
                                Springfield
                             branch of the Big Four system had been completed some years later.
                        
                     
                                Ripley
                             township, Rush county, including 
                                Carthage
                            , also voted a subsidy. During the period of competition among railroad systems
                            the new road was a great help to shippers in the way of rates; but of course under
                            government control the only advantages derived by the public is convenience of access to
                            north and south points.
                        I do not now recollect any striking fact concerning the first train passing over the
                        road.
                    
                
            About the same time an arrangement was effected with the 
                        Baltimore
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     and the L. & J. Bridge whereby the Big Four could use their tracks from 
                        North Vernon
                     into 
                        Louisville
                    , thus insuring through service from 
                        Louisville
                     to 
                        Benton
                     Harbor, 
                        Michigan
                    . The Big Four by this time had obtained control of the entire line; it operated the
                            
                  Cincinnati, Wabash
                and 
                        Michigan
                     from July 1, 1891, until it acquired it  by
                    purchase in 1915,145 and it operated or leased the 
                        Vernon
                    , 
                        Greensburg
                     and Rushville ever since it acquired the C. I. St. Louis & C. in 1889, now
                    controlling it through a majority of capital stock.146 The line from 
                        Louisville
                     to 
                        Benton
                     Harbor is now known as the 
                        Michigan
                     division of the Big Four.
            Industry flourished along the road and John Morris says that most of the factories in 
                        Marion
                     were built after 1880.147 A great stimulus to the company occurred
                    when natural gas was discovered in 
                        Madison
                     and Grant counties, and to lesser extent in some of the adjoining counties, in 1887.148 Though this "boom" is waning, yet the 
                        Michigan
                     division does a thriving business, and has given excellent service to rich territory.
            CONCLUSION
            Five main divisions of the Big Four are included in the roads which have been discussed in the
                    foregoing sketches. These are:
            The 
                        Cleveland
                     division, from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                        Cleveland
                    , comprising the old 
                        Indianapolis
                     and Bellefontaine, and its successors, the 
                        Ohio
                     connections.
            The 
                        Chicago
                     division, from 
                        Cincinnati
                     to 
                        Chicago
                    , comprising the 
                        Lafayette
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                    , and the 
                  Cincinnati, Indianapolis, St.
                    Louis
                and 
                        Chicago
                    , and their successors. The sketches of road which were formerly the
                            
                  Fairland, Franklin
                and 
                        Martinsville
                    , and 
                        Columbus
                    , 
                        Hope
                     and 
                        Greensburg
                    , the 
                        Cincinnati
                     and Southern Ohio River, and the Whitewater Valley railroad are
                    also included in the same division.
            The 
                        St. Louis
                     division from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                        St. Louis
                    , including the old 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                     and the 
                        St. Louis
                    , 
                        Alton
                     and 
                        Terre Haute
                    .
            The 
                        Springfield
                     division, or Peoria and Eastern East, from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                  Springfield, Ohio
               , which is the same as the 
                  
                     145 N. Y. C. Lines, Annual Reports, 1917, p. 456.
                  
                     146
                     Ibid., 459.
                  
                     147
                            History of 
                                    Grant County
                                , 5.
                  
                     148 Whitson, History of 
                                    Grant County
                                , 64.
               
                     old eastern extension of the Indiana, 
                        Bloomington
                     and Western.
            The 
                        Michigan
                     division, from 
                        Louisville
                     to 
                        Benton
                     Harbor, comprising the 
                  Cincinnati,
                            Wabash
                and 
                        Michigan
                     and its 
                        Michigan
                     connections, and the 
                        Vernon
                    , 
                        Greensburg
                     and Rushville. Its trains are run into 
                        Louisville
                     over the tracks of the 
                        Baltimore
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     and L. & J. B. by agreement with those roads.
            The history of the Cairo division, from 
                        Danville
                     to 
                        Cairo
                    , 
                        Illinois
                    , properly belongs to the history of 
                        Illinois
                    , but it has two minor extensions running into Indiana. One of these runs from St.
                    Francisville, 
                        Illinois
                    , to 
                        Vincennes
                    , Indiana, and was started by the 
                        Vincennes
                     and Cairo Railroad company, which was incorporated in 1871. This was merged the next
                    year with the 
                        Cairo
                     and 
                        Vincennes
                    , which completed the road, as well as a longer line from St. Francisville to Cairo.140 It had several changes in organization, but has been operated since 1890 and
                    owned since 1913 by the C., C., C. & 
                        St. Louis
                    . The 
                  Evansville, Mt. Carmel
                and Northern, now part of the Cairo
                    division, was built from 
                  Mt. Carmel, Illinois
               , to 
                        Evansville
                    , Indiana, in 1906 and opened to traffic July 1, 1911.150 The Big
                    Four now owns all the capital stock of the company and operates it under contract.
            Three subsidiary lines operated by the Big Four, but not a part of its regular system, are either
                    wholly or in part in Indiana. These are:
            The Peoria and Eastern West, from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to Peoria, most of whose history has been included in the history of the eastern
                    division.
            The 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        Jeffersonville
                     Bridge. According to Esarey charters were granted in 
                        Kentucky
                     in 1829 and again in 1856 for the building of a bridge across the 
                        Ohio
                     from 
                        Louisville
                     to 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , but the bridge was not finished until 1870, when it was considered one of the wonders
                    of the Middle West.151 Baird, History of 
                            Clark County
                        , 115, writes 
                  
                     149 N. Y. C. Lines, Annual Reports, 1917, p. 454.
                  
                     150
                     Ibid., 459.
                  
                     151
                            History of Indiana, Volume II, p. 720.
               
                     as follows of the building of the bridge and the organization
                    of the railroad company: 
                        In 1865 Congress, by act, authorized that the 
                                Louisville
                             and 
                                Nashville
                             and 
                                Jeffersonville
                             (evidently the J. M. & I.) Railroad companies, who were stockholders in
                            the 
                                Louisville
                             Bridge company, to construct a railway bridge across the 
                                Ohio
                             at the head of the Falls. The section of the superstructure was begun in May,
                            1868, and on February 1, 1870, the spans were connected. The first train passed over,
                            February 12, 1870. This bridge cost $2,003,696.27. In the various accidents
                            during the construction of this work there were fifty-six men killed and eighty wounded.
                    
                
            The 
                  Evansville, Indianapolis
                and 
                        Terre Haute
                    , from 
                        Evansville
                     to 
                        Terre Haute
                    , is an outgrowth of the following:
            
               
                  
                            Names
                        
                  
                            Incorporated
                        
               
               
                  
                     
                                Wabash
                             and Erie Canal
                  January 28, 1824
               
               
                  
                     
                        Evansville, Indianapolis
                      & 
                                Cleveland
                             Straight Line Railroad Co.
                  April 16, 1853
               
               
                  
                     
                                Evansville
                             & 
                                Indianapolis
                             Railroad Co. (No. 1)
                  August 5, 1869
               
               
                  
                     
                                Terre Haute
                            , 
                                Worthington
                             & 
                                Bloomfield
                             Ry. Co.
                  May 11, 1871
               
               
                  
                     
                                Cincinnati
                             & 
                                Terre Haute
                             Railway Co.
                  June 7, 1871
               
               
                  
                     
                                Evansville
                            , 
                                Washington
                             & 
                                Chicago
                             Railroad Co.
                  April 29, 1875
               
               
                  
                     
                                Terre Haute
                             & Worthington Railroad Co.
                  March 8, 1876
               
               
                  Petersburg & Worthington Railroad Co.
                  January 23, 1878
               
               
                  
                     
                                Evansville
                            , 
                                Worthington
                            , 
                                Brazil
                             & 
                                Chicago
                             R.R. Co.
                  April 8, 1878
               
               
                  
                     
                                Evansville
                            , 
                                Washington
                             & 
                                Brazil
                             R. R. Co. (No. 1)
                  April 8, 1878
               
               
                  
                     
                                Evansville
                            , 
                                Washington
                             & Worthington R. R. Co.
                  April 29, 1878
               
               
                  
                     
                                Terre Haute
                             & Southeastern Railroad Co.
                  June 6, 1878
               
               
                  
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             & 
                                Evansville
                             Railroad Co.
                  March 6, 1880
               
               
                  
                     
                                Evansville
                            , 
                                Washington
                             & 
                                Brazil
                             R. R. Co. (No. 2)
                  June 22, 1880
               
               
                  
                     
                                Evansville
                             & 
                                Indianapolis
                             Railroad Co. (No. 2)
                  June 16, 1884
               
               
                  
                     
                                Evansville
                             & 
                                Indianapolis
                             Railroad Co. (Con.)
                  November 7, 1885152
                  
               
            
            Though in a struggling condition during three decades following the Civil war, the growth of the
                    country and its economic development has made prosperity for all the divisions of the C., C., C.
                    & 
                        St. Louis
                    . "A little over thirty years ago, when the Big Four was new," says
                    Assistant to the Vice-President J. Q. Van Winkle, "Mr. Ingalls called some of us 
                  
                     152 The above list is taken from Col. Oran Perry's History of 
                                    Evansville
                                 and 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Railroad and Constituent Companies, 1917, p. 1, written while the road
                            was in the hands of a receiver, just prior to being taken over by the Big Four.
               
                     together and said, ‘The receipts for the past year
                    were $12,000,000, and if we raise them to $15,000,000 the coming year we will
                    be able to pay all our expenses and still have some left. For last year the receipts were about
                    $96,000,000. There is nothing remarkable about this growth—the railroad has
                    simply kept pace with the development of the country it serves."
            What the Big Four today means to the state of Indiana and the city of 
                        Indianapolis
                     has ably been expressed by General Agent C. R. Myers: 
                        The C., C., C. & 
                                St. Louis
                             or Big Four runs into six states. It serves 237 cities and towns in Indiana. It
                            runs through forty-four counties in Indiana. It serves 255 industries by private side-tracks
                            in 
                                Indianapolis
                            . It employs near six thousand citizens of 
                                Indianapolis
                            . Its payrolls in 
                                Indianapolis
                             amount to nearly $800,000 a month. It runs seventy-eight passenger
                            trains a day in and out of 
                                Indianapolis
                            . It repairs 720 locomotives and 4,600 cars annually in 
                                Indianapolis
                            . It handles 120,000 freight cars through 
                                Indianapolis
                             monthly. Every dollar the road collects in 
                                Indianapolis
                             it spends in 
                                Indianapolis
                             for labor, rents, taxes and materials. It carried 6,244,602 passengers in 1922.
                            It owns 35,957 freight cars, 1,238 passenger and other service cars, and 926 locomotives.
                        The Big Four railroad is now owned and controlled by the 
                                New York
                             Central Railroad company, which owns 92 per cent. of the common stock. The
                            lines of this great system lie in the states of 
                        New York, Massachusetts, New Jersey
                     , 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , 
                        West Virginia, Ohio, Kentucky
                     , Indiana, 
                        Michigan, Illinois, Missouri, Vermont
                      and the Canadian provinces of 
                                Quebec
                             and 
                                Ontario
                            , the most populous territory of the North American continent.
                        It has always been the policy of this road to keep pace with the growth of 
                                Indianapolis
                             and to aid in its development. The prosperity of each depends upon the other. A
                            prosperous railroad means a prosperous community. From a small sparsely settled village 
                                Indianapolis
                             has become a large thriving city mainly through its transportation facilities,
                            the energy of its merchants and manufacturers, and the personal interest of the managers of
                            its railroads.
                    
                
            Great improvements have been made by the Big Four in equipment and right-of-way since it was formed
                    by the consolidation of the various other roads in 1889. Most of the lines have been double-tracked,
                    and that since the consolidaion,  and much heavier rail
                    installed—in 1889, most of the rail used was 60-lb. rail, and this has been replaced by
                    rail for the most part 105-lb.
            The greatest improvement has taken place on the 
                        Chicago
                     division between 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                    , where several large curves have been straightened. The most noteworthy engineering
                    feat of this kind has been the elimination of the so-called Tanner's Creek menace near 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    . On the original right-of-way, the road descended a steep hill in the vicinity of
                    Guilford, and crossed Tanner's creek several times before entering 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     Junction, as the creek was very winding at that place. Not only was the pull up the
                    hill from 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     Junction to Guilford very difficult, but Tanner's creek, which is subject to
                    heavy and sudden floods, caused constant damage to the road-bed and track. The Big Four, at its own
                    expense, straightened the course of Tanner's creek, constructed a fill out of 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     Junction which ran parallel to the straightened course of the creek, and made a cut in
                    the hill which made a gradual slope from 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     Junction up the Guilford hill. This made the pull up the hill much easier, and also
                    eliminated the numerous bridges of the road over the creek. Now, because of the fill, the road runs
                    along the creek at an elevation, so that its sudden rises cause no damage and no hindrance to the
                    movement of trains.153 The cost of all these improvements on the 
                        Chicago
                     division between 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                     (by far the greater part going to the elimination of the Tanner's creek
                    menace), according to C. R. Myers, has been almost as great as the original cost of the old 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                     railroad.
            A graphic way to show the progress in equipment and construction is to compare some old
                    advertisements of 1889 with the same kind of material used today. The advertisements quoted from
                    below are taken from Poor's Manual of Railroads for 1889 and 1890.
            
               
                  153 The facts concerning the elimination of the Tanner's Creek
                        menace were given the writer by E. W. Chance, formerly of that vicinity, now Big Four agent at 
                            Beech Grove
                        .
            
            
            The following description is given of the Fisher Standard Single U-Bolt Joint: 
                        The rail ends are supported by the long-flanged beam, secured on two ties by spikes passing
                            through it. They are held down to it by the nuts and the two ends of the U-bolt passing up
                            vertically through it, and the corners of the rail bases.
                    
                
            The Angle Bar, the modern form of rail-joint, as previously described, is bolted to the side of the
                    rails, and also spiked down against the flanges of the rail and the ties, making a very secure
                    joint. Some modern ones have patented joints, that is, grooves into which the flange of the rail
                    fits before the Angle Bar is spiked to the tie.
            Several foundries advertise steel blooms, old-fashioned pieces of steel used in the old-time bloom
                    rolling-mill. Now steel billets are used for this purpose; and with the introduction of better
                    machinery, and the substitution of automatic processes for hand processes on some of the rolling
                    mill operations, the billets can be of any shape, whereas the old blooms had to be round.
            Hendricks Brothers advertise among other things, locomotive firebox copper. Although sheet-steel was
                    not at first successful when used in fire-boxes, it has been adjusted so that it has entirely
                    supplanted copper for this purpose in America. Mention of gasoline headlights reminds one also that
                    they have been almost entirely superseded by electric head-lights with current furnished by a steam
                    turbo-generator on the engine.
            Richard Dudgeon advertises packs for pressing on crank-pins on locomotive wheels. Now they are fitted
                    on by specially-built mechanical presses. An advertisement by the Eames Vacuum Brake Co. brings back
                    the fact that at one time a vacuum instead of increased air pressure was introduced to break the
                    balance of pressure in the air tanks and thus operate the brakes. Many firms advertise wrought-iron
                    turnbuckles, which are used to regulate the amount of stress on the truss-rods underneath a freight
                    car, and a great many cars are still equipped with them, although they and truss-rods are gradually
                    being replaced by all steel underframes.
            
            The Locomotive Lubricating Co. call attention to their lubricator, "the only lubricator used
                    on crank pins having a positive feed, as it is kept directly in contact with the pin and is worn
                    away as the pin requires lubrication." The lubricators on the locomotives of today are in
                    the cab, and contain pipes to various places on the engine to be lubricated, through which the oil
                    is driven to them by means of steam pressure, though a few places are still lubricated by hand. Thus
                    the engineer can regulate most of his lubrication from the cab.
            Paul S. Reeves, in the advertisement of his tubal smelting works, says, "lead-lined and
                    phosphor-bronze car bearings a specialty." Today, car bearings are of brass, and are lined
                    with babbitt, a special alloy of copper, tin and antimony, which makes a very smooth surface.
            One interesting advertisement is for the anti-friction bearings of the Car Truck Supply Company.
                    "The car body rests on seven hard steel rollers at each end of each bolster; these rollers
                    revolve once or more at each curve and therefore could not wear flat." Now, there is a
                    special bolster called the body bolster secured to the car body; this fits into a round place in the
                    heavier truck bolster, and is fastened to it by means of a king-pin. This not only forms a
                    substantial bearing for the car body, but enables it to turn more gradually than the truck on a
                    sharp curve.
            No doubt it would be interesting to speculate on the improvements of thirty years from now in
                    railroad material; but no doubt thirty years from now will find the Big Four in this department
                    still abreast of the times.
         
      
      
         
      
   
