
      ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 104, Issue 1, pages 1-118. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2009).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:104+issue:1+year:2008&browseMode=source
    
      ----FULL TEXT----
        
          
               
               
               
               
               
               
          
          
               
               
                    Editor's Note
                    
                         
                              Indianapolis
                          has known its share of socially conscious clergymen-from Henry
                         Ward Beecher, who preached in the 1840s, to William H. Hudnut, the
                         minister-mayor who helped to reshape the city in our own time. In this
                         issue, the IMH offers contrasting interpretations of the
                         legacy of another Hoosier man of the cloth: Oscar McCulloch, of the
                         city's Plymouth Congregational Church. For Brent Ruswick,
                         McCulloch's turn, in the 1880s, away from an early focus on the
                         evils of "pauperism" presages his importance to
                         subsequent generations of social-work professionals. Elsa E Kramer points
                         to a different legacy: the twentieth-century eugenics movement, which
                         relied, as she shows, upon a reworking of McCulloch's research.
                         These differing sides of McCulloch's legacy remind us not only of
                         continued controversies over the origins of social inequality, but also of
                         the possibility of drawing distinct historical insights from similar
                         sources.

                    On April 25-26, the IMH will cosponsor "Thomas
                         Hart Benton's Indiana Murals at 75: Public Art and the Public
                         University," at Indiana University. This conference, which will
                         result in a special issue of the IMH, brings scholars
                         from around the country to examine Benton's 1933 masterpieces and
                         the importance of their placement on a public university campus. For
                         registration information, visit
                         http://www.iub.edu/-iuam/special_exhibitions/benton/index.html, or call
                         (812) 855-7718.

                    Finally, a note on subscriptions. The Indiana Historical Society has begun
                         levying a surcharge for those of its members who wish to continue receiving
                         the IMH. The IHS offer still represents a discount off
                         the rate offered by the IMH to its direct subscribers.
                              IHS members seeking assistance ordering or renewing
                         the IMH may call the society's membership
                         office, (800) IHS-1830, or email membership@indianahistory.org.
                    

                    Alternately, you may as always order your subscription directly from the
                         journal's offices in 
                              Bloomington
                         . To do so, please call us at (812) 855-5374, or email
                         imaghist@indiana.edu. Whatever your choice, we welcome your continued
                         patronage of the IMH.
               

               
               
                    The Measure of Worthiness The Rev. Oscar McCulloch and the Pauper Problem,
                         1877-1891
                    BRENT RUSWICK
                    No social student will question the existence of such a
                         law of degeneration in society, or has failed to see such degraded forms of
                         life. He sees the social parasite, the pauper in whom the instinct of
                         self-help has disappeared. He sees the children, under the same law,
                         becoming like their parents; and all this he is powerless to help.1
                         Oscar McCulloch, 1880
                    I see no terrible army of pauperism, but a sorrowful
                         crowd of men, women and children.... It is not a war against anybody....It
                         is...simply a question of organization, of the best method for the
                         restoration of every one.... Therefore, I say, we look upon men, women and
                         children, whom we call paupers, or now distinguish into paupers and poor,
                         pitifully, but hopefully; for not one but may be brought back by persistent
                              effort.2 Oscar McCulloch, 1891 
                    
                         Brent Ruswick is a visiting assistant professor of history at the
                              University of Central Arkansas and recent Ph.D. from the University of
                              Wisconsin history of science department. The author would like to
                              thank the anonymous reviewers of the Indiana Magazine of
                                   History as well as Eric Sandweiss and Dawn Bakken for their
                              helpful comments and editing. Joyce Coleman was also of great help in
                              reading earlier versions of this paper. The author also is grateful
                              for the assistance and support of Lynn Nyhart and Victor Hilts, as
                              well as the librarians and staff at the Indiana State Historical
                              Society and Indiana State Library.
                         1Oscar McCulloch, Organized Charity
                                   in Cities (
                                   Indianapolis
                              , 1880); originally published as "Associated
                              Charities" in E B. Sanborn, ed., Proceedings of
                                   the Seventh Annual Conference of Charities (
                                   Boston
                              , 1880), 122-35.
                         INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, 104 (March 2008) C 2008, Trustees of
                              Indiana University.
                    
                    
                    
                         Plymouth Congregational Church (left), 
                                   Indianapolis
                              , 1880 
                         McCulloch, pastor of the church from 1877 until his death in 1891,
                              regularly preached sermons on social reform from its pulpit
                          Bass Photo Collection, Indiana Historical Society
                    
                    Hoosiers remember the Reverend Oscar C. McCulloch as the religiously and
                         politically unorthodox minister of
                              Indianapolis's
                          Plymouth Congregational Church who, from 1877 until his death
                         in 1891, founded and ran a dizzying array of charitable programs within the
                         city. Foremost among those programs was the Indianapolis Charity
                         Organization Society, a consortium of aligned charities whose members
                         aspired to investigate the conditions of each poor person in the city,
                         ascertain the true nature of his or her want, and prescribe appropriate
                         remedies. Likewise, historians of 
                              Indianapolis
                          typically have emphasized 
                              2Oscar McCulloch, "The True Spirit
                                   of Charity Organization," May 18, 1891, box 1, folder 1,
                                   Oscar C. McCulloch Papers (Indiana State Library, 
                                        Indianapolis's
                                   ). 
                         
                          the local and religious contexts of his
                         philanthropic work.3 McCulloch's faith and
                         liberal biblical exegesis indeed motivated his efforts to recreate the
                         practice of charity along bureaucratic and scientific principles, and those
                         efforts made him a highly visible and controversial figure statewide.

                    McCulloch's historical importance, however, does not end at the 
                              Indiana
                          state line. Among historians of poverty and of the eugenics
                         movement, McCulloch stands as a prominent figure in the national
                         "scientific charity" movement, a highly influential
                         reform initiative of the Gilded Age and Progressive Era that sought
                         profound changes in how Americans thought about and treated poverty. To
                         these historians, McCulloch is notorious for his enthusiastic promotion of
                         the idea that a distinct subgroup of poor persons - the paupers - were
                         biological degenerates, beyond hope of reformation or partial improvement.
                         McCulloch also became one of the first Gilded Age reformers to implement
                         restrictions on charitable relief and to speculate that forcible
                         restrictions of matrimonial and reproductive rights might be the best
                         method of dealing with the biologically unfit. 

                    McCulloch worked his way to national prominence on three fronts: the
                         construction and operation of the Indianapolis Charity Organization
                         Society; his research into the clan of 
                              Indiana
                          paupers known as the "Tribe of Ishmael"; and
                         his foundational papers on the proper aims and basis of scientific charity,
                         presented at the influential National Conference of Charities and
                         Correction. The conclusions McCulloch derived from his work in 
                              Indianapolis
                          rapidly gained great influence throughout the national
                         scientific charity movement in the early 1880s. His research convinced
                         reformers of what they already suspected: that paupers - the
                         "unworthy poor" who supposedly chose to live off relief
                         that they obtained by deceiving charities - were biologically degenerate
                         persons. As such, they were destined to spend their lives as unrepentant
                         mendicants, peddling their fabricated stories of hardship to 
                              3Genevieve C. Weeks, Oscar
                                        Carleton McCulloch, 1843-1891: Preacher and Practitioner of
                                        Applied Christianity (
                                        Indianapolis
                                   , 1976), xiv-xvi. See also Weeks, "Oscar C.
                                   McCulloch: Leader in Organized Charity," Social Service Review, 39 (June 1965), 209-221; Weeks,
                                   "Religion and Social Work as Exemplified in the Life of
                                   Oscar C. McCulloch," Social Service
                                        Review, 39 (March 1965), 38-52. Stephen Ray Hall,
                                   "Oscar McCulloch and Indiana Eugenics" (Ph. D.
                                   diss., Virginia Commonwealth University, 1993) is an incredibly
                                   rich source of primary material concerning McCullochs work, and
                                   it places him within a larger scientific context.
                         
                          unsuspecting benefactors. Worse, their
                         children would be born biologically predisposed towards the same fate.
                         McCulloch's local research made the 
                              Indianapolis
                          minister a national star among scientific charity reformers
                         who craved evidence for their contentions that pauperism was fundamentally
                         different from ordinary poverty, that it constituted a grave national
                         menace, and that it necessitated extreme invasions of privacy and
                         restrictions on charitable giving.

                    By the late 1880s, however, McCulloch shifted his emphasis away from
                         biological pauperism and redefined the tenets of scientific charity to
                         focus on the social origins of all forms of poverty. The national leaders
                         of the movement soon followed his ideas, abandoning their commitment to a
                         hard biological distinction between the worthy poor and the unworthy
                         pauper. Relocating McCulloch's charitable work in 
                              Indianapolis
                          within larger national trends of charitable relief and poverty
                         research changes our view both of the man and of the movement. The study
                         reveals how the term "pauper" went from being defined as
                         a nuisance to a menace, before being abandoned as antiquated and
                         inaccurate. It brings us a more complete appreciation of the significance
                         of McCulloch's innovative work in 
                              Indianapolis
                         , and of its continuing relevance to American attitudes
                         regarding the poor. More importantly, McCulloch's transformation
                         demands that we reconsider the national scientific charity movement as more
                         dynamic and complex, and eventually more progressive and historically
                         influential, than the moralizing, repressive movement that historians
                         typically depict.4

                    
                         THE PAUPER IN 
                                   INDIANAPOLIS
                               HISTORY

                         While the pauper had long been an object of moral condemnation in 
                                   America
                              , prior to the 1870s he did not constitute a threat so
                              much as a nuisance. His aggressive pursuit of alms violated Victorian
                              and Christian notions of the meek and modest poor, as well as those of
                              the classical liberal American vision of the able-bodied performing an
                                   
                                   4This view is articulated most
                                        forcefully by George Fredrickson, The Inner
                                             Civil War: Northern Intellectuals and the Crisis of the
                                             Union (
                                             New York
                                        , 1965); Walter L. Trattner, From
                                             Poor Law to Welfare State: A History of Social Welfare
                                             in 
                                                  America
                                             
                                        (
                                             New York
                                        , 1974), 75-95; Paul S. Boyer, Urban Masses and Moral Order in 
                                                  America
                                             , 1820-1920 (
                                             Cambridge
                                        , 
                                             Mass.
                                        , 1978), 142-62; Michael B. Katz, In the Shadow of the Poorhouse: A Social History of
                                             Welfare in 
                                                  America
                                              (
                                             New York
                                        , 1986), 83-86, 113; and Katz, Poverty and Policy in American History (
                                             New York
                                        , 1983), 90-92.
                              
                               honest day's labor.5 In small towns, the agencies of charitable
                              relief - churches, the township trustee, and private philanthropists -
                              dealt with the pauper problem on a case-by-case basis. They generally
                              knew who had fallen onto hard times and merited relief, and who had a
                              reputation for idleness or drunkenness and therefore was an unworthy
                              pauper.

                         Conditions in 
                                   Indianapolis
                               typified this traditional relationship between charitable
                              giver and recipient. The city's main charitable organization,
                              the Indianapolis Benevolent Society (IBS), had dispensed private
                              charity in the form of food and clothing to the local poor since 1835.
                              Distribution occurred face-to-face, with persons reportedly of the
                              "highest respectability" delivering to citizens
                              known within the community to be in dire and legitimate need of help.
                              According to the IBS, the first tramps - paupers traveling from town
                              to town looking for the most generous public and private relief
                              accommodations - had arrived in 1851 to a reaction "so
                              immediate and hostile that it led at once to recommendations that
                              assistance either at the door or on the street be refused
                                   them."6 Lacking large population
                              turnover or the periods of mass unemployment that came with a fully
                              industrialized economy, the city had no need for a coordinated
                              approach to the challenge of identifying deceitful paupers. Indeed,
                              one scholar has described 
                                   Indianapolis's
                               coordination of state, county, town, and private relief
                              in this period as "an extraordinary tangle of confused
                                   responsibility."7

                         This local knowledge and treatment of pauperism functioned well enough
                              in antebellum 
                                   Indianapolis
                              , but faltered under the transition towards an industrial
                              economy and mass population mobility introduced by the Civil War. The
                              influx of freed slaves, foreign immigrants, and rural workers into
                              northern cities, and the return of hundreds of thousands of soldiers,
                              many of them disabled by war, produced poverty and social
                              disorganization on a scale never before seen in 
                                   America
                              .8
                              
                                   5See, for instance, Boyer, Urban Masses and Moral Order in 
                                                  America
                                             ; Robert Bremner, From
                                             the Depths: The Discovery of Poverty in the 
                                                  United States
                                              (
                                             New York
                                        , 1956); Bremner, The Public Good:
                                             Philanthropy & Welfare in the Civil War
                                             Era (
                                             New York
                                        , 1980); Katz, In the Shadow of the
                                             Poorhouse; Katz, Poverty and Policy
                                             in American History.
                                   6Indianapolis Charity Organization
                                        Society, Year-book of Charities 1886 (
                                             Indianapolis
                                        , 1887), 7-9, 13-15.
                                   7Frederick Doyle Kershner Jr.,
                                        "A Social and Cultural History of 
                                             Indianapolis
                                        , 1860-1914" (Ph. D. diss., University
                                        of Wisconsin-Madison, 1950), 39.
                                   8See, for instance, Robert Wiebe, The Search for Order, 1877-1920 (
                                             New York
                                        , 1967), 12, 44.
                              
                              Charitable groups could not maintain
                              personal knowledge of all the poor, and thus could not distinguish
                              legitimate cases of want from the dishonest claims of paupers.

                         
                              
                                   Indianapolis
                               exemplified both the national trends of urban growth and
                              poverty that challenged traditional charitable relationships and the
                              resulting impulse to better organize and coordinate charity. As it
                              became a major railroad hub during the 1860s, the city's
                              population grew from 18,611 to 48,244 over the decade - a 160 percent
                              growth rate matched only by 
                                   San
                                        Francisco
                               and 
                                   Chicago
                              . Recent emigrants from elsewhere in the 
                                   U.S.
                               comprised half the population. A post-war economic boom
                              spanned 1865 through 1874 and created new family fortunes that
                              threatened the privileged social and economic position of the old
                                   rich.9 The boom, however, drew on strong
                              speculation in real estate and in the growth of competing independent
                              railroads that radiated outwards from the city, and could not be
                              sustained.

                         The collapse of the House of Cooke and other banks that had propped up
                              weak railroads with easily available credit sparked a national panic
                              in September 1873. Capitol of a state with a primarily agricultural
                              economy, 
                                   Indianapolis
                               weathered the immediate fallout, but in early 1875, crop
                              and bank failures and railroad consolidation caught up to the city
                              "with a completeness that was paralyzing." As 
                                   Indiana
                               historian Emma Lou Thornbrough notes, "[w]ithin
                              a few weeks there were reports of hundreds of unemployed vainly
                              seeking work at the pork-packing establishments in 
                                   Indianapolis
                              ."10 Wages, which had risen
                              steadily since the war, now plummeted. Historian Frederick Kershner
                              observes that from 1873 to 1879, wages at the Shaw Carriage Company
                              dropped from $2.50 to $1.42 a day. The Indianapolis Manufacturers and
                              Carpenters Union saw a similar decline in median wages, from $2.40 to
                              $1.43. Complicating the situation, 
                                   Indianapolis's
                               borders sprawled out in all directions as the population
                              continued to swell.11
                              
                                   Indianapolis
                              
                              
                                   9
                                             U.S.
                                        , Bureau of the Census, Fifteenth
                                             Census of the 
                                                  United States
                                             , 1930: Population (
                                             Washington
                                                  D.C.
                                        , 1931), 18-19, in Kershner, "A Social
                                        and Cultural History of 
                                             Indianapolis
                                        ," 54, 95.
                                   10Emma Lou Thornbrough, 
                                                  Indiana
                                              in the Civil War Era, 1850-1880 (
                                             Indianapolis
                                        , 1989), 275-76.
                                   11
                                             U.S.
                                        , Bureau of the Census, Tenth
                                             Census of the 
                                                  United States
                                             , 1880: Wages (
                                             Washington
                                        , 1886), 42, 62, 76, 142, 385-86, 414-15, 442,
                                        465; Thornbrough, 
                                                  Indiana
                                              in the Civil War Era, 559. James H.
                                        Madison notes that while the city experienced great
                                        population growth, its residents were much more likely than
                                        other city-dwellers to settle permanently. Madison, The 
                                                  Indiana
                                              Way: A State History (
                                             Bloomington
                                        , 
                                             Ind.
                                        , 1986), 177-78.
                              
                              residents, like those in other
                              cities, did not know one another, did not know who was poor or why
                              they were poor, and had no infrastructure for finding out. Calls for
                              centralized coordination of the city's charitable work
                                   increased.12

                         In this confusion, Oscar McCulloch rose to become a key national figure
                              in the effort to construct a new infrastructure and new theories for
                              addressing pauperism and poverty. McCulloch brought a blend of social
                              and theological liberalism and scientific enthusiasm to his work in 
                                   Indianapolis
                              . Raised as a Presbyterian in a religiously strict family,
                              McCulloch had begun his professional career as a traveling salesman in
                              the American West. Biographer Genevieve Weeks speculates that his
                              encounters with diverse characters in this line of work might have
                              been responsible for his movement towards a more liberal theology.13 Eventually, McCulloch chose to abandon this
                              career in favor of becoming a minister, and enrolled at the
                              Congregationalist Chicago Theological Seminary in September 1867.
                              Through extensive reading and debating with classmates, McCulloch
                              crystallized his new theology. Weeks points out that from the start of
                              his first pastorate in 
                                   Sheboygan
                              , 
                                   Wisconsin
                              , he gave more sermons on topics of practical interest and
                              concern than on theological doctrine. Several sermons analyzed the
                              latest scientific and technological discoveries and their application
                              to Christian ethics. He furthermore stressed "a loving,
                              forgiving Father instead of Calvin's punishing, revengeful
                              God" and advised that individuals should discover the
                              "liberty of religion" and not just the "law
                              of religion."14 When McCulloch moved on
                              to 
                                   Indianapolis
                               in 1877 to lead the Plymouth Congregational Church, his
                              reputation as an unorthodox reformer preceded him.
                    
                    
                         THE PAUPER AS PARASITE

                          No evidence exists that the topical sermons McCulloch delivered in 
                                   Sheboygan
                               ever dealt with poverty-a lack due perhaps in part to the
                              dearth of surviving newspaper articles relating to his 
                                   Wisconsin
                               sermons 
                                   12Thornbrough, 
                                                  Indiana
                                              in the Civil War Era, 276-78. Also
                                        Clifton J. Phillips, 
                                                  Indiana
                                              in Transition: The Emergence of an
                                             Industrial Commonwealth, 1880-1920 (
                                             Indianapolis
                                        , 1968), 469-70.
                                   13Weeks, Oscar Carleton
                                             McCulloch, 13.
                                   14Ibid., 24-33, esp. 25.
                              
                              and in part to the scarcity of the
                              minister's own writings. McCulloch began a diary only after
                              arriving in 
                                   Indianapolis
                              , yet the first recorded impression of the city that he
                              entered was that its residents "have not had much hand in
                              relieving the poor, I judge."15 In
                              January 1878 he recorded a meeting with members of a severely
                              impoverished family. McCulloch's first remarks on the family,
                              which appeared in his January 18, 1878 diary entry, under the title
                              "A Case of Poverty," described a family composed of a man, half-blind, a
                                   woman, and two children, the woman's sister and child,
                                   the man's mother, blind, all in one room six feet
                                   square. One bed, a stove, no other furniture. When found they had
                                   no coal, no food. Dirty, filthy because of no fire, no soap, no
                                   towels. It was the most abject poverty I ever saw. We carried
                                   supplies to them.16

                         It is uncertain just how McCulloch came upon this family, which he soon
                              dubbed the "Tribe of Ishmael," but their shocking
                              condition both disturbed and moved him. He investigated the
                              family's history at the township trustee's office,
                              where all records of public poor relief were kept. There he discovered
                              the astonishing extent and historical depth of the family's
                              dependence on public relief. Generation after generation of the
                              Ishmael family had grown up depending on charitable or public relief
                              and suffering from the full gamut of social dysfunctions. To
                              McCulloch's eyes, the Ishmaelites were not worthy people
                              suffering ordinary poverty, but paupers living wanton and debased
                              lives. But why did the pauperism recur, with one generation repeating
                              the sins of its ancestors?

                         McCulloch thought that some of the answer lay in the family's
                              biological history, and he began more extensive research designed to
                              show that a predisposition towards pauperism was heritable. Beginning
                              with Francis Galton's study of hereditary genius in 
                                   England
                               and Richard Dugdale's study of pauperism and
                              criminality in the "Jukes" family of 
                                   15Ibid., 50; Oscar McCulloch Diary,
                                        June 3, 1877, box 1, Oscar C. McCulloch Papers.
                                   
                                        16Oscar McCulloch Diary, January 18,
                                        1878, box 1, Oscar C. McCulloch Papers. For more on the
                                        Ishmael family history, see Hugo P Leaming, "The
                                        Ben Ishmael Tribe: A Fugitive 'Nation' of
                                        the Old Northwest," The Ethnic
                                             Frontier: Essays in the History of Group Survival in 
                                                  Chicago
                                              and the Midwest, eds. Melvin
                                        G. Holli and Peter d'A. Jones (
                                             Grand Rapids
                                        ,
                                             Mich.
                                        , 1977), 97-141.
                              
                              
                                    Family Chart of the Tribe of Ishmael (detail),
                                        1888 McCulloch traced several generations of the family
                                        that became his model of the dangers of pauperism
                                        Indiana Historical Society Family Service Association
                                        Collection
                              
                               upstate 
                                   New
                                        York
                              , researchers in late nineteenth-century 
                                   America
                               turned to genealogy for evidence that antisocial behavior
                              had a biological origin.17 Aware of both
                              men's work, from 1878 to 1889 McCulloch traced the
                              connections of 1,789 members of the Ishmael tribe in 35 families,
                              starting from their arrival in 
                                   Indiana
                               in 1840. In addition, he studied 350 other families
                              consisting of 6,000 individuals.18 Among the
                              earliest such research conducted in 
                                   America
                              , his work graphically illustrated the generations of
                              Ishmaelites living on poor relief, seemingly demonstrating the
                              heritability of pauperism.

                         McCulloch's diaries reveal a man of diverse intellectual
                              interests, who read and wrote commentaries on many of the most
                              prominent late nineteenth-century treatises in biology, sociology, and
                                   anthropology.19 Much of the fear and
                              pessimism associated with pauperism in the late 1800s rested on a
                              particular analysis of how heredity and environment shaped a
                              person's development, an analysis found in
                              McCulloch's writing about the Ishmael tribe.20 Like most scientifically minded observers of his time,
                              he thought of pauperism as a biological predisposition passed on from
                              parents to children. This disposition might or might not 
                                   17For examples of contemporary family
                                        studies, see Nicole Hahn Rafter, ed., White
                                             Trash: The Eugenic Family Studies, 1877-1919 (
                                             Boston
                                        , 1988).
                                   18"Condensed Reports of the
                                        COS the IBS and the Children's Board of
                                        Guardians.1889-1890," (
                                             Indianapolis
                                        , 1890), BV1178, Family Service Association of
                                        Indianapolis Records, 1879-1971, collection # M 0102
                                        (Indiana Historical Society, 
                                             Indianapolis
                                        ); Year Book of Charities, 1890-
                                             1891 (
                                             Indianapolis
                                        , 1892), back cover page.
                                   19See, for example, entries for January
                                        10, 17, 18, 24, 25, February 7, April 5, 24, May 31, June
                                        15, 18, 19, July 3, and September 26, 1877, Oscar McCulloch
                                        Diary, box 1, Oscar C. McCulloch Papers.
                                   20For more on hereditarian attitudes
                                        towards the poor and other social dependants, see Hamilton
                                        Cravens, The Triumph of Evolution: The
                                             Heredity-Environment Controversy, 1900-1941 (
                                             Baltimore
                                        , 
                                             Md.
                                        , 1988); Evolution and Eugenics in
                                             American Literature and Culture, 1880-1940: Essays on
                                             Ideological Conflict and Complicity, eds. Lois A.
                                        Cuddy and Claire M. Roch (
                                             London
                                        , 2003); Victor Hilts, "Obeying the
                                        Laws of Hereditary Descent: Phrenological Views on
                                        Inheritance and Eugenics," Journal of
                                             the History of the Behavioral Sciences, 18
                                        (January 1982), 62-77; Matthew Frye Jacobson, Barbarian Virtues: The 
                                                  United States
                                              Encounters Foreign Peoples at Home and
                                             Abroad, 1876-1917 (
                                             New York
                                        , 2000); Daniel Kevles, In The Name
                                             of Eugenics: Genetics and the Uses of Human
                                             Heredity (
                                             Cambridge
                                        , 
                                             Mass.
                                        , 1985); Wendy Kline, Building a
                                             Better Race: Gender, Sexuality, and Eugenics from the
                                             Turn of the Century to the Baby Boom (
                                             Berkeley
                                        ,
                                              Cal.
                                        , 2001); Edward Larson, Sex, Race,
                                             and Science: Eugenics in the Deep South (
                                             Baltimore
                                         , 
                                             Md.
                                        , 1995); Diane Paul, Controlling
                                             Human Heredity: 1865 to the Present (
                                             New Jersey
                                        , 1995); Nicole Hahn Rafter, Creating Born Criminals (
                                             Urbana
                                        , 
                                             Ill.
                                        , 1997); Charles Rosenberg, "The Bitter
                                        Fruit: Heredity, Disease, and Social Thought," No Other Gods: On Science and American Social
                                             Thought (
                                             Baltimore
                                        , 
                                             Md.
                                        , 1976).
                              
                              be activated, depending on the
                              environmental influences that surrounded a child. In other words, a
                              window existed in which a good environment might overcome the effects
                              of bad heredity. If a child of paupers passed through her first few
                              years without learning the willful idleness and the unclean lifestyle
                              popularly associated with pauperism, she might grow up without that
                              tendency being activated. However, in the absence of early
                              environmental intervention to counteract the tendency, heredity became
                              an irresistible force.

                          This understanding of the interplay of environment and heredity upon
                              the pauper fit well with McCulloch's larger synthesis of
                              science and religion. Although he held great hope for human
                              improvement and progress through personal and environmental reform,
                              McCulloch also repeatedly warned in his sermons and diaries that
                              God's laws were unforgiving to those who violated them. In a
                              diary entry from 1877, for instance, he explained that "death
                              according to nature ought to be at the end of a full life and as
                              painless as birth. That it is not, is due to the disobedience of
                              natural laws." While such laws existed "for
                              good" and "to bring about a habitable
                              world," they served the collective good "and did not
                              stop to consider ignorance or weakness. ... They make no mistakes and
                              forgive none."21

                         His research into the "Tribe of Ishmael" convinced
                              McCulloch that he possessed scientific proof of the looming disaster
                              of hereditary pauperism. The work also made him a star among national
                              charity reformers and arguably the most prominent private citizen in 
                                   Indianapolis
                               during the 1880s. McCulloch came to national attention
                              with an address he delivered to the 1880 session of the preeminent
                              national body for social scientists and social reformers, the National
                              Conference of Charities and Correction. There McCulloch used his
                              initial research into the Ishmael tribe as proof that pauperism was a
                              degenerative condition passed from parents to offspring, activated by
                              a poor environment. If a child with a hereditary predisposition to
                              pauperism grew up in a family of paupers, her predisposition would be
                              activated and she would descend into a lazy, mendacious lifestyle. The
                              offspring of such a person 
                                   21Oscar C. McCulloch Diary, January 7,
                                        1877, box 1, Oscar C. McCulloch Papers. McCulloch's
                                        statements closely resemble phrenology, popular in 
                                             America
                                         a generation earlier. McCulloch cited the work
                                        of British phrenologist George Combe in his Tribe of Ishmael
                                        paper, but there is no other evidence to indicate an abiding
                                        interest in the subject. See Hilts, "Obeying the
                                        Laws of Hereditary Descent," 62-77.
                              
                              would have even less hope of
                              escaping the pull of heredity. Hostages to their appetites, paupers
                              would then breed armies of mendicants, who would say or do anything to
                              acquire the charitable relief necessary to avoid working. McCulloch
                              concluded that charitable and public relief must be reformed in order
                              to guarantee that the deceitful paupers were identified and denied
                              relief, and he endorsed the removal of young children from pauper
                              families in order to prevent their predisposition from activating.

                         McCulloch spared no rhetorical expense in arguing for a hereditary basis
                              to pauperism. Citing Ray Lancaster, a British biologist popular among
                              leaders of the scientific charity movement, McCulloch declared that
                              "[t]he law of degeneration is as active as that of
                              gravitation"-and just as universal.22 In
                              a comparison that became famous within the movement, McCulloch
                              announced that the pauper had an analog in the biological kingdom:
                              parasitic crustaceans which "fasten themselves to a hermit
                              crab and live on the juices of his body; their legs drop off, they
                              lose their original form" due to a life of ease. To make sure
                              no one missed the comparison between parasites and paupers, McCulloch
                              pronounced that [n]o social student will
                                   question the existence of such a law of degeneration in society,
                                   or has failed to see such degraded forms of life. He sees the
                                   social parasite, the pauper in whom the instinct of self-help has
                                   disappeared. He sees the children, under the same law, becoming
                                   like their parents; and all this he is powerless to help.23 His own efforts to help raise the
                              Ishmaelites to independence had failed because, he claimed,
                              "they are a decaying stock; they can no longer live
                              self-dependent." Like the parasite, their sense of self-help
                              had disappeared, along with "all the organs and powers that
                              belong to free life."24
                              
                                   22McCulloch, "Associated
                                        Charities," 122-35.
                                   23Ibid., 125.
                                   24Oscar McCulloch, "The Tribe
                                        of Ishmael: diagram, accompanying paper read before the
                                        National Conference of Charities at 
                                             Buffalo
                                        , July 5-11, 1888," (
                                             Indianapolis
                                        , 1891); "The Tribe of Ishmael: A Study
                                        of Social Degradation," in Isabel C. Barrows, ed.,
                                             Proceedings of the National Conference of
                                             Charities and Correction (
                                             Boston
                                        , 1888), 154-59.
                              
                              The analogy circulated throughout
                              the scientific charity movement. University of Chicago sociologist and
                              scientific charity enthusiast Charles Henderson, for instance,
                              repeated the comparison and its lessons in detail in the introductory
                              chapter of his 1893 college textbook, An Introduction to
                                   the Study of the Dependent, Defective and Delinquent
                                   Classes.25
                         
                    
                    
                         CHARITY ORGANIZATION SOCIETIES AND "ARMIES OF
                              VICE"

                         The theory of the hereditary pauper had real consequences for how
                              scientific charity reformers approached the problem of poverty. The
                              theory taught that the pauper class was biologically and socially
                              distinct from the ordinary, "worthy" poor, and
                              therefore should not be dealt with in the same way. While the worthy
                              poor might be set back on the path to independence through carefully
                              administered relief, giving charity to a pauper only sustained his
                              biologically ingrained laziness, enabling him to father the next
                              generation of paupers. His depravity necessitated a new type of
                              charitable giving, not motivated by sympathy but based on objective,
                              scientific investigation of the conditions of poverty. Scientific
                              charity aimed to see through the pauper's dissembling, to
                              identify him and to disqualify him from receiving any charitable
                              relief. It is no overstatement to say that the crux of charitable
                              reform in the Gilded Age rested on efforts to distinguish the common,
                              worthy poor from the duplicitous and degenerate paupers.

                         From 1877 through the early 1890s, scientific charity reformers
                              established Charity Organization Societies in over one hundred
                              American cities in the hope of distinguishing cases of real need from
                              cases of pauperism by carefully investigating every request for
                              charitable assistance. Leaders envisioned a COS in each city acting as
                              an administrative hub that collected information from every charitable
                              and public institution on all persons who had requested relief. The
                              COS would send out its volunteer investigators, known as
                              "friendly visitors," to inspect the merit of an
                              applicant's request for relief, collect data on the
                              "true causes" of the person's poverty, and
                              act as a moral exemplar to train the poor in proper middle-class
                              virtues. If the visitor deemed the applicant 
                                   25Charles Richmond Henderson, An Introduction to the Study of the Dependent,
                                             Defective and Delinquent Classes (
                                             Boston
                                        , 1893), 5.
                              
                              morally worthy and truly in want,
                              the COS notified the appropriate cooperating charity of what relief
                              should be given. If the applicant was deemed an unworthy pauper, the
                              COS asked all cooperating charities to refrain from assisting. The COS
                              kept a file on every applicant, so as to keep track of case histories,
                              to chart progress or signs of pauperism, and to prevent duplicate
                              giving amongst charities. The COS aimed to end all public welfare and
                              all indiscriminately given private relief and to make a willingness to
                              work the first condition for receiving any charity.

                         While COS leaders framed their work as a return to the individual
                              connection between private giver and recipient, in practice their work
                              was more novel than traditional. They sought close working ties with
                              civic leaders, business executives, and government officials, and
                              sometimes they appropriated functions of local government and
                              business. Societies in 
                                   Indianapolis
                               and elsewhere set up savings and loan programs for the
                              working poor and won the right to remove children from families
                              declared to be habitual paupers, all the while claiming that their
                              investigations would reveal scientific laws governing pauperism.

                         The COS that McCulloch founded in 
                                   Indianapolis
                               ranked among the earliest, longest lasting, most
                              comprehensive, and nationally most significant of all the societies.
                              In 1878, the governing board of the Indianapolis Benevolent Society
                              narrowly avoided disbanding when its members voted McCulloch their new
                              president. By the end of 1879, McCulloch concluded that IBS officials
                              could not manage the tasks of registering and investigating relief
                              applicants while simultaneously distributing relief to the worthy
                              poor, and he took steps to establish a charity society that would
                              shoulder those responsibilities. With support from Mayor John Caven,
                              IBS member Benjamin Harrison, future 
                                   U.S.
                               Attorney General William Henry Harrison Miller, and most
                              of the city's professionals, McCulloch established the 
                                   Indianapolis
                               COS in December 1879. In 
                                   Indiana
                               alone, COSs soon followed in at least ten other cities
                              and towns.26

                         In 
                                   Indianapolis
                               and most other cities, popular perception held that
                              Charity Organization Societies were designed to discourage all
                              charitable giving. Critics soon renamed the COS the
                              "SSB" - the "Society for the Suppression of
                                   Benevolence."27 Charity organizers
                              struggled to 
                                   26Weeks, Oscar Carleton
                                             McCulloch, 173; Phillips, 
                                                  Indiana
                                              in Transition, 481-85; Oscar
                                        McCulloch Diary, January 9, 16, 1879, box 1, Oscar C.
                                        McCulloch Papers.
                                   27Indianapolis
                                             Sentinel, November 14, 1885.
                              
                              explain the importance they
                              attached to distinguishing the biologically hopeless and morally lax
                              pauper from the noble and potentially redeemable poor. Their demand
                              that no aid be given to anyone suspected of being a pauper did little
                              to rebut their tight-handed reputation. McCulloch declared in the
                              society's first public statement: The prevention of pauperism is as important as the relief of
                                   poverty. While the poor we will always have with us, it is our
                                   fault and our disgrace if we have the pauper. ... He hangs upon
                                   the city, sucking thence his sustenance and giving nothing back.
                                   .. He propagates children who are after his kind, recruiting
                                   armies of vice. . . . It is folly to dole out charity, year after
                                   year, without making an effort to cut off the source of this
                                   deep, black river of pauperism. The first thing necessary in the
                                   administration of charity is to know who are the poor and who are
                                   the paupers.28 The statement clearly
                              indicates that at this time, McCulloch believed that pauperism was so
                              strongly rooted in a person's biology that it could not be
                              cured, once activated. Charity should instead concentrate on
                              prevention: preventing the pauper from receiving charity and
                              preventing him either from having children or from raising his
                              existing offspring.

                         Prevention, in turn, meant investigation, and the COS quickly developed
                              arrangements with most of the city's existing charities to
                              scrutinize the moral, social, and economic circumstances of every poor
                              person who requested relief. The COS sent out its volunteer
                              "friendly visitors" to meet with the applicants, to
                              ascertain their situation, to offer advice on matters of good
                              childraising, housekeeping and thrift, and to inform the COS of
                              whether the applicants should be approved for relief from the relevant
                              cooperating charity.

                         Each year the 
                                   Indianapolis
                               COS published the results of its investigations and
                              relief work. McCulloch conducted many of the investiga- 
                                   28Oscar McCulloch, Annual
                                             Public Meeting of the Indianapolis Benevolent
                                             Society, November 30, 1879, p. 1, BV 1178, Family
                                        Service Association of Indianapolis Records.
                              
                              tions on his own in the
                              group's inaugural year but soon gave those duties over to the
                              friendly visitors. According to the annual report for the year
                              spanning November 1, 1883, to October 31, 1884, for instance, the COS
                              received 1,070 applications for aid concerning 3,579 family members.
                              In every case COS committee members determined the
                              "condition" and social status of the applicant, and
                              the cooperating charity -if the applicants were deemed worthy.
                              "Condition" was defined in three categories denoting
                              the applicant's state of need and worthiness: "cases
                              worthy of relief; cases needing work rather than relief; and cases not
                              requiring, unworthy, or not entitled to relief." Of the 1,070
                              cases that year, the 
                                   Indianapolis
                               committee evaluated the applicants as: 
                                   
                                        worthy of relief:
                                        379
                                   
                                   
                                        worthy of work:
                                        314
                                   
                                   
                                        unworthy:
                                        374
                                   
                                   
                                        not classified:
                                        3
                                   
                               Put another way, they judged 65 percent as worthy poor and 35
                              percent as unworthy paupers.29

                         The COS further divided these three categories to identify different
                              causes of poverty. For instance, "worthy of relief"
                              included four subcategories of those beset by circumstances beyond
                              their control: orphans with no living parents or one parent unable to
                              support, the aged, the incurable (presumably referring to a
                              permanently disabling condition), and those incapacitated by temporary
                              illness or accident. In the 1883 - 1884 report, the 379 cases worthy
                              of relief included only 1 case listed as an orphan and 6 as incurable.
                              Of the remaining 372 cases, 50 were aged and 322 had temporarily
                              fallen ill or experienced an accident. As the unknown author of the
                              report put it, "Such belong to the poor whom it is a
                              privilege to help."30

                          The 374 cases in class three - those not requiring, not entitled to, or
                              unworthy of relief - fell into eight subcategories: 
                                   29In the first fifteen years of the
                                        scientific charity movement, its proponents considered these
                                        terms to be all - encompassing and unproblematic, and they
                                        were found in one form or another across 
                                             America
                                        . Annual Reports of the
                                             Indianapolis Benevolent Society and Charity
                                             Organization Society, 
                                                  Indianapolis
                                             , 
                                                  Ind.
                                             , 1883-1884 ([
                                             Indianapolis
                                        ], 1884), 24.
                                   30Ibid., 26.
                              
                              
                              
                                   Not requiring relief
                                   Owning property
                                   Having relatives able to support
                                   Shiftless or improvident, Hopelessly so
                                   Vicious, Hopelessly so
                                   Prefer to live on alms
                                   Tramps
                                   Confirmed Inebriates
                               The first three subcategories were determinations of an
                              individual's means and the last five were judgments of
                              character. Collectively, 115 of the 374 cases fell into the first
                              three subcategories and the remaining 259 into the other five. From
                              another perspective, the COS denied relief, on the grounds of poor
                              character, to 24 percent of all cases that year: 259 out of 1,070.31Other annual reports from the period all show
                              similar proportions.

                         COS statistics also offer an insight into the types of people who
                              applied for relief. For the 1883-1884 year, the COS grouped cases into
                              ten social states: 
                                   Families with both parents living
                                   Widows
                                   Widowers
                                   Divorced wives
                                   Deserted wives
                                   Deserted husbands
                                   Single Men
                                   Single women, with illegitimate children
                                   Other single women
                                   Orphans
                               Thirty-nine percent of all cases (419) involved families,
                              followed by wid- ows (24 percent or 256), deserted wives (14 percent
                              or 153), and single men (13 percent or 141). Only four cases dealt
                              with orphans, and the deserted - husband category consisted of one
                              lonely soul.32

                         
                              31Ibid., 25.
                              32Ibid., 24-26.
                         
                    
                    
                    
                         THE CONVERSION OF REV. MCCULLOCH
                         When charity reformers divided applicants into distinct categories of
                              worthy poor and unworthy paupers, they passed not only a moral
                              judgment but a biological one as well - the unworthy were biological
                              degenerates. The scientific charity movement's interpretation
                              of pauperism, however, granted the significance of environmental
                              factors in the onset or prevention of this biological predisposition.
                              It therefore allowed more potential than commonly appreciated for
                              divergent interpretations about the true role of heredity in
                              poverty.

                         Over the 1880s McCulloch began to rethink the relative influence of
                              biology in creating paupers, and thereby also reconsidered what it
                              meant to be unworthy. This rethinking of biology, morality, and
                              poverty came about as a facet of a larger political awakening that
                              McCulloch underwent in 1885 and 1886. By the end of 1886, his interest
                              was moving away from biological pauperism and gravitating towards the
                              environmental factors that brought about chronic and intergenerational
                              poverty. McCulloch's thinking evolved to the point where he
                              abandoned his concern for the pauper almost entirely, focusing instead
                              on systemic economic and social causes of poverty that required
                              systematic, progressive reform, but that held promise for permanently
                              ending all poverty. Pauperism became, for McCulloch, a remedial
                              condition, a misdiagnosis of poverty that was due not to bad biology,
                              but to larger social and economic factors. While this redefinition of
                              pauperism never became a mainstream position in American thought, it
                              did signal the beginning of the end of the "pauper"
                              as a distinct moral and biological category used by charity reformers
                              and students of the poverty problem. McCulloch became the first
                              prominent member of the scientific charity movement to adopt this
                              view; he would not be the last. By the early 1900s the scientific
                              charity movement had recast its work away from detecting and punishing
                              paupers, in favor of providing adequate relief to the poor.

                         Witnessing the rise of labor unrest in the mid-1880s, both within 
                                   Indianapolis
                               and nationwide, McCulloch began to issue calls for
                              economic and social justice for all of the poor. In 
                                   Indianapolis
                              , the township trustee reported at the end of January 1886
                              that the last month had seen more applications for aid than any month
                              in his four years in office. He blamed "dull times, bad
                              health among the poor, and the growth of the chronic pauper
                                   class."33 Nationally, conflicts
                              between labor and 
                                   
                                        33The Public's Poor,"
                                             Indianapolis News, January 25,
                                        1886.
                              
                              management grew more frequent,
                              massive, and violent across 1885 and into 1886. All of the 
                                   Indianapolis
                               newspapers gave detailed and regular attention to the
                              Knights of Labor, the movement for an eight-hour work day, and
                              especially the strikes against the Gould railroad lines, centered in 
                                   St.
                                        Louis
                              . On April 10, 1886, the papers headlined reports that
                              deputy sheriffs in 
                                   East St. Louis
                               had killed six innocent bystanders in the midst of a
                              strike - related riot. The Democratic Journal
                              editorialized that the strikers, not the sheriffs, were to blame.34 The town's Republican newspaper gave
                              no greater sympathy to strikers, and just barely tolerated the
                              eight-hour movement.

                         McCulloch closely followed these developments, and in March 1886 he
                              preached his first sermon in favor of the unions, winning the approval
                              of 
                                   Indianapolis's
                               pro-labor newspaper, as well as the local Socialist
                                   party.35 Although he had delivered sermons in 
                                   Sheboygan
                               concerning the rise of labor unions, riots, and
                              communism, at that time he had explained them as social evils that
                              came about from the abuse of workingmen, growing levels of economic
                              inequality, and the lack of assimilation of immigrant labor. As Weeks
                              notes, "this viewpoint toward the laboring classes . . .
                              changed radically as he studied laboring conditions and the relation
                              of capital to labor."36

                         McCulloch's new perspective on labor and the poor became even
                              clearer in the autumn of 1886. On Sunday, September 19, between 3,000
                              and 10,000 people representing all of 
                                   Indianapolis's
                               unions gathered for a parade organized by the Knights of
                              Labor. The Journal reported that thousands more
                              thronged the streets along the route, "to witness the largest
                              procession of organized labor ever seen in 
                                   Indianapolis
                              ." The parade concluded at the Exposition
                              Grounds, where attendees heard speeches, danced, and played baseball.
                              On Monday, the Journal characterized the public
                              response as "favorable."37
                              Similarly, the News reported that the event had been
                              orderly, with no liquor sold on or near the grounds and "no
                              disturbances nor quarrels of any kind." This happy 
                                   
                                        34Indianapolis
                                        Journal, April 10, 1886.
                                   35"The Industrial
                                        Situation" Indianapolis News,
                                        March 22, 1886; "Pulpit Themes Yesterday- The
                                        Industrial Situation," Indianapolis
                                             Journal, March 22, 1886; article clipping in Oscar
                                        McCulloch Diary, January 3, 1886, box 3, Oscar C. McCulloch
                                        Papers.
                                   36Weeks, Oscar Carleton
                                             McCulloch, 34.
                                   37"Labor's Day of
                                        Display," Indianapolis Journal,
                                        September 20, 1886.
                              
                              state, said the News, "can be attributed to the vigilance of the
                                   management.""38

                         The church sermons delivered by 
                                   Indianapolis's
                               ministers the following Sunday, however, described the
                              parade as an inexcusable desecration of the Sabbath and a violation of
                              the rights of others to worship undisturbed. Such controversies over
                              observance of the Sabbath were not unusual, and the Rev. J. Albert
                              Rondthaler of the Tabernacle Presbyterian Church proclaimed that all
                              Christians "must keenly feel the disgrace put upon the
                              city." The Revs. James McLeod, R. V. Hunter, and E. A.
                              Bradley likewise weighed in with a condemnation - Bradley
                              unequivocally and McLeod with moderation.39

                         McCulloch addressed the condemnations in his next sermon. In defense of
                              the parade, he reminded his listeners that the Knights had aimed to
                              hold the festivities on a Monday but could not secure the grounds.
                              Since the factories would not accommodate any other day, Sunday
                              remained as the only possible choice. Furthermore, the parade had been
                              scheduled to conclude before church services began, but rain pushed
                              back the starting time. McCulloch then defended both the
                              workers' overall conduct and their theological right to hold
                              the event on a Sunday.40 His words inspired the
                              Central Labor Union to offer him a formal vote of thanks and to attend
                              his October 10 sermon as a body. The Sentinel
                              remarked that "the workingmen owe it to themselves and to the
                              cause of labor to sustain Mr. McCulloch in his work, as the advocacy
                              of humanity's cause is sure to gain for him the ill-will of
                              other ministers."41 Indeed, McCulloch
                              received much criticism for his defense of the Knights'
                              parade, but a stronger expression of his new views, and a larger dose
                              of attendant controversy, lay ahead when McCulloch weighed in on the
                              trial of the Haymarket anarchists.

                         The labor demonstration held in 
                                   Chicago's
                               Haymarket district on May 3, 1886, had turned into a riot
                              when police fired into a crowd of 
                                   38"The Labor
                                        Demonstration," Indianapolis
                                        News, September 20, 1886.
                                   39"Yesterday's
                                        Pulpit," Indianapolis News,
                                        September 27, 1886; "How to Spend Sunday,"
                                             Indianapolis Sentinel, September 27,
                                        1886.
                                   40Ibid.; "Day Made for
                                        Man," Indianapolis Journal,
                                        September 27, 1886.
                                   41Indianapolis
                                             Sentinel, September 27, 1886. Also see the note of
                                        thanks issued by the Central Trade Union, found in Oscar
                                        McCulloch Diary, October 1, 1886, box 3, Oscar C. McCulloch
                                        Papers. 
                              
                              battling strikers and
                              strikebreakers, killing four. The next day, a peaceful, city -
                              authorized gathering turned into a calamity when, as a riot squad
                              began forcefully dispersing the crowd, someone threw a bomb into the
                              scrum. The explosion killed a policeman, and police responded by
                              firing into the crowd, injuring at least one hundred spectators and
                              some of their fellow officers. Six more policemen, and an uncounted
                              number of civilians, died in the aftermath. Newspapers reported that
                              foreign anarchists were responsible for the bombing.

                          The percussive force of the bomb, slight even by the standards of the
                              1880s, deeply shook many Americans, including McCulloch. Three days
                              later, he wrote in his diary that "the one thought on my mind
                              is the Labor Trouble. I wish that I could speak on that and nothing
                              else. When I read of the anarchists in 
                                   Chicago
                               I said 'They know not what they do.'
                              The law and order of society must be preserved, but they have suffered
                              much." While most Americans demanded swift justice, McCulloch
                              speculated about the possible biographies of the alleged
                              bomb-throwers. "What was their history, first at
                              home?" he asked, and "What had they
                              suffered?" McCulloch wrote that the immigrants likely came to 
                                   America
                               with the feeling of hope and "with the idea of
                              liberty." Imagining how they must have felt upon waking up to
                              their impoverished situation, McCulloch empathized, calling the
                              immigrant radicals "frankensteins of modern
                                   society."42

                         Considering the "hang-them-all" mentality that
                              pervaded 
                                   Indianapolis
                              , McCulloch wisely kept his thoughts to himself for six
                              months. Not until his post-Thanksgiving Sunday sermon did he speak
                              out, arguing that the death sentences recently given the anarchists
                              were unjust and that they deserved a new trial.43
                              The Journal, News, and Sentinel all carried McCulloch's sermons,
                              editorials, and COS announcements regularly, and all chose not to
                              publish the text of this sermon. McCulloch's editorial
                              response to an article appearing in the Monday morning edition of the
                                   Journal represents his views: I have a horror of all methods of violence. I
                                   believe in obedience to law and in enforcement of law. I have no
                                   sympathy with the 
                                        42Oscar McCulloch Diary, May 7,
                                             1886, box 3, Oscar C. McCulloch Papers.
                                        43McCulloch had expressed his
                                             dislike of the death penalty as early as 1879. Weeks,
                                             "Religion and Social Work,"
                                             50.
                                   
                                   .. .methods employed by these
                                   men. I feel that freedom of speech has its limits. I believe that
                                   these men should be punished for the consequences of their words,
                                   even if they were not directly concerned in throwing the bomb.
                                   But a nation is great by reason of its capacity to
                                   forgive.
                              So I say of these men, "They know
                                   not what they do." They are misguided men. They are in
                                   the midst of human sorrows and sufferings. They see hundreds of
                                   men out of work. They hear the cry of many thousand children who
                                   work in the mills, factories and foundries of 
                                        Chicago
                                   . They see young girls who work without wages
                                   sufficient for life. They see women sewing for thirty cents a
                                   day. They see machinery displace men who then go about asking
                                   vainly for work. They see all this and then denounce. They
                                   denounce the rich without distinguishing good from bad. They
                                   denounce the factories and mills, the system, the civilization.
                                   They cry "Hang them! Burn them!" They cannot
                                   under- stand the law of political economy.44

                         The Journal's editorial reply condemned
                              McCulloch's remarks, anarchists, and immigrants in general.
                              Conceding the minister's right to defend the "bloody
                              wretches," the editor then asserted that there was no such
                              right "to use a pulpit of a leading and intelligent church in
                              which to utter unmitigated hogwash." He described
                              McCulloch's quotation of Jesus's words on the cross
                              as "a gratuitous insult to common intelligence" and
                              argued that rationalizing the bombing was "to talk
                              unadulterated trash, which would be simply foolish were it not
                              dangerous in the mouth of a man of standing and influence."
                              The editor saved his strongest venom for the anarchists and
                              immigrants. McCulloch preached "the gospel of gush"
                              and ignored the reality of radical 
                                   44"Mr. M'Culloch and
                                        the Anarchists," Indianapolis
                                             Journal, undated clipping found in Oscar McCulloch
                                        Diary, November 30, 1886, box 3, Oscar C. McCulloch Papers.
                                        While McCulloch rarely addressed matters of race in his
                                        diary and even less frequently in public, during this time
                                        he considered the plight of African Americans and
                                        immigrants, with similar conclusions. In a tantalizingly
                                        brief diary entry, he wondered of African Americans,
                                        "What is the future? Peace on earth! Yes but first
                                        a sword. First Discerning of rights, dissension, strife,
                                        fighting for right or their justice which is peace." Hall, "Oscar McCulloch
                                        and Indiana Eugenics," 228, quoting Oscar McCulloch
                                        Diary, December 24, 1885, box 3, Oscar C. McCulloch
                                        Papers.
                              
                              immigrants. "The whole lot
                              of them," said the Journal, "are
                              imported scoundrels, naturally at war with civilized society; men who
                              have never done an honest day's work in their lives, but who
                              are parasites and leeches by nature and preference. They are the scum
                              ... of the countries they came from."45
                              The criticisms seem to have hurt McCulloch's position in the
                              community. In a diary entry from early December, he wrote that
                              "it was reported that my church was broken up."46 The controversy, followed by an extended bout
                              of illness, kept McCulloch from engaging in such heated public
                              controversies in the future.

                    
                    
                         "I SEE NO TERRIBLE ARMY"

                          By 1886 McCulloch had honed a social critique of the labor question and
                              its relationship to poverty. As his interest in these issues grew over
                              the next six years, McCulloch reevaluated his understanding of
                              scientific charity and pauperism. Foreshadowing the national
                              scientific charity movement's transformation at the start of
                              the twentieth century, McCulloch came to argue that the people he had
                              once identified as being biologically degenerate and irredeemable
                              paupers were, in fact, treatable like the ordinary, worthy poor. Like
                              the labor unionists and immigrants who turned to social disruption and
                              even violence, the pauper's woeful condition was also a
                              symptom of greater social problems that could be alleviated or even
                              abolished through concerted social reform. While no part of this
                              revised interpretation threatened the paternalistic assumption that
                              the middle class knew best how to aid those in need, it did suggest
                              different means for reaching that goal. For instance, in a committee
                              report to the NCCC's 1889 session, McCulloch presented a
                              paper that summarized a decade of progress and restated "the
                              principles which underlie . . . scientific charity." In 1880,
                              McCulloch had emphasized the work of detecting paupers, elevating the
                              morality of the poor, and restricting charitable relief. Now, however,
                              he also called for "the reform of abuses in existing laws,
                              the securing of justice, and the modification of conditions which make
                              for poverty and crime."47 A broader
                              understanding of how and why charity groups operated also led
                              McCulloch 
                                   45"Mr. M'Culloch and the
                                        Anarchists," Indianapolis
                                        Journal, undated clipping.
                                   46Oscar McCulloch Diary, December 6,
                                        1886, box 3, Oscar C. McCulloch Papers.
                                   47Oscar C. McCulloch, "Report
                                        of the Standing Committee," Isabel C. Barrows, ed.,
                                             Proceedings of the National Conference of
                                             Charities and Correction (
                                             Boston
                                        , 1889), 11.
                              
                              and some other reformers to
                              consider a revised definition of "organization." The
                              term, at the centerpiece of the scientific charity movement from its
                              inception and indeed of the very term "Charity Organization
                              Society," had referred to the coordination of relief between
                              previously distinct private charities. Scientific charity leaders, led
                              by McCulloch, now began to think of organization more broadly, so that
                              it also included the activity of both private and public institutions
                              toward improving social conditions. The Indiana Board of State
                              Charities, founded in 1889 and later described as the
                              "brainchild" of McCulloch, reflects this change.48

                         In 
                                   Indianapolis
                              , the turn away from identifying and suppressing pauperism
                              in favor of concerted social reform can be seen in the course
                              McCulloch charted for the COS, and in his sermons. Among its
                              charitable projects, the Indianapolis COS sponsored a savings and
                              loan, designed to provide new social services to the poor. Established
                              in March 1887 at McCulloch's behest, the Indianapolis Dime
                              Savings and Loan Society represented one of the COS's earlier
                              side-projects. According to a flier announcing the society's
                              first meeting, "much of the suffering of the poor is due to a
                              lack of habit of saving small amounts, and to a lack of opportunity
                              for laying by small amounts weekly."49
                              Contributing to that lack of opportunity, said the flier, the
                              city's deficit of savings institutions gave small wage
                              earners no opportunity to learn the habits and virtue of thriftiness,
                              while high fuel prices ate into what little income they did
                              possess.

                         The Indianapolis COS intended for its savings and loan to function more
                              as a community resource for the poor than as a normal bank. To help
                              inculcate the habit of thriftiness, the society sold $25 shares, to be
                              bought incrementally through small dues. Collectors inspired, or
                              perhaps enforced, the saving habit by calling on members at their
                              homes for their ten-cent dues each week of summer, "when work
                              is more plentiful," and permitting withdrawals only during
                              the winter. By one measure at least, these visitations eventually
                              eclipsed the number of visitations conducted each year by the COS. The
                              savings and loan additionally sold 
                                   48Milton Gaither, "The Rise
                                        and Fall of a Pedagogical Empire: The Board of State
                                        Charities and the 
                                             Indiana
                                         Philosophy of Giving," Indiana Magazine of History, 96 (December 2000),
                                        336-46.
                                   49Indianapolis Charity Organization
                                        Society, "Dime Savings and Loan Society,"
                                        found in Oscar McCulloch Diary, 1887, box 4, Oscar C.
                                        McCulloch Papers.
                              
                              
                              
                                   Oscar McCulloch, c. 1890 In the last years
                                        of his life, McCulloch's sermons reflected distinct changes
                                        in his view of poverty and the poor Oscar C. McCulloch,
                                        The Open Door: Sermons and Prayers (
                                             Indianapolis
                                        , 1892)
                               coal and other goods that the COS had purchased at bulk
                              rates to its members.50

                         The work of the savings and loan must be considered within the larger
                              context of McCulloch and the COS reformers' evolving
                              attitudes towards poverty. The emphases on personal savings, and on
                              frugal bulk purchasing, as well as the presence of collectors making
                              weekly calls for the dimes, set comfortably within the moralistic
                              philosophy that characterized the first decade of scientific charity,
                              both nationally and in 
                                   Indianapolis
                              . But the savings and loan's directors also
                              expressed concern 
                                   50"The Charity Organization
                                        Society of 
                                             Indianapolis
                                        : A Brief Report," (
                                             Indianapolis
                                        , 1897), 6.
                              
                              about the usurious interest rates
                              of installment plans and the absence of home associations for the
                              poor, indicating an awareness of larger issues of economic opportunity
                              and justice. A movement concerned primarily with the suppression of
                              the pauper does not create a savings and loan.

                         McCulloch's re-evaluations of pauperism, poverty, and the
                              proper objectives of the scientific charity movement were accompanied
                              by a new analysis of the relationship between biology, religion, and
                              poverty. The Open Door Sermons, a collection of
                              Sunday sermons from 1890 and 1891, the last two years of his life,
                              contain several theological commentaries on the place of poverty in
                              the modern world. Many of these commentaries emphasize his belief in
                              the potential for all to be forgiven and saved, for poverty itself to
                              be abolished through concerted action, and for the moral necessity of
                              charity projects. In the sermon "Abundant Life," for
                              instance, McCulloch expresses a new understanding of the plight of 
                                   Indianapolis's
                               poor: "Most of them live so close to the line of
                              actual want that a week out of work, or a month's sickness,
                              brings hunger and cold, or debt." He also evinces a new
                              optimism, going on to say that "to all these a fuller,
                              happier life is possible. Nature is kind."51 The use of the word "all" and the
                              omission of any distinctions between poverty and pauperism are
                              noticeable. Now, when McCulloch looks at the poor he can see that
                              "[1]ying dormant in these souls are capacities for art,
                              music, intelligence, skill, success." The same point is
                              expressed most explicitly in "The Ideal in Man,"
                              where McCulloch argues that an "Ideal Human" exists
                              in all souls. He cites an experiment by a 
                                   New York
                                        City
                               newspaper that chose "a chance tramp"
                              from the streets and offered him "a new suit of clothes, a
                              bath, and a week's board in a good hotel." This man,
                              whom McCulloch once would have classed as an irredeemable pauper, is
                              now described as having "a new seriousness ... in his face
                              and a new light in his eyes, like the recovery of one who is lost and
                              regained." "Here is a man," McCulloch told
                              his parishioners, "who says he will try to live a better
                              life. I myself think the experiment would be a hopeful
                                   one."52

                         Further evidence of McCulloch's reinterpretation of pauperism
                              comes in his discussion of intemperance. Proponents of the scientific
                              charity movement of the 1870s and 1880s regarded drunkenness among
                                   
                                   51Oscar C. McCulloch, The
                                             Open Door: Sermons and Prayers (
                                             Indianapolis
                                        , 1892), 9.
                                   52Ibid., 158.
                              
                              the poor as indisputable proof that
                              such individuals were unworthy, degenerate paupers. Since the worthy
                              poor would not dissipate their body or savings with drink, drunkenness
                              must be a sign of the moral and biological failings of a pauper. In
                              his sermon "The Mission of the Son of Man," however,
                              McCulloch turns that analysis on its ear, arguing that "the
                              causes of intemperance are other than the individual will,"
                              and that "the greatest cause of intemperance is poverty,
                              absolute misery of life."53 His change in
                              perspective led him to see traits like chronic poverty and
                              intemperance as consequences of broader social failings, and, based on
                              that assumption, to gain a new understanding of charity. In
                              "The Discontent of the Fortunate" he explains that
                              charity is changing: "It used to be pity. It is not pity now.
                              It is the equalization of opportunity. The new religion takes the
                              social as well as the individual into its life."54 Elsewhere, in "The New Vow of
                              Poverty," McCulloch exhorts all Christians to hate poverty
                              and work to end it, arguing that the environmental effect of poverty
                              "starves life" and soul.55

                         In these late sermons, we see McCulloch describing all poor people as
                              worthy and capable of redemption, given the proper social
                              organization. But what of the biological determinism by which he had
                              defined the pauper class? In his sermon "The Law of Mutual
                              Aid," McCulloch rejects the scientific premises of his
                              "Tribe of Ishmael" work in favor of a new
                              interpretation of biology. Here he seeks to harmonize Jesus's
                              "intense sympathy" and "intuition of
                              love" with recent discoveries "being made known by
                              the sympathetic reading of science."56
                              Human sympathy is the "essential quality of Christ"
                              found in the practice of modern Christianity. The monuments testifying
                              to Christian sympathy are modern facilities "for the
                              protection of the weak . . . the recovery of the lost . . the
                              enlargement of the life of the unsuccessful."57

                         The Christian obligation for the better off to tend to those in need had
                              "encountered a certain obstruction," however, in the
                              face of "what is believed to be the revelation" of
                              Darwinian evolution. McCulloch agreed with the Darwinian belief that a
                              struggle for existence "is nature's chief 
                                   53Ibid., 38.
                                   54Ibid., 58.
                                   55Ibid., 143.
                                   56Ibid., 237.
                                   57Ibid., 238.
                              
                              factor in the progress of the
                              species," and that it pervaded not just nature, but also
                              industry and commerce. If this was the full extent of the law of
                              evolution, he conceded, it would trump the Christian's moral
                              warrant for saving and reforming the weak and for exercising human
                              sympathy through the gift of charity: Our
                                   sympathy becomes a sentiment and a sentimentality, and we are
                                   doing wrong to the nature of things to try to rescue that which
                                   is lost .... If we keep little children alive we are only making
                                   more mouths to feed .... If we take ... those that are unfit for
                                   the struggle of life, we are doing, says this gospel, what nature
                                   is trying to prevent our doing.

                         But McCulloch also believed that a new law coming to light, the law of
                              mutual aid, held implications for Christian charity. He noted that
                              "a Russian zoologist" (presumably Petr Kropotkin)
                              had espoused a mutual-aid interpretation of evolution. The
                              "Anarchist Prince," feted in the literary and
                              scientific circles of 
                                   London
                               where he lived in exile, had recently begun an extended
                              confrontation with Darwin's associate, Thomas Huxley, over
                              the social implications of evolution. In the English monthly magazine
                                   The Nineteenth Century, Kropotkin wrote that
                              his study of animal social behavior suggested to him that the
                              "prime factor in nature" was not the
                              "struggle for existence," as Huxley had claimed, but
                              the "law of mutual aid."58
                              Actions such as combining for mutual defense, protecting the young and
                              the old, and gathering and saving food, resonated with
                              McCulloch's long-standing interest in the ideal of social
                                   cooperation.59 They indicated to him, as they
                              had to Kropotkin, 
                                   58Ibid., 242. See also Thomas Huxley,
                                        "The Struggle for Existence: A Programme,"
                                             The Nineteenth Century, 23 (February
                                        1888), 161-80; Petr Kropotkin, "The Coming Reign of
                                        Plenty," The Nineteenth Century,
                                        23 (June 1888), 817-37; Kropotkin, "Mutual Aid
                                        Among Animals," The Nineteenth
                                             Century, 28 (September 1890), 337-54; and
                                        Kropotkin, Mutual Aid: A Factor in
                                             Evolution (
                                             London
                                        , 1902).
                                   59Other progressives shared McCullochs
                                        admiration of Kropotkin. Kropotkin toured 
                                             America
                                         in 1899 and 1901, visiting Jane
                                        Addams's Hull House and lecturing at the University
                                        of Wisconsin as the guest of progressive economist Richard
                                        Ely. Wisconsin State Journal, April 19,
                                        22, 23, 24, 1901, box 18, folder 1, Richard Ely Papers
                                        (Wisconsin State Historical Society, 
                                             Madison
                                        ).
                              
                              that "the struggle for
                              existence is not as between man and man. . .. so much as between
                              everything and its exterior circumstances."60 McCulloch declared that science now vindicated the
                              "sacred instincts" of compassion and cooperation
                              that the heart had always known to be true. By implication, science
                              also vindicated his changing analysis of scientific charity and
                              poverty. On May 18, 1891, a gravely ill McCulloch penned his final and
                              definitive statement on scientific charity and poverty, "The
                              True Spirit of Charity Organization." The moving prose
                              revealed an almost complete abandonment of his earlier positions
                              regarding biology and pauperism. The man who had compared paupers to
                              parasites and envisioned "armies of vice" now wrote:
                                   I see no terrible army of pauperism, but
                                   a sorrowful crowd of men, women and children. I propose to speak
                                   of the spirit of charity organization. It is not a war against
                                   anybody. It is not an attack against any armed battalions. It is
                                   the spirit of love entering this world with the eye of pity and
                                   the voice of hope. It sees in men and women, despairing,
                                   disfigured as they may be ... simple fragments of humanity. They
                                   show the incompleteness of men, the partial losses of life. It
                                   is, then, simply a question of organization, of the best method
                                   for the restoration of every one. ... Therefore, I say, we look
                                   upon men, women and children, whom we call paupers, or now
                                   distinguish into paupers and poor, pitifully, but hopefully; for
                                   not one but may be brought back by persistent effort.61

                         Two things make this statement extraordinary. First, McCulloch rejected
                              his earlier biological pessimism, which had led him to believe that
                              paupers could not be rehabilitated other than by saving them as small
                              children before a debased environment activated their hereditary
                              predisposition. Second, in changing his assessment of pauperism, he
                              implicitly rejected the biological and social distinctions between the
                              potential pauper, actual pauper, common poor person, and
                              "normal" 
                                   60McCulloch, Open
                                             Door, 242.
                                   61McCulloch, "The True Spirit
                                        of Charity Organization."
                              
                               human being. Whereas much
                              nineteenth- and early twentieth-century American commentary treated
                              the poor as essentially different from nor- mal persons, and paupers
                              as distinct from the poor, McCulloch suggested that the pauper, though
                              presently abnormal, was potentially normal. In doing so, he became one
                              of the first scientific charity advocates to bring all of the poor
                              population within the parameters of normalcy.

                         McCulloch marked the pinnacle of a lifetime's involvement in
                              social reform and science by presiding over the 1891 meeting of the
                              National Conference of Charities and Correction, held that May inside
                              of Plymouth Church. There he proposed a national scientific survey of
                              philanthropy patterned after the recent geodetic survey, and a
                              national register of dependent, defective, and delinquent persons.62 The proposal capped his progression towards
                              treating poverty not as an individual's failure, but as a
                              social problem that required the proper organization of charitable
                              resources and concerted national effort.

                         He died half a year later. McCulloch had long suffered headaches,
                              fatigue, and ill health, when in January 1890 he noticed a tumor in
                              his groin. McCulloch wrote that he wanted to take a year off, but
                              could not find the time. Instead, he and his wife Alice led a
                              three-month tour of European cities for the Plymouth Church Travel
                              Club. While in 
                                   Holland
                               he became seriously ill and returned home immediately,
                              arriving on September 25. He preached once, but was too ill to deliver
                              the funeral address for an old friend two days later. Doctors
                              recommended surgery, but he and his wife declined. In late October his
                              doctor diagnosed McCulloch as suffering from nervous exhaustion. With
                              wrenching detail, Alice chronicled his deterioration in his diary, and
                              at 5:50 in the morning on December 10, McCulloch died at age
                              forty-eight. The doctor diagnosed the illness as "localized
                              tuberculosis," although a historical diagnosis indicates that
                              he had Hodgkin's disease.63
                              
                                   62Oscar McCulloch,
                                        "President's Address: State and National
                                        Registration of the Dependent, The Defective, and the
                                        Delinquent Classes," in Isabel C. Barrows, ed., Proceedings of the National Conference of
                                             Charities and Correction (
                                             Boston
                                        , 1891), 10-19.
                                   63Weeks, Oscar Carleton
                                             McCulloch, 219-20; entries from October 28 to
                                        December 10, 1891, Oscar McCulloch Diary, box 6, Oscar C.
                                        McCulloch Papers. The final entry, written by Alice, reads
                                        "The light of my life has gone out. All the joy I
                                        have known came through him. How ever I can go on alone I do
                                        not see."
                              

                    
                    
                    
                         MCCULLOCH AS A NATIONAL FIGURE

                          Ironically, Oscar McCulloch's work ultimately enjoyed far more
                              lasting influence nationally than it did in 
                                   Indianapolis
                              . Upon McCulloch's death, Judge W. A. Woods of
                              the Indianapolis COS wrote, with great understatement, that
                              "in respect to some of the underlying principles of social
                              organization and government he held views different or divergent from
                              those held by many, and perhaps most others, of the club."64 Although McCulloch's parishioners
                              supported him, and although the COS and IBS thrived under his
                              leadership and most of his critics respected the sincerity of his
                              beliefs and force of his intellect, few, if any, citizens of 
                                   Indianapolis
                               followed his philosophical evolution. Only the Rev. Myron
                              Reed appears to have been a kindred spirit, and he had emigrated from 
                                   Indianapolis
                               to find a more receptive home in 
                                   Denver
                              .65 On matters beyond his immediate
                              supervision, McCulloch's peers in the COS often chose not to
                              follow his example. While McCulloch's fingerprints could be
                              found all over the 
                                   Indianapolis
                               COS's operations during his lifetime, they
                              quickly faded after his death.

                         McCulloch had authored some of the foundational documents that
                              characterized the national scientific charity movement's
                              pessimistic and restrictive interpretation of pauperism in the early
                              1880s, but he died before he could see his progressive
                              reinterpretation take hold at the turn of the century. Few historians
                              have called attention to the pragmatic flexibility found in the
                              scientific charity movement even in its early, more dogmatic years, or
                              the fluidity and complexity that characterized the
                              leadership's thinking in later years. The most influential
                              leaders of the national movement at the end of the 1890s, especially
                              Edward Devine at the New York City COS and Columbia University, and
                              Josephine Shaw Lowell of the New York City COS and many other reform
                              movements, came to concur with McCulloch that they could find no
                              biological marker to warrant distinguishing paupers from poor 
                                   64Yearbook of Charities,
                                             1890-1891 (
                                             Indianapolis
                                        , 1892), 21.
                                   65Reed, like McCulloch, came out of the
                                        Chicago Theological Seminary, and it was he who recommended
                                        McCulloch for the ministry at Plymouth Church. Reed shared
                                        McCulloch's progressive viewpoint on such matters
                                        as support of the Knights of Labor, and set up a COS in 
                                             Denver
                                         based upon McCulloch's plan from 
                                             Indianapolis
                                        . See Isabel C. Barrows, ed., Proceedings of the National Conference of Charities
                                             and Correction (
                                             Boston
                                        , 1889); Weeks, Oscar Carleton
                                             McCulloch, 49, 144.
                              
                               persons.66 By
                              the first decade of the twentieth century, scientific charity leaders
                              regularly expressed their disbelief in a distinct pauper class, even
                              as they continued to accept the reality of criminal and feeble-minded
                                   classes.67 In the minds of the leaders of
                              American poverty reform, pauperism was no more. The term itself
                              quickly disappeared from their discourse, as Chart 1 indicates.

                         While I do not want to overstate McCulloch's influence on any
                              particular individual at the national level, his "Tribe of
                              Ishmael" work had been a cornerstone on which rested the
                              beliefs that paupers could and must be distinguished from the common
                              poor, and that charitable relief must be strictly monitored and, when
                              necessary, severely restricted. As national leaders came to identify
                              other, subtler causes of chronic poverty beyond the temptation of
                              easily available charity, they, like McCulloch, moved to emphasize
                              economic and social reform over repression, and loosened their
                              prohibitions against giving charitable relief. One of the most notable
                              outcomes of this new view of poverty was that the chronic poor escaped
                              the worst of the eugenic sterilization movement of the twentieth
                              century. McCulloch's work illustrates how interpretations of
                              scientific, political, and religious doctrines interacted to shape and
                              reshape reformers' approaches towards treating the poor. As a
                              prominent national figure in scientific charity, he signaled the 
                                   66See Josephine Shaw Lowell,
                                        "Poverty and its Relief: The Methods Possible in
                                        the 
                                             City of New York
                                        ," in Isabel C. Barrows, ed., Proceedings of the National Conference of
                                             Charities and Correction (
                                             Boston
                                        , 1895), 44; Edward T. Devine, "The
                                        Value and the Dangers of Investigation," in
                                        Barrows, ed., Proceedings of the National
                                             Conference of Charities and Correction (
                                             Boston
                                        , 1897), 194. Historian Joan Waugh also notes
                                        Lowell's progressive evolution; see Waugh, Unsentimental Reformer: The Life of Josephine
                                             Shaw Lowell (
                                             Cambridge
                                        , 
                                             Mass.
                                        , 1997). For a more general treatment of the
                                        potential or actual radical nature of the scientific charity
                                        movement, see Bremner, From the Depths,
                                        55-56.
                                   67See, for example, Homer Folks,
                                        "Disease and Dependence," in Isabel C.
                                        Barrows, ed., Proceedings of the National
                                             Conference of Charities and Correction (
                                             Columbus
                                        , 
                                             Ohio
                                        , 1903), 335, 337; F M. Powell, "Growth
                                        and Arrested Development," in Barrows, ed., Proceedings of the National Conference of
                                             Charities and Correction (
                                             Boston
                                        , 1899), 259-73; Charles Henderson,
                                        "President's Address: Growth and Arrested
                                        Development," in Barrows, ed., Proceedings of the National Conference of Charities
                                             and Correction (
                                             Boston
                                        , 1899), 14; Jacob A. Riis, "A Blast of
                                        Cheer," in Barrows, ed., Proceedings
                                             of the National Conference of Charities and
                                             Correction (
                                             Boston
                                        , 1901), 18-24; Rev. S. G. Smith,
                                        "Opening Address: The Heart of the
                                        Problem," in Barrows, ed., Proceedings
                                             of the National Conference of Charities and
                                             Correction (
                                             Boston
                                        , 1901), 14; Lee K. Frankel, "Needy
                                        Families in Their Homes: Report of the Committee,"
                                        in Barrows, ed., Proceedings of the National
                                             Conference of Charities and Correction (
                                             Columbus
                                        , 
                                             Ohio
                                        , 1906), 325; Edward Devine, "The
                                        Dominant Note of the Modern Philanthropy," in
                                        Barrows, ed., Proceedings of the National
                                             Conference of Charities and Correction (
                                             Columbus
                                        , 
                                             Ohio
                                        , 1906), 9.
                              
                              
                              
                                   Chart 1: "Pauper" Occurrence in NCCC
                                        Proceedings by Year68
                               movement's shift away from the skeptical
                              investigation of the poor for signs of pauperism, in favor of a new
                              line of thinking in the history of American poverty: that all of the
                              poor could potentially be raised from the depths. 
                                   68Based on an October 30, 2005,
                                        full-text search of the entire run of the Proceedings, online at
                                        http://www.hti.umich.edu/n/ncosw/. The search included all
                                        forms of the root "pauper," such as
                                        pauperized, pauperization, and paupers.
                              
                         
                    
               
               
               
                    Recasting the Tribe of Ishmael The Role of 
                              Indianapolis's
                          Nineteenth- Century Poor in Twentieth-Century Eugenics
                    ELSA F. KRAMER
                    And the angel of the Lord said unto her
                              Behold, thou art with child, and shalt bear a son, and shalt call his
                              name Ishmael, because the Lord hath heard thy affliction. And he will
                              be a wild man; his hand will be against every man, and every
                              man's hand against him; and he shall dwell in the presence of
                              all his brethren.
                         Genesis 16:11-12
                    Rainy weather and muddy streets kept many of his flock home on Sunday
                         morning, January 20, 1878, when Rev. Oscar C. McCulloch of 
                              Indianapolis's
                          Plymouth Congregational Church delivered a sermon on the
                         problem of the city's poor.1 Charity was not
                         an unusual topic 
                              Elsa F. Kramer is an editor and a researcher in 
                                        Indianapolis
                                   . She thanks the library staffs of the
                                   Indianapolis-Marion County Public Library, the Indiana State
                                   Archives, the Indiana State Library, the Indiana Historical
                                   Society, and the M. E. Grenander Department of Special
                                   Collections and Archives at the State University of New
                                   York-Albany for their assistance in gathering the materials cited
                                   in this article. She is grateful to William Schneider and Jason
                                   Lantzer at Indiana University-Indianapolis for their input on
                                   early drafts and to Eric Sandweiss of the IMH for his interest in
                                   and careful editing of the manuscript.
                              1Oscar McCulloch Diary, January 20, 1878,
                                   box 1, Oscar C. McCulloch Papers (Indiana State Library, 
                                        Indianapolis
                                   ).
                              INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, 104 (March 2008) C 2008, Trustees
                                   of Indiana University.
                         
                         within his congregation, which practiced
                         the Social Gospel of applied Christianity -"the alleviation, by
                         physical and spiritual means," as McCulloch's daughter,
                         Ruth, would later explain it, "of poverty, ignorance, misery, vice
                         and crime."2 This particular lecture, however,
                         reflected a change in his approach to welfare, away from almsgiving and
                         toward the exclusion of applicants deemed unworthy of relief.
                    It was coincidence that had brought about this key shift in the well-known
                         minister's attitude: According to McCulloch, his pastoral visits
                         to the poor had acquainted him with the members of one family whose dire
                         poverty so disturbed him that he sought to secure them emergency aid at the 
                              Center Township's
                          Trustee's office. There he learned, instead, of the
                         family's - and their friends' and relatives' -
                         long history of relief applications. At about the same time, he read a book
                         about "the Jukes," a 
                              New
                                   York
                          clan that reminded him of the family he visited in 
                              Indianapolis
                         . The book's author, Richard L. Dugdale, a researcher
                         interested in the causes of poverty and crime, had become curious about the
                         frequency of family ties among inmates he encountered while inspecting
                         county jails for the New York Prison Association. Although
                         Dugdale's study of criminality among the Jukes (the fictitious
                         surname by which he identified the clan) conceded that environmental
                         factors were as influential as hereditary causes in "giving
                         cumulative force to a career of debauch," McCulloch concluded that
                         charitable aid targeted only at alleviating deficits such as hunger and
                         homelessness encouraged the proliferation of degenerate families such as
                         the 
                              Indianapolis
                          clan, whom he labeled the Ishmaelites.3 He
                         began to argue for compulsory social controls designed to prevent the
                         "idle, wandering life" and "the propagation of
                         similarly disposed children," and helped craft legislation to
                         create the State Board of Charities and the Center Township Board of
                         Children's Guardians. The collaboration he created between public
                         and private charities infused the former - which gave relief without regard
                         to an applicant's character-with the latter's strategy of
                         giving based on moral 
                              2Ruth McCulloch, "Plymouth
                                   Church-II," Indiana Magazine of
                                        History, 7 (September 1911), 91.
                              3Oscar McCulloch Diary, January 20, 1878,
                                   box 1, Oscar C. McCulloch Papers; Richard L. Dugdale, "The Jukes": A Study in Crime,
                                        Pauperism, Disease and Heredity (
                                        New
                                             York
                                   , 1910), 26. On Dugdale's work and its
                                   impact on other eugenics studies, see Nicole Hahn Rafter, White Trash: The Eugenic Family Studies
                                        1877-1919 (
                                        Boston
                                   , 1988); Christine Rosen, Preaching
                                        Eugenics: Religious Leaders and the American Eugenics
                                        Movement (
                                        New
                                             York
                                   , 2004).
                         
                          merit.4 He
                         reorganized the Indianapolis Benevolent Society as the Charity Organization
                         Society (COS) and combined its efforts with those of Center Township relief caseworkers in order to identify citizens perceived to
                         be making poverty their profession. Notes from interviews conducted and
                         other public records gathered by these visitors of the poor were ultimately
                         collected in McCulloch's family study, which was intended to
                         provide evidence of "a constellation of degenerate
                         behaviors-including alcoholism, pauperism, social dependency,
                         shiftlessness, nomadism, and 'lack of moral
                         control'" caused by inherited genetic defects and
                         exacerbated by current charitable practice.5 The
                         solution, McCulloch believed, was to "close up official out-door
                         relief. . . check private and indiscriminate benevolence, or charity,
                         falsely so-called ... [and] get hold of the children."6
                     McCulloch's renowned career as a progressivist minister and charity
                         reformer was cut short by his premature death, at age forty-eight, in 1891.
                         Although he had succeeded, by at least some estimates, in reducing the
                         number of 
                              Indianapolis
                          citizens receiving public and private relief, he did not live
                         to see the unanticipated impact of his Ishmael study on eugenics, the
                         emerging science of race improvement through selective breeding.7 His work, intended to reduce dependence on public
                         welfare, continued for many years to be cited, with other family studies,
                         as evidence of a need for legislative measures to compel mandatory
                         sterilization of "mental defectives" and criminals.8 For McCulloch and 
                              Oscar McCulloch Diary, January 20, 1878, box 1, Oscar C.
                                   McCulloch Papers; McCulloch, "The Tribe of Ishmael: A
                                   Study in Social Degradation," in Isabel C. Barrows, ed.,
                                        Proceedings of the National Conference of
                                        Charities and Correction (
                                        Boston
                                    , 1888), 154-59; Arthur Estabrook, "The
                                   Tribe of Ishmael," 1922, series 2, box 1, folder 7,
                                   Arthur H. Estabrook Papers (University Archives, M. E. Grenander
                                   Department of Special Collections and Archives, University
                                   Libraries, University at Albany, State University of New York),
                                   25 (hereafter referred to as ERO Notes); Jacob Piatt Dunn, Greater 
                                             Indianapolis
                                        : The History, the Industries, the Institutions,
                                        and the People of a City of Homes, 2 vols. (
                                        Chicago
                                   , 1910), 1:606; Genevieve C. Weeks, Oscar Carleton McCulloch, 1843-1891: Preacher and
                                        Practitioner of Applied Christianity (
                                        Indianapolis
                                   , 1976), 176.
                              5David Micklos and Elof Carlson,
                                   "Engineering American Society: The Lesson of
                                   Eugenics," Nature Reviews Genetics, 1
                                   (November 2000), 155.
                              
                                   6McCulloch, "The Tribe of
                                   Ishmael," 8.
                              7ERO Notes, Introduction, 5. The ERO Notes
                                   include duplicate drafts of some sections that repeat
                                   page-numbering schemes; subheadings have been added to some
                                   citations for clarification.
                              8See, in addition to publications by Arthur
                                   Estabrook cited elsewhere in this paper, Charles B. Davenport,
                                   "Report of the Committee on Eugenics," American
                                   Breeders Association, 6 (
                                        Washington D.C.
                                   , 1911), 92-94; Harry H. Laughlin, "Report
                                   of the Committee to study and to report on the best practical
                                   means of cutting off the defective germ-plasm in the American
                                   population: legal, legislative and administrative aspects of
                                   sterilization," Eugenics Record Office Bulletin No. 10 (
                                        Cold Spring
                                             Harbor
                                   , 
                                        N.Y.
                                   , 1914).
                         
                          others of his day, pauperism had in
                         itself implied an inherited moral problem.9 The
                         scientists who revised his Ishmael family documents in subsequent decades
                         would emphasize his casual observations of individual feeblemindedness to
                         support a more comprehensive agenda for social reform, one that included
                         the institutionalization of adult vagrants, the prevention of any
                         possibility of their future reproduction, and the segregation of their
                         existing children-all to protect the integrity of well-born
                         society's germ-plasm.10 McCulloch had sought
                         to analyze and solve a social problem through historical narrative; his
                         family studies were later presented as scientific data in support of a
                         larger plan for genetically based social control." The
                         transformation of the largely unscientific Ishmael study and its
                         disparaging rhetoric into a tool in support of a Mendelian agenda for
                         racial hygiene can be seen through a comparison of two sets of Ishmael
                         notes. An examination of the first set, based on records gathered by
                         McCulloch and his colleagues in the late nineteenth century, alongside the
                         second, revised set prepared by biologist Arthur H. Estabrook at the
                         Eugenics Research Office (ERO) of the Carnegie Institution at 
                              Cold Spring Harbor
                         , 
                              New
                                   York
                         , after World War I, reflects the changing social context in
                         which the notes were first written and later edited and reveals the value
                         of the concept of inbred deficiencies to civic leaders seeking public
                         support for racial purity laws.
                    
                         EVOLUTION AND IMMIGRATION
                         As they are now, most nineteenth-century Hoosiers were politically
                              conservative, valuing individual freedom and small government over
                              social welfare. Nevertheless, after the Civil War they did eventually
                                   
                                   9G. A. Kleene, "The Problem of
                                        Medical Charity," Annals of the
                                             American Academy of Political and Social Science
                                        23 (May 1904), 3-4. Pauperism's "most
                                        essential marks seem to be idleness, improvidence,
                                        shamelessness, untruthfulness."
                                   10McCulloch, "The Tribe of
                                        Ishmael," 8.
                                   11"The family studies, then,
                                        were far more than bad science and self-serving doctrine.
                                        They were crafted documents that, through a process of
                                        accretion, fabricated a mythology. . . . The literature was
                                        able to develop from that point in part because it attracted
                                        wealthy patrons who supported the research and publication,
                                        [and] in part because it appealed professionally and
                                        personally to specialists (and would-be specialists) in
                                        social control." Rafter, White
                                             Trash, 30-31.
                              
                              enact compulsory (if undemanding)
                              schooling laws as well as legislation to protect child laborers, women
                              workers, and then prison workers. By the turn of the century, 
                                   Indianapolis
                               even became the national headquarters for several labor
                                   unions.12
                          Bigotry against outsiders, however, was rampant, especially during the
                              postwar economic downturns of the 1870s, 1880s, and 1890s, when access
                              to supplies and services was severely curtailed. A new wave of
                              immigrants, particularly eastern and southern Europeans, sought work
                              in 
                                   Indiana
                              , as did poor whites escaping the poverty of
                                   Appalachia or domestic servitude in the
                              cities of the East, and poor blacks escaping continued discrimination
                              in the South.13 Unfairly treated black laborers
                              began a mass migration to the North in 1878, resulting, by late 1879,
                              in an influx to 
                                   Indiana
                               of several thousand migrants from 
                                   North
                                        Carolina
                               and 
                                   Kentucky
                              .14 Most of these people arrived
                              destitute. Available work was often only seasonal, and thus many
                              depended on charity for at least part of the year. Hoosiers often
                              resented the newcomers, both for their cultural differences and for
                              their impact on scarce resources, and considered their substandard
                              housing, often in rough neighborhoods or in shacks in woods or river
                              bottoms, as evidence of their feeblemindedness.15
                              Even Rev. Myron Reed, a Congregational minister who worked on charity
                              reform with McCulloch in 
                                   Indianapolis
                               and later became a labor activist in 
                                   Denver
                               and one of the founders of the Charity Organizations
                              Society (later the United Way), did not extend his concern for the
                              poor to all those in need. He shared his opinion of European
                              immigrants with other attendees at the 1888 National Conference on
                              Charities and Correction: "Like the insects under the rotten
                              log, they like darkness and confinement."16
                         
                              12James M. Bergquist, "Tracing the
                                   Origins of a Midwestern Culture," Indiana
                                        Magazine of History, 77 (March 1981), 14, 18-19, 21,
                                   24, 26, 31; James H. Madison, The 
                                             Indiana
                                         Way: A State History (
                                        Bloomington
                                   , 
                                        Ind.
                                   , 1986), 145-46, 166.
                              13All three groups appear to have had
                                   representation among the Ishmaels.
                              14Emma Lou Thornbrough, The
                                        Negro in 
                                             Indiana
                                         Before 1900 (
                                        Bloomington
                                   , 
                                        Ind.
                                   , 1985), 212-24.
                              15The term feeblemindedness was used at that time as "a
                                   metaphor for innate criminality and hereditary
                                   unfitness." Nicole Hahn Rafter, Creating
                                        Born Criminals (
                                        Urbana
                                   , 
                                        Ill.
                                   , 1997), 87.
                              16James A. Denton, Rocky
                                        Mountain Radical: Myron W Reed, Christian Socialist (
                                        Albuquerque
                                   , 
                                        N.M.
                                   , 1997); Myron W. Reed, "Minutes and
                                   Discussion," in Isabel C. Barrows, ed., Proceedings of the National Conference of Charities and
                                        Correction (
                                        Boston
                                   , 1888), 430.
                         
                         
                         Because most Hoosiers opposed taxation to support public services such
                              as education and health care, newly arrived immigrants were largely
                              unschooled and their infant mortality rate was high. Those who could
                              not afford the cost of a marriage license, or were prohibited from
                              marrying by anti-miscegenation law, or had been prohibited from
                              marriage while indentured, simply cohabited - behavior considered to
                              be evidence of moral degeneracy.17 Propertyless
                              laborers tended to vote for working-class politicians who championed
                              individual freedoms, further alienating middle- and upper-class social
                              reformers and their candidates in both political parties, all of whom
                              advocated increased governmental regulation of personal behavior. Many
                              immigrants also provoked the state's native-born middle-class
                              citizenry by ignoring temperance and sabbath laws.18 Economist G. A. Kleene later observed that those who
                              sought and accepted charity assistance "became abnormal,
                              pitied, perhaps, but socially outcast. A despised beggar class began
                              to form, with traditions and methods of its own. Poor relief became a
                              problem ... an affair between strangers . . . with all the distrust
                              and deception growing out of this relation."19
                         As McCulloch and other charity reformers looked for a new, more
                              scientific way of understanding and implementing their work, they
                              found inspiration in Charles Darwin's theory of natural
                              selection and in Sir Francis Galton's 1865
                              "Hereditary Talent and Character."
                              McCulloch's writing shows the impact of this new knowledge
                              upon the traditional, widely held belief that God determined
                              individual human traits. "The science of racial integrity and
                                   progress"20gave church and other
                              civic leaders a new way to explain the importance of environment and
                              reproductive choices to heredity. Although some people embraced the
                              idea of "survival of the fittest" as a reason to
                              encourage high-achieving members of society to have many children,
                              others, equally worried about "survival of the
                                   unfit,"21 would eventually see in
                              evolutionary theory a justification for controlling the reproduction
                              of people deemed genetically inferior - often nonwhites and
                              immigrants.
                         
                              17Thornbrough, Negro in 
                                             Indiana
                                        , 207-208.
                              18Madison, The 
                                             Indiana
                                         Way, 186, 212-13, 215, 220-21.
                              19Kleene, "Problem of Medical
                                   Charity," 6.
                              20William E. Kellicott, The
                                        Social Direction of Human Evolution: An Outline of the
                                        Science of Eugenics (
                                        New
                                             York
                                   , 1923), 8.
                              21Rafter, White Trash,
                                   5.
                         
                         
                         McCulloch's own arguments reflected the minister's
                              attempt to integrate his moralistic biases with the growing scientific
                              evidence. Although he interpreted Darwinian theory to say that
                              "vice is not a diabolical inspiration but the remnant of a
                              previous animal connection slowly being sloughed off," he
                              warned ominously of a pauper class multiplying unchecked
                              "like devil-grass." While he saw the ascendancy of
                              some classes over others as evidence of evolution,22 he cautioned that an underclass of defectives, left
                              unchecked by social measures, would cause the degeneration of society.
                              In his first published reference to the unnamed 
                                   Indianapolis
                               family that he would come to consider representative of
                              this threat, he asserted that three generations had received public
                              aid, that incest was not uncommon among them, and that many of the
                              children died in early childhood.23 And although
                              he considered their "relation of antagonism to
                              society" a result of "natural depravity,"
                              he admitted that such a view was "not scientific,"
                              and he pointed instead to a "constitutional inability to
                              prolonged and sustained labor" as the cause of their
                                   degeneracy.24
                              Center Township caseworkers continued for a decade to seek information in
                              support of McCulloch's theory about pauperism in 
                                   Indianapolis
                              , but even his own sermons and newspaper columns gave
                              little consideration to other explanations of the families'
                              "antagonism to society."
                         McCulloch related his "study of social degradation" at
                              the 15th National Conference of Charities and Correction in July 1888.
                              The paper painted a vivid picture of the Tribe of Ishmael, which
                              McCulloch described as an extended group having its origins in
                              circa-1840 
                                   Indianapolis
                               and demonstrating a history of poverty and intermarriage
                              through several generations. He emphasized the family's
                              crime, licentiousness, and mental weakness as well as their record of
                              "continuous aid from the township" and other public
                              welfare sources. Comparing their "decaying stock" to
                              the parasitism of a crustacean genus, he cited 
                                   22Oscar McCulloch Diary, March 16,
                                        1877, Oscar C. McCulloch Papers; McCulloch, "The
                                        Tribe of Ishmael," 6; Stephen Ray Hall,
                                        "Oscar McCulloch and 
                                             Indiana
                                         Eugenics," (Ph. D. diss., Virginia
                                        Commonwealth University, 1993), 90.
                                   23McCulloch, Organized
                                             Charities in Cities (
                                             Indianapolis
                                        , 1880); originally published as
                                        "Associated Charities," in E B. Sanborn,
                                        ed., Proceedings of the Seventh Annual
                                             Conference of Charities (
                                             Boston
                                        , 1880), 122-35.
                                   24Newpaper clipping, box 1, folder 2,
                                        Oscar C. McCulloch Papers. McCulloch saved the clipping,
                                        hand-dated February 2, 1879, about a lecture he gave on
                                        "The Treatment of the Guilty" following
                                        the execution of two criminals.
                              
                               an
                              "irresistible" inherited dependency that overrode
                              any ability for self- help. He criticized the members of morally
                              minded church organizations and philanthropic societies for providing
                              such families with the unrestricted private aid that encouraged
                              nomadic lifestyles and ill health.25 Finally,
                              using genetic models of inheritance, McCulloch argued that the best
                              way to alleviate human suffering was through legislated controls on
                              charity and child welfare.
                    
                    
                         THE INDIANA NOTES AND THE ERO NOTES
                         McCulloch's study of the Ishmaels benefited from his close
                              personal and professional relationship with Center Township Trustee William Smith King, who helped him to investigate
                              applications for public relief.26 The township
                              gave McCulloch's Indianapolis COS access to case histories on
                              six thousand families who had received aid. McCulloch also relied on
                              the work of Frank Wright, credited with making the original histories
                              that McCulloch consulted. Wright was a reporter for the Indianapolis Sentinel from 1883 through 1887; served as
                              township trustee, charity organizations clerk, and visitor of the
                              township poor in 1888 through 1890; and was an agent of the Board of
                              Children's Guardians by 1895.27
                         Although McCulloch had access to a huge collection of documents
                              concerning individual Ishmaelites, subsequent research has been
                              challenging. Fifteen thousand original pages of descriptions,
                              collected prior to McCulloch's death and stored by the COS,
                              were, according to a later account, "inadvertently thrown
                              away about 1895."28 Today, along with a
                              set of genealogical trees of 400 families and an index to the
                              discarded 
                                   25McCulloch, "The Tribe of
                                        Ishmael," 1, 3, 8; Oscar McCulloch Diary, January
                                        20, 1878, box 1, Oscar C. McCulloch Papers..
                                   26Stephen T. Ziliak,
                                        "Self-Reliance Before the Welfare State: Evidence
                                        from the Charity Organization Movement in the United
                                        States," Journal of Economic
                                             History, 64 (June 2004), 438. "The data
                                        in the family history studies ... in 
                                             Indianapolis
                                         were secured entirely from the 
                                             Indianapolis
                                         members of these families .... No field work
                                        was done by McCulloch's investigators away from 
                                             Indianapolis
                                         due to lack of funds." ERO Notes,
                                        Population, 32.
                                   27Records of the Marion County
                                        Commissioners show one payment to Wright as a
                                        "visitor of the poor of Center Township from April 1st, 1888 to April 1st,
                                        1889"; R. L. Polk's 
                                                  Indianapolis
                                              (
                                                  Marion County
                                             , 
                                                  Ind.
                                             ) City Directory (
                                             Indianapolis
                                        ), 1881 through 1890, 1895.
                                   28ERO Notes, 10. At page 32, however,
                                        the pages are said to have been thrown away in 1892 because
                                        of "the value of this data not being recognized at
                                        this time" and that they "gave only data
                                        about the pauperism, nothing about the traits and habits of
                                        the individuals."
                              
                               records, at least two versions of
                              the Ishmael studies that include information on family traits survive
                              in archives. Scholars researching the Tribe have relied on
                              McCulloch's 1880-88 publications, which summarize the
                              caseworkers' findings,29 as well as on
                              his vivid narrative introduction to the notes comprising the extant
                              case histories. An apparently complete typescript of these original
                              family narratives, available at the Indiana State Archives, provides
                              full names and some neighborhood locations of at least 160 families,
                              including the Ishmaels and their friends and relatives.30 Few of the surnames identified match those to be found
                              on McCulloch's 1888 pedigree diagrams or in the relief
                              records of the Indianapolis COS - all of which may have been made up
                              to protect the privacy of those listed.31 And
                              despite the notetakers' focus on pauperism, the list of
                              persons named and numbered in the original notes includes some
                              described as having never applied for charity. The cover sheet to this 
                                   Indiana
                               set of the family histories indicates that they were
                              "copied from notes made by J. Frank Wright from 1880 to
                              1890" and "loaned to A. H. Estabrook," the
                              Carnegie Institution biologist, "by Mr. Wright in
                              1917." Estabrook then gave this copied version of the case
                              histories to the Board of State Charities of 
                                   Indiana
                               on July 25, 1922.32 Variations in
                              writing styles, typewriter fonts, and other internal inconsistencies
                              in these Indiana Notes - especially date references beyond the years
                              indicated on the title page - suggest multiple authors over many
                              years.
                         
                              29For a description of caseworker
                                   methodology and visitor notes, see Ziliak,
                                   "Self-Reliance Before the Welfare State,"
                                   442-44, 454-56.
                              30Referring to the various family pedigree
                                   studies, Rafter asks why "none of the
                                   works trace[s] bad immigrant or urban families" and says
                                   that the Ishmaels were "in no way integrated into urban
                                   life." Rafter, White Trash, 13 n16.
                                   The occupations and street locations described in the Indiana
                                   Notes, however, indicate that many of the families lived and
                                   worked in or near downtown 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    at least part of the year. Estabrook says in the ERO
                                   Notes that "most of the Tribe lived in or near the city
                                   of 
                                        Indianapolis
                                   " and as a result "there is little
                                   consanguinity ... probably due to the fact that mating was not
                                   restricted by geographical boundaries to selection from a few
                                   individuals in the same family relation." ERO Notes,
                                   38.
                              31Hall, "Oscar McCulloch and 
                                        Indiana
                                    Eugenics," 110. Those families identified
                                   in the Indiana State Archives document are grouped under the
                                   following surnames: Ishmael, Smith, Eads, Hatton, Bartlett,
                                   Morrison, Ross, Williams, Uphold, Harrington, Cunningham, Rogers,
                                   Barnaby, Hulen, Bogert, Earle, Wilson, Logsdon, Lynn, Otis, and
                                   Owens. Dozens of additional names are listed within those
                                   entries.
                              32"The Tribe of Ishmael. Copied
                                   from Notes made by J. Frank Wright 1880 to 1890"
                                   (Indiana State Archives, Indiana Commission on Public Records, 
                                        Indianapolis
                                   ). Hereafter referred to as Indiana Notes.
                         
                         
                         
                              Table VIIRacial classification as shown by
                                        marriage licenses
                              
                                   Contracting parties
                                   Actual racial make-up
                                   Year
                                   Color Given in Liscence
                                   Children Married as
                              
                              
                                   Alphonso Brown and Belle Jones........
                                   IW X IW
                                   1888
                                   Col X Col
                                   Antonio and Dean, both W
                              
                              
                                   Aaron Brown and Daphne Brown.......
                                   IW X IW 
                                   1884
                                   Col X Col
                                   "A" as I, "B" and
                                        "C"as W
                              
                              
                                   Rupert Brown and Mirandy Hill........
                                   IW X W
                                   1888
                                   Col X Col
                                   Mick as N(1) and W(2): Nora and Shy as W
                              
                              
                                   Roland Ross and Izetta Brown........
                                   W X IW
                                   1887
                                   Col X Col
                                   Helena and Levan as W; Ichabod as I
                              
                              
                                   Lambert and Winifred Brown...........
                                   IW X IW
                                   1881
                                   Mul X Mul
                                   Annie as W
                              
                              
                                   Leander and Minerva Brown...........
                                   INW X IW
                                   1881
                                   Col X Col
                                   Josephine and Inez as N; Vera W
                              
                              
                                   Gus Jones and Lois Miller.............
                                   IW X W
                                   1875
                                   Col X Col
                                   Christina, Ulysses, Bruno, Job and Lloyd as W; Leslie and
                                        Israel as I; Louis as N
                              
                              
                                   Hugo Jones and Hulda Brown..........
                                   IW X IW 
                                   1890
                                   Col X Col
                                   Bessie as W; Hank as I
                              
                              
                                   Burton Jones and Addie Long..........
                                   IW X IW
                                   1892
                                   Col X Col
                                   Jacob as I
                              
                              
                                   Abraham and Felice Johnson...........
                                   IW X INW 
                                   1875
                                   Black X Black
                                   Timothy as N; Rex as W
                              
                              
                                   Timothy and Deborah Johnson.........
                                   INW X INW
                                   1897
                                   Col X Col
                                   Donald and Salome as I
                              
                              
                                   Hiram and Henrietta Jones............
                                   INW X IW
                                   1875
                                   Col X Col
                                   Paul as W
                              
                              
                                   Carl and Geraldine Black..............
                                   INW X NW
                                   1875
                                   Black X Black
                                   "A" and Beatrice as W;
                                        "E", Wilder and Lucia as I; Beryl as N and
                                        W
                              
                              
                                   Dwight and Alice Jones................
                                   INW X IW
                                   1892
                                   Col X Col
                                   Douglas as W
                              
                              
                                   Austin and Roxanna Brown............
                                   IN X IW
                                   1879
                                   W X W
                                   Leroy, Hetty, Adelbert, Melissa and Augusta as W,
                                        "C" and "G"as N; Althea
                                        as I
                              
                              
                                   Leander Borwn and Beulah James......
                                   INW X IW
                                   1908
                                   W X W
                                   Franklin and Lorman as W; Rebecca as I
                              
                              
                                   Ulysses and Helena Jones..............
                                   IN X IW
                                   1902
                                   W X W
                                   "B"
                              
                              
                                   Bruno and Cilla Jones.................
                                   IW X INW
                                   1900
                                   W X W
                                   Leah and Winnie as W; Charlotte and Crystal as I
                              
                         
                         I, Indian; N, Negro; W, White.
                         Table on the Racial Makeup of a 
                                   Virginia
                               Family Arthur Estabrook and the ERO studied
                              multi-racial families, including the Wins of 
                                   Virginia
                              Arthur H. Estabrook and Ivan E. McDougle, Mongrel Virginians: The Win Tribe(
                                   Baltimore
                              , 1926)
                         
                         Arthur Estabrook's interest in McCulloch's
                              "three generations" of intermarried poor families
                              originated during his term as an investigator for the Indiana State
                              Committee on Mental Defectives (1916-18) and continued during his
                              subsequent work on hereditable human traits at the Carnegie
                              Institution's Eugenics Record Office (ERO), an organization
                              founded in 1910 as a clearinghouse for data on human traits and
                                   heredity.33 Estabrook was especially
                              interested in the traits of mixed-race groups and in the sterilization
                              of "mental defectives." He presented reexaminations
                              of the Jukes and the Ishmaels at the Second International Congress of
                              Eugenics, held in 1921 at the American Museum of Natural History in 
                                   New York
                                        City
                              . His work for the ERO also included The Nam
                                   Family: A Study in Cacogenics (1912, with Charles B.
                              Davenport) and Mongrel Virginians: The Win Tribe
                              (1926, with Ivan E. McDougle), studies that involved bi-racial and
                              tri-racial individuals respectively. He represented the ERO in 
                                   Virginia
                               from 1924 to 1926 during an analysis of the issues in the
                              Carrie Buck sterilization lawsuit, and served as the president of the
                              Eugenics Research Association 1925-1926.34
                         Estabrook's activities following his move to the ERO reflected
                              the widening scientific acceptance of eugenics research and a
                              consequent turn toward more aggressive advocacy, on the part of some
                              scientists and social reformers, for strong measures such as
                              sterilization. Such reformers typically presented compulsory
                              sterilization and other eugenic programs as humanitarian in approach
                              and economic in efficiency. Their studies correlated the increase in
                              immigration to the 
                                   United
                                        States
                               (as well as the persistence of allegedly inferior,
                              native-born descendants of families such as the Ishmaels) with
                              statistics on crime and poverty.35 In their 1912
                              report on a rural 
                                   Massachusetts
                               family they called the Hill Folk, ERO biologists Florence
                              H. Danielson and Charles B. Davenport asked: "Should the
                              industrious, intelligent citizen continue in each 
                                   33Eugenics Record Office Records,
                                        1670-1964, ms. collection 77 (American Philosophical
                                        Society, 
                                             Philadelphia
                                        ); Paul A. Lombardo, "Facing Carrie
                                        Buck," Hastings Center Report, 33
                                        (March-April 2003), 14-17; Garland E. Allen, "The
                                        Eugenics Record Office at 
                                             Cold Spring
                                                  Harbor
                                        , 1910-1940: An Essay in Institutional
                                        History," Osiris, 2nd series, 2
                                        (1986), 225-64.
                                   34Estabrook Papers. Seventeen-year-old
                                        Carrie Buck was declared "socially
                                        inadequate" and intentionally sterilized in a test
                                        of 
                                             Virginia's
                                         1924 law. Buck and the lawsuit are described in
                                        Lombardo, "Facing Carrie Buck."
                                   34William Bacon Bailey, Modern Social Conditions: A Statistical Study of
                                             Birth, Marriage, Divorce, Death, Disease, Suicide,
                                             Immigration, etc., with Special Reference to the 
                                                  United States
                                              (
                                             New York
                                        , 1906).
                              
                              generation to triple or quadruple
                              his taxes for maintaining these defectives . . . or can steps be taken
                              to . . . prevent the propagation of inevitable
                                   dependents?"36 Other scientists
                              openly expressed concern about cacogenics, the deterioration of a
                              specific genetic stock. British biologist and educator William E.
                              Kellicott spoke on the scientific, ethical, and economic impacts of
                              racial purity and implored his audience "to think of the
                              future of our communities and nations and of our race, rather than
                              contentedly to ... parade with self-satisfied air through our glass
                              houses of Anglo-Saxon supremacy."37 Dr.
                              H. E. Jordon was even more to the point: "Unless some
                              eliminating mechanism be installed the Anglo-Saxon race surely is
                              doomed to the fate of the Greeks and Romans."38
                         The second "Tribe of Ishmael" document, which
                              Estabrook compiled and edited after World War I, constitutes an
                              important primary document in the evolution of the use of family
                              poverty studies, from the basis for an unscientific appeal for charity
                              reform to the tool of a more nuanced case for the need for racial
                              integrity. These ERO Notes, which include a redacted version of the
                              Indiana Notes, are distinguished by the careful editing or deletion of
                              personal descriptions and the addition of background materials
                              intended to give credence to the theories propounded by Estabrook and
                              other eugenicists of the day. Archived with Estabrook's
                              papers at the State University of New York at Albany, the ERO Notes
                              credit Mary Ogden Dranga, a fieldworker for the ERO, and Kate E
                              Parker, registrar for the Indianapolis COS, with having revived the
                              study (which had originally ended with McCulloch's death) in
                                   1911.39 Wright is mentioned as having
                              assisted only for short periods, as are Estabrook's first
                              wife, Jessie, and an ERO worker named Corinne S. Eddy. Finally,
                              Estabrook credits William King Smith and Center Township employee Nancy Hicks with having created the original
                                   
                                   36Florence H. Danielson and Charles B.
                                        Davenport, The Hill Folk: Report on a Rural
                                             Community of Hereditary Defectives (
                                             Cold Spring
                                                  Harbor
                                        , Long Island, 
                                             N.Y.
                                        , 1912), 33-34.
                                   37Kellicott, Social
                                             Direction of Human Evolution, 16. 
                                   38H. E. Jordon, "Surgical
                                        Sex-Sterilization: Its Value as a Eugenic Measure,"
                                             American Journal of Clinical
                                        Medicine, 20 (1913), 987.
                                   39ERO Notes, 3. A letter in box 6,
                                        folder 2, Oscar C. McCulloch Papers, written by Mrs. Parker
                                        to Dr. Carleton B. McCulloch, indicates that she had just
                                        been asked on May 7, 1914, by "Mr. [Harry]
                                        Laughlin, Superintendent of the Eugenics Record Office ...
                                        to write for his office an account of the work on the
                                        'Tribe of Ishmael' which was done here
                                        some years ago under your father's
                                        leadership."
                              
                              records system for interviewing
                              relief applicants from which the Ishmael studies were made. The
                              document carries Estabrook's byline and is marked
                              "semi-final complete" in what appears to be his
                              handwriting; these facts, along with his assertion in the preface that
                              he continued the Ishmael study beginning in 1915, with time away only
                              for military service, suggests that he had the final edit.40
                         The ERO Notes are reportorial in approach and at the same time crafted
                              for persuasion. They reflect a change in cultural and moral tone from
                              the 1880s to the 1920s, eliminating some of the negative commentary of
                              the Indiana Notes and adding praise in some instances, and they also
                              disguise the names of all but the earliest Ishmael family members in
                              an alphanumeric scheme. Those persons selected for description
                              "are chosen to show various characteristics of the
                              Tribe," the "underlying condition" of which
                              is "the well-known story of the uncared for and extremely
                              prolific feeble-minded people."41
                              Arranged as if planned for a book, the manuscript begins with
                              background on the development of 
                                   Indianapolis
                               and its charitable organizations, including statistics on
                              relief in Center Township from 1874 to 1889 and commentary on the
                              trustee's role in local politics;42
                              reprints McCulloch's 1888 essay on social degradation; jumps
                              to Frank Wright's 1890 essay, "Marriage
                              Relationships in the Tribe of Ishmael"; and then includes a
                              previously published short, eulogistic biography of McCulloch. An
                              overview of pauper origins in 
                                   Indianapolis
                               follows, with emphasis on the arrival of English
                              criminals and indentured servitude in this country during the colonial
                              era, and then includes an explanation of gypsying among the Ishmaels.
                              The family descriptions follow, substantially rewritten from the
                              Indiana Notes and prefaced with a more sympathetic description of the
                              Tribe's migrant origins.43 Although the
                              document includes Oscar 
                                   40ERO Notes, 7, 3.
                                   41"The three distinguishing
                                        traits of the members of the Tribe of Ishmael are the
                                        pauperism, the gypsying and the loose marriage
                                        relations." Ibid., 52-53, quote p. 48.
                                   42"Poor aid was used as a lure
                                        to secure adherents to the party then in power."
                                        Ibid., 6.
                                   43"The different families of
                                        the Tribe came to 
                                             Indiana
                                        , separately in most cases, on the general tide
                                        of migration west from the original thirteen colonies along
                                        the seaboard just following the War of the Revolution. . . .
                                        The early immigration into 
                                             Indiana
                                         was mainly from southwestern 
                                             Ohio
                                         and 
                                             Kentucky
                                        . These people in turn had come either from the
                                        Carolinas through the Cumberland Gap or 
                                             Tennessee
                                        , or from 
                                             Virginia
                                        , 
                                             Maryland
                                         and 
                                             Pennsylvania
                                         overland by way of the Potomac
                                             River, over the mountains and then down the
                                             Ohio
                                             River." ERO Notes, Population,
                                        29.
                              
                               McCulloch's previously
                              published description of the Ishmaels, it eliminates the often-quoted
                              introduction to the Indiana Notes, typical in its style of the
                              earliest records in the study: Where they
                                   came from is not now established .... They were, as a rule, a
                                   large, raw-boned class, coarse, rough in their manners and ways
                                   of life, and primitive in their eating. All was fish which came
                                   to their net. They lived in the hills, and hunting was the chief
                                   occupation. . . . That the family was of a low and thievish bent
                                   is a natural conclusion, and such was the case. ... It was an
                                   ignorant family. There was no pretense of education among them.
                                   They were classed separately, and their associates were few
                                   except such as they found among the outlaws of the hills and the
                                   indians. Their features have always been the same in general
                                   outline. Narrow, retreating foreheads, eyes which "look
                                   like the eyes of a pig" .... When on the road they are
                                   free and easy, full of a sort of glee and happiness which is not
                                   easy to describe unless one can appreciate the lawless feeling
                                   which they have when they find themselves travelling so
                                   constantly that officers of the law have no terrors for them. . .
                                   . The Ishmaels never seem to try to accumulate property to any
                                   extent .... They seem to be unable to conceive of a life beyond
                                   the tomb.44
                         In place of this casual condemnation of the families' physical,
                              cultural, and behavioral attributes, the opening paragraphs of the ERO
                              Notes assert that the Ishmaels were "the typical
                              feeble-minded people that are so easily recognized today."
                              The ERO Notes also offer a more specific historical origin for the
                              Tribe: that the Ishmael families can be understood through an
                              examination of the history of 
                                   Indianapolis
                               from the time of the new state Constitution in 1851, when
                              "the foreign pauper, meaning the pauper recently arrived in
                              the city, became a problem."45
                         
                    
                    
                         ORIGINS, WANDERLUST, AND GYPSYING
                         Both the Indiana Notes and the ERO Notes follow their introductions with
                              an account of the Ishmael family's early history. Family
                                   
                                   44Indiana Notes, 1-2.
                                   45ERO Notes, 4, 5.
                              
                              patriarch Benjamin Ishmael arrived
                              in 
                                   Kentucky
                               from 
                                   Maryland
                               or 
                                   Virginia
                              . Once there, Ben "took a farm of refuse
                              land" (possibly a military bounty land) in 
                                   Nicholas
                                        (later Bourbon) County
                               .46 Both sets of notes describe him
                              as large, ignorant, rough, and dishonest. The Indiana Notes introduce
                              his wife, Jennie, as being "large in build, ignorant, dirty,
                              lazy, but as ready to fight as her husband," while in the ERO
                              Notes "nothing is known of Jennie Ishmael."47 According to the Indiana Notes, the couple
                              moved west in the early 1800s and were "never heard from
                              again"; the ERO Notes acknowledge that Ben's will
                              was filed in 
                                   Nicholas
                                        County
                               in 1822.48 Of the eight children
                              described in the Indiana Notes, only one, Samuel, is "counted
                              in with the good citizens," having been reformed by his
                              Methodist wife; Samuel's grandson William later attended
                              medical school under the tutelage of Dr. William N. Wishard of 
                                   Indianapolis
                              , "who reports him to be a quiet, orderly man, of
                              the class who are frequently found to be very successful practitioners
                              in rural communities." The ERO Notes add that Samuel
                              ("Abe") and his wife owned real estate.49
                         With only one of the grandchildren found acceptable in the Indiana
                              Notes, Estabrook made a special effort in the ERO Notes to distinguish
                              three of Ben and Jennie's offspring from the others, fleshing
                              out the sketchy details from the Indiana Notes and giving them and all
                              their 
                                   46Indiana Notes, 3; "Colonial
                                        Ancestors," Benjamin Ishmael, online at
                                        http://colonialancestors.com/cgi-bin/ancestors.cgi/?Williams.
                                        Also, "The parish records of 
                                             Virginia
                                         in the latter part of the seventeenth and first
                                        part of the eighteenth century show the names of many Tribe
                                        families some with property and some as servants. ... It is
                                        reasonable to assume that some of the Tribe families would
                                        go back to the paupers, criminals and lewd women sent from 
                                             England
                                         to the colonies." ERO Notes,
                                        31.
                                   47Indiana Notes, 1-2, 5-6; ERO Notes,
                                        68-69. Hugo Leaming notes that descriptions of Ben Ishmael
                                        in the Indiana Notes are remarkably similar to those of the
                                        nonreligious, independent, wandering outcast Ishmael Bush in
                                        James Fenimore Cooper's novel  The
                                             Prairie (1827). Hugo P Leading, "The Ben
                                        Ishmael Tribe: A Fugitive 'Nation' of the
                                        Old Northwest," The Ethnic Frontier:
                                             Essays in the History of Group Survival in 
                                                  Chicago
                                              and the Midwest, eds. Melvin
                                        G. Holli and Peter d'A. Jones (
                                             Grand Rapids
                                        , 
                                             Mich.
                                        , 1977), 116-21. See also William H. Goetzmann,
                                             James Fenimore Cooper: 'The
                                             Prairie,' in Hennig Cohen, ed., Landmarks of American Writing (
                                             New York
                                        , 1969), 75-87, online at
                                        http://external.oneonta.edu/cooper/articles/other/
                                        1969other-goetzmann.html
                                   48Indiana Notes, 3; "Colonial
                                        Ancestors"; ERO Notes, 69.
                                   49Indiana Notes, 3; ERO Notes, 71-72.
                                        Dr. Wishard graduated from Indiana Medical College in 1874.
                                        He became the city hospital's eighth superintendent
                                        in 1879, at the time McCulloch began his Ishmael study and
                                        when most of the patients were among the city's
                                        poorest residents. Dr. Wishard, after whom the hospital was
                                        eventually renamed, was thus helpful to Estabrook in
                                        reconstructing details of the Ishmael families and
                                        friends.
                              
                               progeny fictitious first names
                              "to protect the self-respecting members of this
                              family." Two of the three settled in 
                                   Kentucky
                              , "one being of a much higher social and
                              intellectual status than the other," and the third moved from 
                                   Indiana
                               to 
                                   Missouri
                              . Only "the salient facts" are said to
                              be included in the ERO Notes, so "that the story of the
                              family may be free from uninteresting details." References to
                              events during the "World War" indicate these records
                              were compiled after 1918. Estabrook wrote, "It is evident
                              that the new bloods mating into the Ishmael germ plasm are having
                              their influence in bettering the general mental and social levels of
                              the group."50
                         It was Ben and Jennie's eighth child, John, whose descendants
                              made up the so-called Tribe of Ishmael as identified by McCulloch. On
                              John's life, the Indiana Notes remain essentially intact in
                              the ERO version: "John was a vagrant and given to much
                              wandering, and it is not improbable that he was in 
                                   Ohio
                               for some years before he reached 
                                   Indianapolis
                              ." Whether he traveled with his parents or
                              remained on their farm is unclear, but he arrived in 
                                   Indianapolis
                               in the early 1820s and, being "diseased ...
                              could go no further," according to the Indiana Notes. Yet in
                              the ERO Notes John was "in the habit of making annual
                              excursions, in the summer time, to the Ohio River country below 
                                   Cincinnati
                              ." Some time after 1830 these trips,
                              "which in after years were referred to as
                              'Gypsying,'" took a northward route
                              instead, toward the Wabash River. The charity relief record of John
                              Ishmael's descendants in 
                                   Indianapolis
                              , who were "generally diseased," begins
                              in 1840.51
                         John, according to the Indiana Notes, was "the earliest known
                              of these 'American gypsies,'" and married
                              Betsy Harbet, a "half-breed Indian" whose
                              "wandering blood" revealed itself in the succeeding
                              generation's "poison and passion." A
                              grandson said she might have been Dutch, because no one could
                              understand her when she spoke; Estabrook said in the ERO Notes she was
                              "devoid of mirth" and no doubt feebleminded.
                              "She did not take kindly to a civilized life,"
                              according to the Indiana Notes, which added that Betsy's
                              predilections helped to account for the family's travels. The
                              apex of the northern route of their "gypsying" was
                              an Indian reservation on the Wabash, where "John and
                                   
                                   50ERO Notes, 66, 70, 112.
                                   51Indiana Notes, 4-5; ERO Notes, 13,
                                        from McCulloch's 1888 paper. Estabrook says that
                                        Ben and Jennie had ten children. ERO Notes, 70.
                              
                               his mongrel brood were so like the
                              Indians in their habits of life, so lazy, so filthy, so primitive in
                              their habits, that they were readily admitted to the reservation, with
                              liberty to hunt and fish, which was refused the genuine sportsmen and
                              professional huntsmen and trappers." As development in the
                              area reduced the family's hunting opportunities, they headed
                              west into the 
                                   Illinois
                               prairie. The length of their stays varied but the family
                              returned to 
                                   Indianapolis
                               for the winter.52
                         According to the Indiana Notes, John and Betsy's children
                              included Tom, "a rambler, and of a generally trifling
                              disposition," who was living in 1891 "about three
                              miles northeast of 
                                   Tipton
                               in a three-cornered log cabin,"53 and Jim, whose marriage, like the marriages of his
                              wife's sisters, "took place upon some of the annual
                              gypsy tours to the Wabash." As the named source of some of the
                              background material in the Indiana Notes, Jim's son George
                              receives kind treatment: "George is the most intelligent of
                              all the Ishmaels and has done some work and really does think at
                              times. Once he said, 'I reckon ours is the oldest family in
                              the world, I have heard tell of one of our family being named in the
                              Bible.' George once refused charity when he was sick. He has
                              been on many a gypsy trip." Called "Alfred"
                              in the ERO Notes, George becomes "keen and shrewd ... more
                              industrious than any of the others." In both sets of notes
                              his first wife is said to have had "some negro
                              blood"; in the ERO notes she has suffered from
                              "epileptic seizures," and all three of his wives are
                              described as "feeble-minded."54
                         In both sets of notes Jim's daughter Sarah was "a
                              tall, raw-boned woman, once described by a policeman as the
                              'Ishmael who walks like a man and talks bass.' She
                              is one of the most persistent wanderers, and spends most of her time
                              upon the road between 
                                   Indianapolis
                               and points in 
                                   Illinois
                              . It has often been stated that this woman has buried a
                              number of children born to her in fence corners or on the banks of
                              streams which thing she did while on her wanderings. If so,"
                              the Indiana Notes 
                                   52Estabrook, Eugenics,
                                             Genetics and the Family, 403; Indiana Notes, 13,
                                        6, 5; ERO Notes, 86.
                                   53Indiana Notes, 7. The Tipton County
                                        Historical Society has no record of such a structure but
                                        finds five of the Ishmael men listed in the Civil War
                                        Regiment Rosters. E-mail to the author, November 22,
                                        2006.
                                   54Indiana Notes, 9, 16; ERO Notes,
                                        90-91. Another source of background material was
                                        George's daughter-in-law Kate Thornton, a native of 
                                             Ireland
                                        , who had "a great deal of
                                        intelligence, and she had much of the information to be
                                        found here, in all of which she was afterward proven to be
                                        correct." Indiana Notes, 12.
                              
                              conclude, "it must be true
                              of her friends and relatives." The ERO Notes add:
                              "That she was a harlot goes without saying." Her
                              second husband, described in the Indiana Notes as "a
                              remarkable compound of rogue and tramp" and "a
                              leading character among the gypsy crowd" who made
                              "his wives go out and beg from house to house and thus
                              support him," is "feeble-minded" in the ERO
                                   version.55
                         Based on the surnames listed in the Indiana Notes, and despite the
                              frequent references to "gypsies" and
                              "gypsying," the Ishmaels described seem not to have
                              had Romany origins, although they may have befriended, married, or
                              traveled with some Romnichels (English Gypsies) when the latter came
                              to North
                                   America after 1850. Although both sets of notes use
                              the term to emphasize a tendency toward vagrancy, it was common slang;
                              census takers of the era often called all travelers and migrant
                              workers Gypsies.56 Visitors or caseworkers who
                              wrote the Ishmael records equated the family's continuing
                              preference for nomadism with a biologically determined wanderlust, a
                              temptation irresistible to improvident vagrants burdened by easy
                                   charity,57 but it was more likely an economic
                              practice typical of seasonal workers.58
                              Improvidence - the inability or neglect to anticipate future needs -
                              was a target of McCulloch's charitable reforms, yet some
                              planning ahead might be inferred if the traveling families actually
                              returned to 
                                   Indianapolis
                               for public aid each winter.
                         According to the Indiana Notes, John and Betsy Ishmael's
                              grandchildren included Henry, "one of the most persistent of
                              the gypsying crowd," and France, who left his wife after she
                              lost her eyesight. "He 
                                   55Indiana Notes, 8-9, 25-26; ERO Notes, 92. These
                                        remarks are typical of the subjective nature of both sets of
                                        notes and the unfounded conclusions about the data
                                        collected.
                                   56Bart McDowell, Gypsies:
                                             Wanderers of the World (
                                             Washington
                                                  D.C.
                                        1970), 23. "Gypsy" was also
                                        used metaphorically to indicate a nonwhite person. Rafter,
                                             Creating Born Criminals, 88
                                        n2.
                                   57Benjamin C. Marsh, "Causes
                                        of Vagrancy and Methods of Eradication," Annals of the American Academy of Political
                                             and Social Science, 23 (May 1904), 38.
                                   58Marlene Sway, Familiar
                                             Strangers: Gypsy Life in 
                                                  America
                                              (
                                             Urbana
                                        , 
                                             Ill.
                                        , 1988), 112. It may also have been a matter of
                                        convenience. In Act I, Scene I of Madge Dishman's
                                        play "The Bridge," based on the
                                        Indianapolis Ishmaels and performed by the IUPUI University
                                        Theatre Department in December 1987, an Ishmael called
                                        Walker has this exchange with a local minister who visits
                                        the poor: Walker: Jist cause folks go to
                                             see their kin don't make'm gypsies.
                                             Rev Macklin: Why do you river people go traveling
                                             every spring? Walker: Hard to pull a wagon through
                                             snow and ice. So we go visitin' in good
                                             weather
                              
                               would go to 
                                   Illinois
                               with the gypsying crowds. .. . Twice she was forced to go
                              to the poorhouse because he would not live with her."59 Many individuals in the case histories, though
                              absent for long periods on gypsy trips, are also identified by the 
                                   Indianapolis
                               neighborhoods they called home. The Indiana Notes include
                              references to families living in a log house on Tennessee Street;
                              above Indiana Avenue on the bank of the canal; on the edge of Possum
                              Hollow; in "Dumptown," ownerless land behind a
                              cemetery near White
                                   River; in predominantly black Bucktown and Sleigho; in
                              tenements and houses of ill-fame; or in shacks or hovels in
                              "the haunts in the swampy ground along the river and
                                   creeks."60 Many lived in the area
                              near the city hospital (where Wishard Hospital now stands), the only
                              such facility open to nonwhites and the poor in the late 1800s.61 The neighborhood, near Military Park and once
                              the site of a Civil War staging ground and an area of severe smallpox
                              outbreak, "was regarded as a place to be avoided by all
                              decent people."62 The implication that
                              the poor posed a public health danger made the arguments for their
                              segregation more compelling,63 and when
                              institutionalization proved too costly, eventually bolstered the calls
                              for their eugenic sterilization. Poverty and social status became
                              "the phenotypic expressions of genotypic
                                   inferiority."64
                    
                    
                         THE 'CRIMINAL POOR'
                         Applicants for relief were often criticized in the Indiana Notes for
                              lacking shame about their needs and for their willingness to discuss
                                   
                                   59Indiana Notes, 10.
                                   60Ibid.; Dunn, Greater 
                                                  Indianapolis
                                             , 1:434; George S. Cottman,
                                        "Old-Time Slums of 
                                             Indianapolis
                                        ," Indiana Magazine of
                                             History, 7 (December 1911), 170-72.
                                   61Rafter wonders if Charles Davenport
                                        later "deliberately misquoted McCulloch in order to
                                        make the evidence against the Ishmaels even more
                                        damning" by excising the final phrase in
                                        McCulloch's "Another son in the third
                                        generation had a penitentiary record, and died of delirium
                                        tremens and went to the medical
                                        college" (McCulloch, "The Tribe of
                                        Ishmael," 51, italics added). The phrase actually
                                        refers to the common practice of sending some
                                        paupers' remains to the school for classroom
                                        dissection. Rafter, White Trash, 23
                                        n27.
                                   62ERO Notes, 120; Thurman B. Rice,
                                        "The 'Tribe of Ishmael'
                                        Study," in One Hundred Years of
                                             Medicine: 
                                                  Indianapolis
                                             , 1820-1920 [Monthly Bulletin of the
                                             Indiana State Board of Health, 55 (1952)],
                                        233.
                                   63Rafter, White
                                        Trash, 28.
                                   64Allen, "The Eugenics Record
                                        Office at 
                                             Cold Spring
                                                  Harbor
                                        ," 245.
                              
                              
                              
                                   An ERO photo of a house belonging to one of the
                                        Ishmaelites Estabrook and his colleagues at the ERO
                                        documented many Ishmaelite houses, stressing the public
                                        health risk of their unclean living conditions American
                                        Philosophical Society
                              
                               their circumstances with visitors
                              and caseworkers. One woman "had no scruples in asking for
                              charity, so utterly good-for-nothing was she, and so little did her
                              husband do for her, that she must have suffered sometimes for the
                              necessities of life."65 That her
                              suffering forced her to ask for help and that her self-disclosure was
                              required in order to receive assistance are not acknowledged. Some
                              needy applicants gave false names or addresses to get around charity
                              restrictions or to avoid home visits; their untruthfulness was
                              regarded with the same disdain as if they had been impostors, and
                              could result in equally swift denial of aid.66
                         The Indiana Notes also stigmatized the poor for their living
                                   conditions:67
                              "She was raised in dirt and the
                                   condition seemed natural to her."
                              "His home was always in some dark,
                                   filthy old tenement and he carried with him a smell so rank that
                                   it would not have been tolerated in any livery
                                   stable."
                              "She was frequently an applicant for
                                   charity, and, whether the result of her plans, or her habitual
                                   condition, she was invariably found to occupy some old hovel
                                   which would have been regarded unfit as a
                                   cow-shed."
                              "She lived in White Row [a slum on
                                        White
                                        River], which certainly does not speak well for
                                   her character."
                              "The family sunk lower and lower,
                                   and there were fewer efforts to clean up and consequently more
                                   dirt of the kind which characterizes the criminal
                                   poor."
                         
                              65Indiana Notes, 108-109.
                              66Descriptions of the families in the
                                   Indiana Notes were reconstructed after "the Township
                                   Trustee's office became more rigid in the enforcement of
                                   the rules against chronic paupers." Indiana Notes,
                                   72.
                              67Cleanliness was a particular concern of
                                   McCullochs. An undated news clipping stuck into his diary in
                                   early 1881 describes how he and other civic leaders proposed to
                                   build free bathhouses for the poor in White River. Based on similar
                                   structures in 
                                        Boston
                                   , the bathhouses were eventually erected along the
                                   canal at the southern edge of Military Park but burned down and
                                   were not replaced.
                         
                         
                         The Indiana Notes blamed dependence on charitable aid, rather than
                              poverty itself, for these environmental conditions.
                              "Misapplied charity is a millstone about the necks of those
                              to whom it is given, and (not entirely their fault either) drags them
                              down from a low level to one yet lower, -frequently to the lowest
                              possible level. ... A diet of pauper bread breaks down the best of
                              poor families, and the greatest unkindness to the poor is to encourage
                              them to ask and accept charity - something for nothing."68 The ERO Notes point instead to below-average
                              mental ability as the cause of the families' problems.
                              Estabrook argued that "scientific knowledge of
                              feeble-mindedness was meager and not at all common" in the
                              late nineteenth century. "It is very evident," he
                              wrote, "in view of the present day information concerning
                              mentally defective peoples . . . that the very great majority of the
                              Tribe men and women were high-grade feeble-minded folk." He
                              identified willingness to work as a trait linked to mental ability,
                              giving higher intelligence grades to family members who had steady
                                   employment.69
                         In the Indiana Notes even the military service performed by many of the
                              early Ishmaels and their associates could be seen as a negative
                              influence on their industriousness: "Truth told, Joe, as well
                              as the other members of [his] family who went into the army was nearly
                              ruined by it; for there they were cared for by the Government, and
                              thus they had no care upon their minds .... The drudgery of army life,
                              and the monotony of the camps, as well as the excitement of the actual
                              clash of arms, was suited to their natures; but the monotony of civil
                              life, coupled with the necessity of planning and thinking ahead . . .
                              was too great a task for such sluggish intellects, and so, on their
                              return from the war where they made good soldiers, they came back to
                              civil life where they certainly were not good citizens."70
                         On rare occasions in the Indiana Notes, the role of environment in the
                              behavior of the "criminal poor" is considered:
                                   It is a little strange that the several
                                   generations have so invariably produced a large number of
                                   criminals (social and civil), but like so many other matters, are
                                   apt to be attributed to 'heredity.' 
                                        68Indiana Notes, 43, 56, 63, 83,
                                             85.
                                        69ERO Notes, 252-53,
                                             257-59.
                                        70Ibid., 66.
                                   
                                   I regard this as erroneous,
                                   and I have only arrived at this conclusion after years of study
                                   of the conditions. Physical and mental conditions are inheritable
                                   conditions; morals are no more a matter of inheritance than
                                   shoes. . .. 'Blood will tell' is the common
                                   answer which condemns this class. It is the answer of selfishness
                                   or of ignorance of conditions. . . . Given good moral surround-
                                   ings, healthy conditions of civil life [a family] would have com-
                                   pared with the rest of the community else our civilization is a
                                   failure and we are all degenerating.71
                               Other comments acknowledged the role class played in
                              perpetuating poverty: One young woman, not a
                                   bad looking girl . .. might have been a good woman if she had
                                   been permitted by our social system. But she recognized the fact
                                   that her family was bad, her choice of husbands was poor, she had
                                   no education, and the standard of morality had never been known
                                   to her people. She knew the station assigned to her in life, and
                                   she did not complain. One man was "an anarchist
                              of course, and he has the instinctive, envious dislike, so
                              characteristic of his people, of anyone in a better condition than
                              himself." Therefore, "with people of this grade it
                              is not fair to draw too strict a line for morals and particeps criminis cannot always apply to them.
                                   "72
                         Weaknesses perceived in the Ishmaels' behavior and intelligence
                              were often described in the Indiana Notes with some attempt at levity.
                              "He was a lover of music, as was evidenced upon one occasion
                              when he was seen sitting in an outhouse performing on an old French
                              harp, his younger brothers sitting by him and drinking in the
                              harmonious outpouring." Another man "was formerly
                              one of a gang of hoodlums in the [city] hospital district. Afterwards
                              he became a ward politician." Of one woman, the 
                                   Indiana
                               note takers wrote, "[i]f she ever did any work
                              it is 
                                   71Ibid., 121-22.
                                   72Indiana Notes, 50, 51. For an
                                        examination of the ways the mythical concept of the
                                        "bad seed" has been perpetuated, see
                                        Rafter, Creating Born Criminals.
                              
                               still a secret." One man
                              was "very ignorant and very happy in his ignorance."
                              Another, a barber, "is something of a dude. Parts his hair in
                              the middle." One woman eloped with a fellow dubbed
                              "an equally precious scamp." Comments were just as
                              likely to be scathing in their insensitivity: One man "was
                              one of the most beastly and degraded of characters, and there was
                              probably nothing too vile for him to do that could be
                              suggested." Another was an "idle river
                              rat." One who lost an arm and a leg in a train accident was
                              "more unindustrious and shiftless than before."
                              Especially dismissive criticism was reserved for the women; most were
                              generally unchaste, engaged in incest or prostitution, or
                              "specifically diseased," a euphemism for sexually
                              transmitted infection. One was "mentally weak, but this may
                              have been the result of her vicious life or it may have been the cause
                              of her own degradation." Another was "a rather nice
                              old lady, everything considered." Yet another "made
                              many gypsy trips and was never happier than when tramping. That she
                              was a prostitute goes without saying."73
                         Such remarks typify the Indiana Notes, which lace benign facts with
                              innuendo, add insults to the injuries of poverty, and condemn morals
                              when there is no other information available. Estabrook's ERO
                              Notes delete some slurs but otherwise rely on vague attributions:
                              "he was spoken of as," "she was reputed to
                              have been," "they were considered to be."
                              The note takers' generalized conclusions demonstrate the lack
                              of scientific method in their records. "Assuming, as is the
                              rule in these pages when nothing is known to the contrary, that the
                              family was in no wise objectionable, the only explanation for the
                              entrance of this man in this book is upon the Emersonian theory that
                              sometimes all the virus of a family is drawn off in one
                              vial," say the Indiana Notes. "It has never been
                              charged that she was a prostitute but it was a life she knew all
                              about, as most of her associates were of the vilest possible
                              character." One woman is described as having been seen by
                              others cutting rings off the hands of victims killed in an explosion.
                              Of one family member "there is nothing known ... except that
                              he was a very worthless man with some bad habits, lazy, and some
                              vicious tendencies." Another woman "is lazy, dirty,
                              and untruthful, and I have never doubted but she was unchaste after
                              her marriage."74
                         
                              73Indiana Notes, 40, 73, 64, 18, 71-72, 46,
                                   26, 39, 119, 41, 25; ERO Notes, 168.
                              74Indiana Notes, 42, 44, 27, 38, 45; ERO
                                   Notes, 75.
                         
                         
                         Any sex outside of legally sanctioned marriage was regarded as immoral
                              and criminal in that era. Yet while "one of the strange
                              things in the history of the Ishmaels is that separations and divorces
                              were not so common as would be expected among such people,"
                              the families were also said to "monopolize the divorce
                              courts," where cases were seldom concluded because of the
                              petitioners' inability to pay for the proceedings and
                              lawyers. Nevertheless, the "laws governing marriage and
                              divorce ... are too lax ... [and] should be tightened," Frank
                              Wright wrote in his essay that appears in the ERO Notes.
                              "This stratum of society seems to thrive by neglect, and
                              cannot be crushed out by the laws which we have. Heroic treatment is
                              sometimes necessary to effect a cure for disease."75
                    
                    
                         RACIAL INTEGRITY
                         
                                   Indiana's
                               1842 prohibition against miscegenation was still in force
                              in the late 1800s to prevent the "amalgamation of whites and
                              blacks." A person with one black great-grandparent was
                              considered to be "colored" or
                                   "negro."76 Marriage between
                              a white person and a person of more than one-eighth "negro
                              blood" remained illegal in 
                                   Indiana
                               and many other states but some of the married couples
                              recorded in the Ishmael study had apparently skirted those laws. Center Township notetakers often included descriptions of
                              individuals' complexions in the charity records.77 The inclusion of these observations of
                              hereditary makeup alongside information such as criminal background or
                              marital history implied that race was somehow genetically linked to
                              pauperism, a significant inference in a city where the
                              "colored" population was growing rapidly.78 Some individuals are described as mulatto or
                              octoroon while others have "a trace of Negro blood";
                              some are "very dark" or
                                   "swarthy."79 One married
                              couple, he with "a trace" and she a mulatto, had a
                              "funny little yellow boy." One woman who was
                              "very white and 
                                   75Indiana Notes, 14; ERO Notes, 20, 39,
                                        40, 22, 21, from J. Frank Wright's presentation to
                                        the National Council on Charities and Correction,
                                        1890.
                                   76Thornbrough, Negro in 
                                                  Indiana
                                             , 126.
                                   77"Assumptions about native
                                        white superiority were both widespread and unselfconsciously
                                        expressed" during this era. Rafter, White Trash, 8.
                                   78In 
                                             Indianapolis
                                         in 1900, 9.4 percent of the population was
                                        black, a high ratio for big cities of the era. Thornbrough,
                                             Negro in 
                                                  Indiana
                                             , 229, quoting from the U.S.
                                        Census.
                                   79Indiana Notes.
                              
                               possessed very regular
                              features" had a sister whose "very fair white
                              skin" struck the note taker as a strange thing to find in
                              such a poor woman. Another woman, who lived with a mulatto man,
                              "would have been a white woman had she used soap." A
                              married couple lived on "a dirt street, with houses
                              approaching the shack type, negroes and whites living
                              together." One man was "a mulatto . . . born a slave
                              in 
                                   Virginia
                              , but in some manner secured his freedom. . . . His third
                              and last wife was a very black woman. She had a little property and
                              this was [his] motive for marrying her." Another man
                              "was a mulatto but seems to have owned a little
                              property." And another "was of much better mentality
                              than his wife though not of average ability even for a
                                   mulatto."80
                         Although ad hominem comments on race were deleted in the ERO Notes,
                              there is no question that Estabrook resumed study of the Ishmaels in
                              1915 because of their perceived value to eugenic arguments on racial
                              integrity. The materials he crafted in support of his theories on
                              feeblemindedness for his 1921 presentation to the Second International
                              Congress of Eugenics were archived at the Eugenics Record Office not
                              under "Criminality" or
                              "Mendicancy" (begging or vagrancy) but with files on
                              "Race," listed between "Negro" and
                              "American Indian-Negro."81 Where
                              the Indiana Notes had attempted to document a causal relationship
                              between pauperism and inbred degeneracy at the end of the nineteenth
                              century, the ERO Notes emphasized the social and economic costs to
                              twentieth-century society of unregulated procreation by the
                              "extremely prolific" lower classes.82 "The underlying condition of the whole Tribe is
                              seen to be feeble-mindedness," Estabrook asserted, which in
                              poor conditions causes "the anti-social reaction of
                              pauperism, crime, and prostitution.""83
                         Such assumptions minimized Estabrook's ability to see simple
                              survival as a motivation for at least some life choices. Men in the
                              study were criticized for the inefficiency of what little work they
                              could find hauling 
                                   80ERO Notes, 136.
                                   81Eugenics Record Office, Race Series I
                                        Trait Files, online at http://www.amphilsoc.org/library/
                                        mole/e/ero.htm#boxfolderl. "Names and place
                                        identifiers are removed from all personal photographs and
                                        pedigrees in the Archive," and photos showing
                                        people have been removed.
                                   82ERO Notes, 33. Estabrook inflates the
                                        size of the Tribe in 1888 to ten thousand individuals. Circa
                                        1920, "Hal is the only person belonging to the
                                        Tribe, with the exception of those who have been
                                        institutionalized because of mental defect or disturbance,
                                        whose power of procreation has been cut off by legal
                                        authorization on eugenic grounds," ibid.,
                                        172.
                                   83Ibid., 52-53.
                              
                               ashes or wood, cutting ice,
                              scavenging the dumps for marketable items, or scraping the grease off
                              the White River to
                              sell to the soap companies. Women who turned to prostitution - even
                              those who did so after their husbands had died or gone to prison -
                              were simply licentious, seeking to satisfy their own sexual desire
                              rather than to satiate their hunger.84
                         McCulloch's published materials also provided support for other
                              eugenicists' publications and policies on racial hygiene and
                              sterilization, including Charles B. Davenport's eugenics
                              report to the American Breeders Association and Dr. Harry C.
                              Sharp's "Indiana Plan."85 In the meantime, anti-miscegenation laws were reinforced
                              in 1905. Compulsory sterilization of the institutionalized
                              feebleminded became legal in 1907. Public relief reforms were enacted.
                              Hunting and fishing laws grew more restrictive. A vagrancy law was
                              passed in 1913. The swampy dump near the city hospital was filled in
                              to accommodate the growth of the Indiana University Medical Center
                              campus. Every man's hand really was against the Tribe of
                              Ishmael in 
                                   Indianapolis
                              , and so was nature: the White River broke through its levees in
                              March 1913 and washed away any makeshift homes still in its path. Yet
                              while Estabrook acknowledged that the Ishmael families were largely
                              dispersed or assimilated by 1920, he nevertheless asserted that they
                              were "still as dangerous to society from the eugenic
                              standpoint," so long as the feebleminded among them continued
                              to reproduce with others of the same mental ability. These
                              feebleminded individuals, he wrote, could be easily recognized by
                              their un- or underemployment; low income; history of
                              institutionalization; history of application for relief; lack of
                              training or education; below average mentality; and laziness,
                              shiftlessness, improvidence, and lack of ambition. Estabrook believed
                              that preventing procreation by such persons would eliminate many
                              social ills, including the problem of poverty itself.86
                         The ideological impact of family pedigree studies such as "The
                              Tribe of Ishmael," writes science historian Garland E. Allen,
                              persisted 
                                   84Ibid., 203, 227.
                                   85Davenport, "Report of the
                                        Committee on Eugenics"; H. C. Sharp, "The
                                        Indiana Plan," in Proceedings of the
                                             American Prison Association, 36 (1909), 36-48. See
                                        also J. N. Hurty, "The Indiana Movement"
                                        [abstract], Indiana Medical Journal, 26
                                        (February 1908), 310-11; Thurman B. Rice, Racial Hygiene: A Practical Discussion of Eugenics and
                                             Race Culture (
                                             New York
                                        , 1929); and Edwin W. Bishop, "Eugenics
                                        and the Church," Eugenics: A Journal
                                             of Race Betterment, 2 (1929), 14-19.
                                   86ERO Notes, 34, 230-31, 252.
                              
                               until "academic
                              geneticists began to come to the fore over the exaggerated claims
                              about genetic differences between races and ethnic groups that emerged
                              as a result of the immigration debates" following World War
                                   I.87 In 1920 the Eugenics Record Office
                              became part of the Department of Genetics at the Carnegie Institution,
                              which ceased funding the ERO in 1939. No scholar re-examined the
                              Ishmael studies after the time of the ERO's closing in 1944
                              until the 1977 publication of historian Hugo Leaming's essay
                              on the Tribe of Ishmael, which appeared in a collection of articles
                              about ethnic group survival in the Midwest. Leaming's retelling of
                              the Ishmael story relied heavily on the Indiana Notes, and asserted
                              that the antagonism aimed at the Ishmaels seemed so excessive that it
                              "can only be explained by racism" in response to the
                              intermingling and intermarriages of whites with other racial
                                   groups.88
                    
                    
                         A PEDIGREE OF POVERTY
                         Researchers continue to read between the lines of the family pedigree
                              studies for evidence of more than name-calling, yet one by one the
                              myths behind the stories are being exposed. Paleontologist Stephen Jay
                              Gould, who studied various editions of The Kallikak
                                   Family, a pedigree study first published in 1912, found
                              evidence that the photos had been altered to make some family members
                              look more feebleminded.89 Details of a study of
                              the Cullers family in 
                                   Putnam
                                        County
                              , 
                                   Indiana
                              , conducted by caseworkers from the Eugenics Record Office
                              in 1916 and discovered by former Indiana State Archivist Robert Horton
                              in 1992, were revealed in the Indianapolis Star in
                              1996. Members of the family interviewed for the article had strikingly
                              different memories of beloved ancestors who 
                                   87Allen, "Social Origins of
                                        Eugenics," 250.
                                   88Leaming, "The Ben Ishmael
                                        Tribe," 121. Leading traced his own ancestry to a
                                        tri-racial isolate group; his personal interest in black
                                        nationalism prompted him to look at a possible connection
                                        between the Ishmaels and African Islam. It is easy to see
                                        how inferences associated with a biblical tribe of Midianite
                                        outcasts might have fueled sentiment against the 
                                             Indianapolis
                                         Ishmaelites, but Nathaniel Deutsch, a religious
                                        studies scholar who has recently studied the families, finds
                                        no historical merit in an Islamic connection and traces the
                                        Ishmael surname to seventeenth-century 
                                             Wales
                                        . E-mail messages to the author, Wednesday,
                                        October 11, and Friday, October 13, 2006.
                                   89MHenry H. Goddard, The
                                             Kallikak Family: A Study in the Heredity of
                                             Feeble-Mindedness (
                                             New York
                                        , 1912); Stephen Jay Gould, The
                                             Mismeasure of Man, rev. ed. (
                                             New York
                                        , 1996). Goulds assertions about the photos have
                                        been challenged. Goddard's alleged deceptions are
                                        also detailed in J. David Smith, Minds Made
                                             Feeble: The Myth and Legacy of the Kallikaks (
                                             Austin
                                        , 
                                             Tex.
                                        , 1985).
                              
                              had been labeled undesirable by the
                                   ERO.90 Similarly, a chance discovery in 2001
                              of a poorhouse graveyard in 
                                   Ulster
                                        County
                              , 
                                   New
                                        York
                              , led investigators to old records showing the real
                              identities of the individuals Richard Dugdale studied. Many of the
                              Jukes were not criminals or defectives and some were actually
                              prominent members of society. Yet Arthur Estabrook had reviewed
                              Dugdale's data in 1915 and pronounced the Jukes a continuing
                              threat to society.91
                         As a profile of poverty and racism in early 
                                   Indianapolis
                              , the records on the Ishmaels have great value to
                              historians, genealogists, and sociologists. Oscar McCulloch's
                              nineteenth-century works are essential to studies of charity
                              organization and reform; viewed alongside Estabrook's later
                              revision, their value in support of the growing emphasis on negative
                              eugenics in the 1920s becomes clearer. Because both sets of notes
                              contain errors, inconsistencies, innuendo, and conjecture, they lack
                              the objectivity and rigorous methodology needed to make the data truly
                              useful to genetic science. They nevertheless constitute one of the
                              most influential family pedigree studies of the eugenics era,
                              "an affirmation of class position and entitlement"
                              that used Mendelian laws "to map social worth" and
                              "used the cover of science to blame the victims for their own
                                   problems."92 "The Tribe of
                              Ishmael" survives as a loaded label for 
                                   Indianapolis's
                               most unwanted - the dependent, unacculturated, outcast
                              Others, destined to wander in search of a better life. Despite its
                              intended implication, first in the work of McCulloch and later in that
                              of Estabrook, the epithet endures today as a reminder that race is not
                              a marker for potential and poverty is not written into DNA.
                         
                              90Kate Wiltrout, "Long-Forgotten
                                   Files Tell a Tale of Social Policy Gone Wrong," Indianapolis Star, February 25, 1996, pp. 1,
                                   8.
                              91Scott Christianson, "Bad Seed or
                                   Bad Science: The Story of the Notorious Jukes Family,"
                                        New York Times, February 8, 2003, pp. B9,
                                   B11.
                              92Rafter, White Trash, 16,
                                   6; Allen, "Social Origins of Eugenics."
                         
                    
               

               
               
                     "An Aggressive Warfare" Eli Farmer and Methodist
                         Revivalism in Early 
                              Indiana
                         
                    RILEY B. CASE
                    Though the Catholics came to 
                              Indiana
                          first, it was the growth of the Methodists which dominated the
                         history of religion in 
                              Indiana
                          in the first half of the 1800s. .... Preaching is what made
                         the Methodists grow - preaching that was regular, frequent, and exciting
                         .... Early Methodist preaching was generally successful; the morale of
                         Methodist preachers was generally high. They reviewed the rising membership
                         statistics and concluded "The Lord of Hosts is with us." 
                    L. C. Rudolph, Hoosier Faiths1
                    In 1820, Eli Farmer, a child of the 
                              Kentucky
                          frontier and now a riverboat worker with his brother, was
                         spiritually reclaimed from a "backslidden" religious life
                         at a Methodist campmeeting along the Ohio River. Like thousands of other
                         Methodist converts, his life would be shaped by the church's
                         practices and doctrines; like hundreds of other young men, he stepped
                         beyond the mourner's bench and the foot of the altar to take up a
                         call as a circuit preacher. Until his break with the denomination in 1839,
                              
                              Riley B. Case is a retired pastor in the North Indiana
                                   Conference of the United Methodist Church. He has written a
                                   number of articles on Methodist history and is author of the
                                   book, Evangelical and Methodist: A Popular
                                        History (2004). He would like to thank Mr. Robert
                                   Coolman of 
                                        Valparaiso
                                   , 
                                        Indiana
                                   , who introduced him to the Eli Farmer manuscript.
                                   Mr. Coolman is the great-great-great-great grandson of Mr.
                                   Farmer. Use of the Eli Farmer manuscript is courtesy of the Lilly
                                   Library, Indiana University, Bloomington.
                              1L. C. Rudolph, Hoosier Faiths:
                                        A History of 
                                             Indiana's
                                         Churches and Religious Groups (
                                        Bloomington
                                   , 
                                        Ind.
                                   , 1995), 13.
                              INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, 104 (March 2008) C 2008, Trustees
                                   of Indiana University.
                         
                          Methodism would dominate Eli
                         Farmer's life, and he would make important contributions to the
                         group's growth on the midwestern frontier.2
                    Farmer (1794-1881) was officially a Methodist circuit rider for only nine
                         years. He was not one of the Methodist "authorities,"
                         having never attained the office of elder.3 Probably
                         because he left and started a new denomination, he is mentioned only in
                         passing in histories of early 
                              Indiana
                          Methodism. In an early history of 
                              Monroe
                                   County
                          he appears as a 
                              Bloomington
                          businessman in the 1840s, and a founding member of the
                         town's Old Settler's Club in the 1850s. In addition, he
                         was also a farmer, an editor, a Whig, a Republican, a freemason, and a
                         state senator.4 As a young man, he had trained as a
                         soldier during the War of 1812 but never saw battle; late in life, he
                         helped raise a Civil War regiment and served as a volunteer chaplain.
                         Precisely because of his ordinary stature, however, he provides an
                         excellent example of a typical frontier circuit rider (whose average length
                         of service in 
                              Indiana
                          was 12 years), who gave over several years of his life for the
                         preaching of the gospel to the exclusion of almost all else and then, worn
                         down by a variety of factors, returned to a more ordinary way of life.
                    Eli Farmer began his autobiography in 1874 when he was eighty years old,
                         "as a memento for my children." If the manuscript is an
                              
                              2The first serious history of 
                                        Indiana
                                    Methodism was E C. Holliday, Life and
                                        Times of Rev Allen Wiley. A. M. (1853); followed by
                                   William C. Smith, 
                                             Indiana
                                         Miscellany (1867); S. R. Beggs, Pages from the Early History of the West and
                                        North-West, (1868); E C. Holliday, 
                                             Indiana
                                         Methodism (1873); J. C. Smith, Reminiscences on Early Methodism in 
                                             Indiana
                                         (1879); and John L. Smith, 
                                             Indiana
                                         Methodism (1892). A series of conference
                                   histories were written throughout the 1900s. See, for example,
                                   William Warren Sweet, Circuit Rider Days in 
                                             Indiana
                                         (1916), and A History of the
                                        North 
                                             Indiana
                                         Conference (1917). Nathan O. Hatch, in The Democratizaation of American Christianity (
                                        New Haven
                                   , 
                                        Conn.
                                   , 1989) understands Methodism within the development
                                   of popular religious movements that flourished in the new
                                   republic. See also Hatch, "The Puzzle of American
                                   Methodism," Church History, 63 (June
                                   1994), 175-89. Other studies which take a new look at Methodism
                                   include Nathan Hatch and John H. Wigger, eds., Methodism and the Shaping of American Culture (
                                        Nashville
                                   , 
                                        Tenn.
                                   , 2001); Wigger, Taking Heaven by Storm:
                                        Methodism and the Rise of Popular Christianity in 
                                             America
                                         (
                                        New
                                             York
                                   , 1998); and David Hempton, Methodism:
                                        Empire of the Spirit (
                                        New Haven
                                   , 
                                        Conn.
                                    , 2005). Methodism in 
                                        Indiana
                                    is understudied. Thomas D. Hamm in "Heaven
                                   and Hell on the Wabash: the State of 
                                        Indiana
                                    Religious History," The State
                                        of 
                                             Indiana
                                         History 2000, ed. Robert M. Taylor, Jr. (
                                        Indianapolis
                                   , 2001), 229-30, asserts that "
                                        Indiana
                                    has not been a critical locale for the history of
                                   faith in the 
                                        United
                                             States
                                   ," instead being a "sideline to
                                   more critical events taking place elsewhere." The
                                   assertion is worth challenging.
                              3Farmer's own term for the
                                   Methodist leadership.
                              4Charles Blanchard, ed., Counties of 
                                             Morgan
                                        , 
                                             Monroe
                                        , and 
                                             Brown
                                        , 
                                             Indiana
                                        . Historical and Biographical (
                                        Chicago
                                   , 1884), 397-98, 459; A Biographical
                                        Directory of the Indiana General Assembly, 1816-1899 (
                                        Indianapolis
                                   , 1980), 1:123.
                         
                         indication of what he valued in his long
                         life, Farmer remembered himself foremost as a preacher and evangelist.
                         There is no mention of the Masonic Lodge or of the Old Settlers'
                         Club in his autobiography. He hardly mentions his life as editor, or his
                         political philosophy as a state senator.5
                    This article will follow the years that Eli Farmer spent as a Methodist
                         circuit rider, using some of his experiences to discuss features of
                         Methodism that contributed to the denomination's rapid growth in
                         early 
                              Indiana
                         .
                    
                         
                                   INDIANA
                               METHODISM AND THE WESTERN REVIVAL
                         Methodism was, in many ways, a new religion for a new nation, and most
                              Americans did not know what to do with the early preachers who arrived
                              on their shores. Jesse Lee, the first preacher appointed to New England,
                              arrived in 
                                   Boston
                               in 1790, where he began his career by standing on a
                              gambling table on the Boston Common and singing Methodist hymns.6 This approach to religion, with its lay
                              ministers, public preaching, and class meetings, was scorned by
                              Anglicans, Calvinists, and Unitarians alike. But Lee and his comrades
                              were persistent, preaching anywhere they could find an audience, and a
                              Methodist foothold was soon established.
                         The western frontier presented a different kind of challenge. Religion
                              was almost non-existent in the scattered settlements west of the
                                   Appalachians. In her study of early 
                                   Kentucky
                              , Ellen Eslinger describes churches before 1800 as
                              suffering from stagnation, slumber, competition, and lack of
                              leadership. Settlers were seen as lawless and immoral, unrestrained by
                              the culture and polite society of the East.7
                         
                              5The account of Eli Farmer is taken from his
                                   unpublished autobiography, part of the Farmer Collection in the
                                   Lilly Library, Indiana University, Bloomington, hereafter
                                   referred to as Farmer, "Autobiography." The
                                   manuscript is 283 pages and, based on internal clues, was
                                   finished several years after its inception. Biographies and
                                   autobiographies of early Methodist preachers include Donald L.
                                   Parman, ed., Memoirs of Samuel Rugus Harshman
                                   (1907); Window to a Changed World The Personal
                                        Memoirs of William Graham (
                                        Indianapolis
                                   , 1998); David L. Kimbrough, Reverend
                                        Joseph Tarkington Methodist Circuit Rider from Frontier
                                        Evangelism to Refined Religion (
                                        Knoxville
                                   , 
                                        Tenn.
                                   , 1997); and Fletcher Thomas, A Sketch
                                        of the Life and Labors of Rev Fletcher Thomas (
                                        Dayton
                                   , 
                                        Ohio
                                   , 1907).
                              Jesse Lee, A Short History of the Methodists (
                                        Baltimore
                                   , 
                                        Md.
                                   , 1810), 162.
                              7Ellen Eslinger, Citizens of
                                        Zion: The Social Origins of Camp Meeting Revivalism (
                                        Knoxville
                                   , 
                                        Tenn.
                                   , 1999), 162-84.
                         
                         
                         This would soon change. In 1801, at a place in 
                                   Kentucky
                               south of 
                                   Louisville
                               called Cane
                                   Ridge, an outdoor sacramental meeting planned by
                              Presbyterians turned into a frenzied revival that lasted for days and
                              attracted a crowd of tens of thousands. The meeting introduced a new
                              phenomenon almost immediately labeled the
                              "campmeeting." The format was an outdoor meeting of
                              several days duration. The features of the campmeeting included
                              emotional displays of religious fervor, extemporaneous preaching
                              directed toward conversion and spiritual renovation, and spirited
                              singing. Cane
                                   Ridge campmeeting was a major event in the launching
                              of a prolonged period of religious intensity, variously labeled the
                              Western Revival or the Second Great Awakening.8
                              Both its date and location were significant for the history of
                              religion in 
                                   Indiana
                              , as the revival began at the very time at which the
                              territory was being opened for white settlement.
                         Presbyterians soon became reluctant to promote campmeetings, which were
                              too emotional and often too free of clerical control for their taste.
                              Methodist preachers had no such objections and soon the new form
                              spread, back East to the middle states around Chesapeake Bay
                              and throughout the western frontier.9 In the West,
                              many of those who attended the revivals arrived with little religious
                              motivation. Campmeetings were community gatherings which broke up the
                              monotony of frontier life, provided entertainment and a place for
                              people to meet, and allowed the public expression of emotional excess
                              (across social and gender lines, and sometimes across racial lines as
                              well).
                         In 
                                   Indiana
                              , campmeetings arrived with the very first circuit riders,
                              as early as 1801. According to one source, the first meeting was held
                              that year near 
                                   Springville
                              , later the county seat of 
                                   Clark
                                        County
                              .10 After this, 
                                   8There were a number of precursors in 
                                             Kentucky
                                         and in other parts of the country, including an
                                        outdoor meeting at 
                                             Logan
                                        , 
                                             Kentucky
                                        , held just a few weeks before. Cane
                                             Ridge, however, is still generally regarded
                                        as the beginning of the campmeeting movement and the
                                        revival. See Paul K. Conkin, Cane
                                                  Ridge: 
                                                  America's
                                              Pentecost (
                                             Madison
                                        , 
                                             Wis.
                                        , 1990); and Peter Cartwrights description of
                                        the proceedings in Autobiography of Peter
                                             Cartwright (
                                             Cincinnati
                                        , 1856), 30.
                                   9See William H. Williams, "The
                                        Attraction of Methodism: The Delmarva Peninsula
                                        as a Case Study, 1769-1820," Perspectives on American Methodism, ed. Russell
                                        E. Richey et al. (
                                             Nashville
                                        , 
                                             Tenn.
                                        , 1993), 31-46; Russell E. Richey, "The
                                        Formation of American Methodism: The Chesapeake Refraction
                                        of Wesleyanism," Methodism and the
                                             Shaping of American Culture, ed. Nathan O. Hatch
                                        and John H. Wigger (
                                             Nashville
                                        , 
                                             Tenn.
                                        , 2001), 197-221.
                                   10Territorial Days of 
                                                  Indiana
                                              1800-1816 (
                                             Indianapolis
                                        , 1950), 25. See also William Warren Sweet,
                                        "Early Methodist Circuits in 
                                             Indiana
                                        ," Indiana Magazine of
                                             History, 10 (December 1914), 359-68.
                              
                              campmeetings became a regular
                              feature of circuit life, and by 1809 Bishop Francis Asbury recorded in
                              his journal that seventeen were held in the Indiana district of the
                              Western Conference.11
                         From contemporary accounts, the early 
                                   Indiana
                               campmeetings sound very much like that at Cane Ridge. 
                                   Indiana
                               circuit rider S. R. Beggs was converted at an 1812
                              campmeeting at Jacob's campgrounds, seven miles north of 
                                   Louisville
                              , amid shouts of joy that arose
                                   like the "sounds of many waters,"
                                   "Glory to God in the highest!" Multiplied as
                                   they were, by scores till two hundred were converted. Among these
                                   seven of us were licensed to preach, the most of whom entered the
                                   itinerant work. Beggs went on to explain more about the
                              campmeeting: Some laughed so excessively and
                                   so long that it seemed as though they would literally
                                   "die laughing." Bending backward as far as they
                                   could, they would laugh at the top of their voice, would continue
                                   till they well-nigh lost breath...till completely exhausted they
                                   would fall down in a swoon. The "jerks" were
                                   also very common in the prayer meetings, particularly among the
                                   women. Sometimes three or four were affected at once, being
                                   thrown flat on the floor, and when forced to their feet by a
                                   couple of strong men, "jerked" irresistibly
                                   back and forth. Often have I seen a frail woman surpass the
                                   utmost strength of two strong men.12
                         The Methodists, who believed that conversion was more important than the
                              outward trappings of religion, were in no hurry to build buildings.
                              Their willingness to use homes as places of worship worked in their
                              favor. Settlers on the frontier, religious or not, would usually
                              welcome a preacher who could find his way to their little clearing,
                              stay overnight in 
                                   11October 1, 1807 entry, The Journal and Letters of Francis Asbury (
                                             Nashville
                                        , 
                                             Tenn.
                                        , 1958), 2:616. Asbury records information
                                        supplied by his preachers. Given the paucity of Methodists
                                        in 
                                             Indiana
                                        , or population in general in 1809, seventeen
                                        campmeetings seems a large number.
                                   12S. R. Beggs, Pages From
                                             the Early History of the West and North-West (
                                             Cincinnati
                                        , 1868), 16-17.
                              
                              their cabin, bring them some news
                              of the outside world, and share the gospel in a way that spoke to even
                              the most uneducated and poor among them. While the message of the
                              Methodist circuit rider was thus directed at individuals, families,
                              and small groups of settlers, preachers could also rely on the much
                              larger gatherings of the campmeetings that drew hundreds and often
                              thousands of people together. The first Methodist "meeting
                              house" in 
                                   Indiana
                               was probably erected about 1808; the following year
                              alone, seventeen campmeetings took place in the same region.
                    
                    
                         THE LIFE OF ELI FARMER
                         Eli Farmer's father fought under General Anthony Wayne in the
                              western Indian campaigns. When he returned to 
                                   Virginia
                              , he met fourteen-year-old Sarah Rice, whom he married and
                              took to the wilderness of 
                                   Kentucky
                               (in part because of the families' opposition to
                              the marriage). There Eli was born in 1794, the second of six
                              children.
                         Eli's early life reads like an adventure novel. As a boy, he
                              narrowly escaped death in an accident caused by runaway oxen. His
                              parents' home was burned twice by Indians. When his father
                              lost his property to a swindler, the despondent man turned to whiskey,
                              and with the whiskey came fighting. Eli and his brother and his mother
                              kept the family going through times of poverty. The family moved
                              frequently, always looking for a better opportunity, and eventually
                              returned to 
                                   Virginia
                               upon the death of Eli's wife's
                              father.
                         At age 18, Eli attended his first school and learned to read and write.
                              In one account, Farmer led a student rebellion when the teacher
                              proposed not to give the class a "treat" (time off)
                              for "the holiday." The teacher was physically
                              overpowered and tied to a bench until he capitulated.
                              Farmer's first contact with religion came at the age of 19,
                              when he attended a campmeeting in 
                                   Virginia
                              , probably out of curiosity. The messages troubled him,
                              and he began to sense his own sin and his need for God: While laboring with these feelings (O wretched
                                   man that I am) and while on my knees, I felt that god quenched me
                                   by his spirit, my load of guilt fell off, the Savior on the cross
                                   appeared before me! Before me! Just before me! My light having
                                   thus come like lightning, and I arose from my knees rejoicing in
                                   the love of God.13
                              
                                   
                                        13Farmer,
                                        "Autobiography," 22.
                              
                              The rest of the family was not as
                              taken by his conversion as Eli was. His parents refused his offer to
                              hold "family prayers." Apparently there was no
                              Methodist class in the community, and with his new-found faith
                              faltering, Eli heard of another campmeeting and traveled to 
                                   Pennsylvania
                               to be a part of it. His faith was revived by the
                              preaching, and he committed himself to helping others ("I
                              worked almost constantly at the altar").14 Like many of the early meetings, the gathering was
                              marked by emotional excess. Farmer recalled having to restrain one man
                              who was shedding his clothes because he was on his way to heaven and
                              the Bible taught, "take nothing for your journey."
                              The year was 1813.
                         Eli's conversion was short-lived. Without religious
                              encouragement, he slipped into his old ways and found himself in a
                              "backslidden condition." The terminology is
                              significant. Presbyterians and Baptists did not
                              "backslide." As Calvinists they believed they were
                              chosen as the elect and were therefore secure in their salvation.
                              Methodists, with their understanding of "free grace"
                              (free will), were free not only to receive salvation but also to lose
                              it. For the next seven years, Eli moved from one job to another. He
                              entered the army in 1814 but encountered no British soldiers, and he
                              spent much of his time participating in pranks and fighting among
                              fellow soldiers. His time of service ended just as his regiment was
                              being deployed to defend 
                                   Washington
                              .
                         Few of the people who entered Farmer's life at that time were
                              "religious." The men were Indian fighters,
                              hard-drinkers, and frequently physically violent. Farmer joined in
                              some of their activities, but even as a backslider, he did not swear
                              or drink whiskey. He did, however, frequently resort to trickery,
                              lying, and especially fighting. Upon returning to 
                                   Kentucky
                              , Farmer encountered a string of
                              "bullies," "bad fellows,"
                              "enemies," and "wicked men," among
                              whom one's standing was best 
                                   14Farmer's reference to the
                                        altar is an indication of how quickly campmeeting
                                        adaptations were working their way into Methodist (and
                                        evangelical) practice and theology. Within months, perhaps
                                        weeks, after Cane Ridge in 1801 the
                                        "altar," and the theology which
                                        accompanied it, had been introduced into revival culture.
                                        Methodist "altar" preaching redirected the
                                        theological emphasis of worship from the act of God to the
                                        response of the individual. Preaching was directed toward
                                        decision-making and the altar became the place where
                                        decisions were made. In practice, the
                                        "altar" could be a railing, a bench, a
                                        stump, or even a spot in the grass. The altar call was an
                                        appeal for persons to come forward to the designated area
                                        and offer themselves to God. The altar experience was the
                                        great equalizer: social, racial, gender, economic
                                        distinctions held no significance. As campmeetings became
                                        more organized, the altar service became a special service
                                        within the larger meeting. The whole area around the altar
                                        became a space where penitents were prayed for and
                                        encouraged until they experienced salvation.
                              
                               established by physical prowess.
                              Farmer justified his fighting as a necessary effort to "prove
                              his manhood." One of his fights introduced him to the young
                              Sam Houston, who won the contest and left Farmer with two broken ribs.
                              In another battle, Farmer recalled, he nearly killed a man.15
                         In 1820 Eli and his brother were bringing grindstones down the Ohio River for
                              sale. A harrowing experience with a runaway raft left Farmer
                              dissatisfied with his life and convicted of his sinful condition. When
                              the boat arrived at 
                                   Louisville
                              , Farmer determined to look up the famous Methodist
                              preacher Henry B. Bascom. On Saturday he bought cloth and sewed
                              himself a pair of "pantaloons"; on Sunday morning he
                              attended Bascom's church, but it was a disillusioning
                              experience. The preacher was wearing the "most fashionable
                              apparel," the "violation of what,"
                              according to Farmer, "I then esteemed the proprieties and
                              decencies of religious life."16
                              Disappointed with the Methodists but still seeking spiritual
                              fulfillment, Farmer sought out the Baptists, and traveled for ten days
                              with a Baptist preacher, but he was unconvinced by Calvinist
                              doctrine.
                         In despair, Farmer then sought out another Methodist campmeeting, this
                              one "several miles above 
                                   Louisville
                              ." Before he reached the site he met a group of
                              women with whom he shared his "aching void" and his
                              predilection to sin, especially fighting. One of the women exhorted
                              him to go directly to the altar to be prayed for. Farmer went but
                              initially felt uncomfortable because of "strange scenes and
                              motley throngs" (probably a reference to emotional excess).
                              Finding no peace, he began to weep, sure that he was going to hell.
                              Then he considered that perhaps God wanted him to go to hell to preach
                              to sinners, and he responded that he was willing to do so. With that
                              he broke into uncontrollable laughter,17 and peace
                              came. Farmer spent a sleepless night "holding sweet communion
                              with my appeased God."18 The next day he
                              "gave his hand to the preacher" as the sign of a
                              forgiven sinner and then jumped on a bench and began to exhort others.
                              Later the same day he began to 
                                   15Farmer,
                                        "Autobiography," 66-67.
                                   16Bascom was known as a great preacher,
                                        and was eventually elected a bishop. Even at this early
                                        date, there is evidence of tension within Methodism between
                                        respectability and a populism (represented by Farmer) which
                                        resisted respectability as a form of worldliness.
                                   17Uncontrollable laughter was a common
                                        phenomenon in early Methodist campmeetings.
                                   18Farmer,
                                        "Autobiography," 78ff.
                              
                               preach, telling God that if he had
                              "success" it would serve as a sign that God wanted
                              him to preach.
                         "Success" for Farmer, as for all Methodist preachers,
                              meant conversions, or "souls." The passion for souls
                              must be understood as a crucial motivating factor in the dynamics of
                              early Methodism. This desire for souls also helps to explain
                              Methodism's egalitarian nature: because Christ had died for
                              all, believers should make no distinction between rich and poor, black
                              and white, male and female. At the first uniting conference of
                              Methodism in 1784, preachers were charged as follows: You have nothing to do but to save souls.
                                   Therefore spend and be spent in this work. . . . Observe! It is
                                   not your business only to preach so many times, and to take care
                                   of this or that society: but to save as many souls as you can; to
                                   bring as many sinners as you possibly can to repentance, and with
                                   all your power, to built them up in that holiness without which
                                   they cannot see the Lord.19
                         Farmer "took a very active part at the altar in laboring with
                              the mourners" the next day. Preaching to a young couple whom
                              he considered to be as wicked as anyone in his acquaintance, Farmer
                              bargained with God that "[i]f He would convert these people,
                              I would take such conversions as an indication that was my duty to
                              preach the gospel." They were converted, and Farmer committed
                              to preaching as his calling from that day forward. After the
                              campmeeting, Farmer gave witness to his mother, who "came out
                              brightly on the Lord's side," and then to his
                              family's neighbors, most of whom were Baptist and considered
                              the new preacher "entirely too enthusiastic."20
                         After his re-conversion Farmer, without outside encouragement or
                              instruction, began to travel to surrounding settlements to preach.
                              When his preaching did not result in any saved souls, he concluded
                              that he could not preach in an area where he was so well-known. He
                              settled his 
                                   19This quote is taken from the 1798 Discipline, p. 59.
                                   20Farmer,
                                        "Autobiography."
                                        "Enthusiasm" in religion was not a
                                        compliment. The term was used for persons who, because of
                                        psychological needs, ignorance, or manipulation, were in an
                                        uncontrolled state. During the first Methodist revivals in 
                                             England
                                        , John Wesley was continually defending his
                                        followers against the charge of enthusiasm; the same charge
                                        was made in 
                                             America
                                         about revival converts.
                              
                               affairs, left money with his
                              mother for her care, and in 1820 crossed the Ohio River into 
                                   Indiana
                              , a place "less familiar."
                         Farmer's first stop was 
                                   Bloomington
                              , where he soon became aware of a need for the next step
                              in his religious development: I was
                                   struggling for what the Methodists call
                                   "sanctification" or "full
                                   redemption." I would fast and pray almost constantly,
                                   and I felt so wretched, that I could scarcely rest day or night.
                                   My convictions became so deep and solemn that I fairly loathed my
                                   own nature. At this time a campmeeting came on above 
                                        Spencer
                                    a few miles.21
                         For Methodists, entire sanctification was the act of God that cleansed
                              the heart from all sin. The doctrine would be much more important (and
                              more controversial) fifty years later, when it became the
                              distinguishing mark of the holiness movement. But even in
                              Farmer's time it was part of the spiritual progression taught
                              by Methodists. At 
                                   Spencer
                               Eli Farmer received his sanctification
                              "experience," complete with visions and the
                              conviction that he could now love others with a pure heart.22 He moved to the town and boarded with a
                              new-found friend, with whom he also started a Methodist
                              "class."
                         But even with sanctification, Farmer was not at peace. He had come to 
                                   Indiana
                               believing he should preach to the Indians, but also
                              wanting to marry and to be "secure in life." Farmer
                              married Matilda, a "pious, holy woman," purchased
                              land three miles west of 
                                   Bloomington
                              , and began "grubbing." Meanwhile his
                              adventures continued: he nearly drowned in a swollen river; he
                              encountered a "panther"; and with a group of
                              friends, all dressed like Indians, he scared off vandals intending to
                              rob an Indian grave to obtain skeletons for medical studies.23
                         Another campmeeting presented another spiritual crisis. This particular
                              meeting was held in conjunction with a quarterly conference, 
                                   21Farmer,
                                        "Autobiography," 85.
                                   22Wigger, Taking Heaven by
                                             Storm, in the chapter "A Boiling Hot
                                        Religion" (pp. 104-124), recounts that enthusiasm
                                        was not just emotional outbursts, but also included
                                        prophetic dreams, visions, supernatural impressions, and
                                        various forms of mysticism. These direct revelations served
                                        to undercut the authority of tradition, scripture, and
                                        church.
                                   23Farmer claimed that one of the body
                                        snatchers (otherwise unidentified) was later elected
                                        governor of 
                                             Indiana
                                        .
                              
                              and Farmer, without application and
                              to his surprise, was presented with a license to
                              "exhort." Instead of seeing an affirmation of his
                              calling, Farmer became disturbed and refused the license. The decision
                              provoked inner conflict, and Farmer began to backslide, evidenced by a
                              fight after a "flash of anger" overcame him. He
                              "whipped" his adversary but was so full of guilt he
                              went before the church and asked for a church trial. He was exonerated
                              but found himself in spiritual darkness.
                         Whenever Eli Farmer experienced a spiritual crisis (which was
                              frequently), he looked for another campmeeting. In a denomination with
                              an emphasis on "experience," religious life was
                              often a cycle of highs and lows, and there was always a need for
                              revivals. So in 1823 Farmer sought out a meeting near 
                                   Bedford
                              , determined that if God endowed him with the power he had
                              once known he would officially become a preacher, "even
                              though the attempt would slay me." Once again, the
                              campmeeting provided the necessary spiritual rejuvenation. Farmer was
                              "reclaimed and the spirit returned to me. I determined to cut
                              loose from the world. I told my wife I had to go into the work
                              now." But Matilda, who had always encouraged him, now
                              suddenly asked him to delay. A few weeks later she became ill and
                              died.
                         After his wife's death, Farmer began to preach in 
                                   Greene
                                        County
                               without denominational authorization or supervision.
                              Methodism had, in theory and in practice, a form of church government,
                              with bishops presiding over large geographical areas that were
                              subdivided, in turn, into the care of elders, deacons, preachers, and
                              exhorters. But on the frontier, individual preachers and exhorters
                              often experienced considerable freedom in initiating, adapting, and
                              improvising the rules. Preachers created and sometimes abandoned
                              circuits. They scheduled campmeetings and revivals on the basis of
                              inspiration. A revival that was going well might be extended,
                              sometimes for several weeks, with the circuit schedule adjusted
                              accordingly.
                         The early history of the Marion Circuit in 
                                   Indiana
                               (which covered parts of 
                                   Grant
                              , 
                                   Huntington
                              , 
                                   Wabash
                              , 
                                   Delaware
                              , and 
                                   Blackford
                               counties) illustrates this controlled chaos. William
                              Wharton was a lay steward who lived in 
                                   Grant
                                        County
                               and was responsible for keeping the circuit's
                              records and schedule.24 In 1832 he recorded that
                              the circuit was part of 
                                   24"Methodists and Methodism in 
                                             Marion
                                        , 
                                             Grant County
                                        , 
                                             Indiana
                                        ," undated typescript, Marion Public
                                        Library, 
                                             Marion
                                        , 
                                             Indiana
                                        . The partial manuscript was evidently found in
                                        some old papers and transcribed in 1948.
                              
                              the LaPorte district; in 1835, the circuit was assigned to the 
                                   Centerville
                               district.25 In the next few years he
                              reported, successively, that the circuit was changed to the districts
                              of 
                                   Peru
                              , 
                                   Logansport
                              , 
                                   Winchester
                              , and finally 
                                   Marion
                              . In 1842, Wharton recorded that the circuit consisted of
                              twenty-six appointments and two more societies, but when he came to
                              write down the preaching schedule he listed not twenty-six but
                              thirty-three different preaching locations.
                         Under such conditions, it is not surprising that Eli Farmer would set
                              out on his own in 
                                   Greene
                                        County
                              , create his own circuit, and plan his own revivals. His
                              aggressive, adventurous nature served him well as a frontier preacher.
                              He recorded the welcome he received in one settlement: I went to 
                                        Bloomfield
                                   , which place I found filled up pretty well with
                                   infidels. I went in among them and began an aggressive warfare,
                                   and the Spirit of the Lord was with me. ... I had prayed ...
                                   earnestly and fervently over this place ... to have a ... witness
                                   ... given to me in spite of men or devils. The infidel element of
                                   society seemed to be insulted, and for some cause treated me
                                   coolly. An old gentleman by the name of Vanclives actively and
                                   thoroughly canvassed the community ... and did all he could for
                                   the cause of infidelity. . . . One of their number a man by the
                                   name of doctor Patton came to me one day, and rudely said to me,
                                   "dam you leave this place, or you will frighten our
                                   women and children to death."
                          Farmer replied that God had given the place to him, despite the
                              opposition of men or devils, at which the doctor came at him with cane
                              raised. Farmer was no longer the brawler of his youthful days, but he
                              stood his ground and repeated, "God has given me this place,
                              and I will have it."
                         Farmer's strategy to gain converts was to schedule a protracted
                                   meeting,26 but before it began the judge, the
                              doctor, and several other 
                                   25
                                             LaPorte
                                         is in the far northwest corner of the state; 
                                             Centerville
                                         in the middle of the state close to the eastern
                                        border; and 
                                             Logansport
                                         in the north central area. This would hardly be
                                        a recipe for administrative stability.
                                   26Farmer,
                                        "Autobiography." A "protracted
                                        meeting" was a series of preaching services held
                                        once a day or several times a day for several days. These
                                        often lasted as "long as the Spirit was
                                        working." A campmeeting was a protracted meeting
                                        held outdoors with the expectation that people would camp
                                        overnight for several days.
                              
                              leading
                              "infidels" moved to the Owenite settlement at 
                                   New
                                        Harmony
                               and, in Farmer's view, left the field open for
                              the Methodists. The meeting brought in many converts, all of whom
                              joined the church.27
                         Farmer also took on the area's many Baptists. While visiting a
                              young convert named Jane, Farmer faced an argument from her Baptist
                              father, who accused the Methodists of "giving people
                              something" to make them act the way they did.28 Farmer answered the man from scripture and then
                              scheduled a prayer meeting the next night for Jane and some of her
                              believing neighbors. Relating the meeting, he later recalled that
                                   By the time I had got pretty well
                                   through with my discourse, the power of the Lord came down in a
                                   remarkable manner and Jane jumped up and began shouting, and
                                   praising God .... Nearly all the neighbors professed religion
                                   before I left the meeting, and I continued to hold meetings at
                                   that place, having an appointment there every time I came around
                                   the circuit.29 Eventually Farmer was
                              able to convert Jane's Baptist father. All of this took place
                              while Farmer was still only a licensed exhorter. At the 1825 annual
                              conference he was licensed to preach and given an appointment to the 
                                   Bloomfield
                               circuit, back to the churches he had started.
                         Attending the annual conference was crucial for a Methodist preacher.
                              The gathering was a support system for the otherwise often solitary
                              circuit rider: he could swap stories, gain encouragement and ask
                              advice, and find new ideas for his sermons. It was also a place to
                              make 
                                   27Robert Owen was setting up his
                                        socialistic communitarian experiment at 
                                             New Harmony
                                        . After it failed within a few years, the men
                                        mentioned returned to 
                                             Bloomfield
                                         and later became friends with Farmer (though
                                        they never converted). 
                                             Indiana
                                         Methodists generally opposed communitarian
                                        groups, including the Owenites and Shakers.
                                   28The reference is to the emotional
                                        outbursts and unusual behavior that characterized Methodist
                                        meetings.
                                   29Farmer,
                                        "Autobiography." It was understood that a
                                        Methodist meeting would be different from a Baptist or a
                                        Presbyterian meeting. It was not billed as a revival, but
                                        Farmer, like other circuit riders, viewed every religious
                                        family gathering, class meeting, and Sunday school gathering
                                        as a potential revival.
                              
                              contacts with those who might
                              assist in future campmeetings. The main item of business at every
                              annual conference was the examination, approval, credentialing, and
                              appointment of ministers. Members of the conference (all ministers and
                              all men at this time) licensed and/or ordained
                              "exhorters," local pastors, deacons, and elders.
                              Bishops selected some elders to be "presiding
                              elders," responsible for all the church's work in
                              their districts. In addition, at each conference district lines could
                              be rearranged, circuits could be added or split, and pastors were
                              given appointments for the coming year.
                         Circuits were roughly defined and often geographically scattered. John
                              Scripps, one of Farmer's contemporaries, relates that in
                              1820, when 
                                   Indiana
                               was still a part of the Missouri Conference, his
                              appointment was simply to "Blue River," a circuit
                              described as "south of 
                                   Corydon
                              , 
                                   Fredonia
                              , 
                                   Rome
                              , 
                                   Troy
                              , 
                                   Blue
                                        River
                              , Bear
                                   Creek, Deer Creek, Anderson River, French Creek,
                                   Little
                                   Pigeon, bounded on the north by the White River."
                              There were no roads and no landmarks except rivers and homes. Many of
                              the cabins he discovered in the wilderness had not been visited by any
                              other person.30
                         The circuit rider's mode of operation was simple: he visited
                              homes, inquired after the health of the family, and asked if they
                              would welcome family prayers or even a religious service. Services
                              were often held on the spot with neighbors invited. The next step was
                              to ask if the people would be interested in regular services. If so, a
                              new "preaching point" was added to the circuit.
                              Converts were formed into small groups, and each class was assigned a
                              class leader. Some met in homes; larger groups might move to a school,
                              a barn, or even a tavern. If the classes remained successful, the
                              converts would then organize a church, which would eventually erect a
                              meeting house.
                         Constant travel, often under the most primitive conditions, frequently
                              made the life of a circuit rider one of deprivation, financial
                              destitution, and sickness. Not surprisingly, many preachers began as
                              very young men; also not surprisingly, many did not live to be old
                              men. Of the first 737 Methodist ministers to die in 
                                   America
                               (until 1847), 203 were between 25 and 35 years of age,
                              and 121 were between 35 and 45.31
                              
                                   30Western Christian
                                             Advocate, January 6, 1843.
                                   31See Jesse Lee, A Short
                                        History of the Methodists in the United States of America (
                                             Baltimore
                                        , 1810), 319-44. Lee, an early Methodist
                                        historian, traced the life of every itinerant to 1810.
                                        Others gathered the later statistics.
                              
                              Death ended the call for some men;
                              for a wide variety of reasons, few men spent more than a few years of
                              their lives on the circuits. In 
                                   Indiana
                              , 299 Methodist preachers are recorded in the official
                              journals as itinerants who were appointed before 1840. Their average
                              length of service was only twelve years.32
                         Back on the Bloomfield circuit, Farmer continued a pattern he would
                              follow throughout his career as a Methodist preacher: he immediately
                              called for a campmeeting. Despite the work of some of the
                              area's best preachers, the meeting did not begin well (in
                              Farmer's words, there was no "stirring of the
                              Spirit"). This time, Farmer looked into the audience for the
                              solution, calling on the "old sisters" who could
                              pray to "come within the altar and unite in prayer for God to
                              remove the obstacles to success." Before the women could
                              begin their prayers, some of them began to "feel
                              happy" and could not restrain their feelings. At that point
                              revival broke out, and the meeting was a success. Farmer held his next
                              campmeeting at 
                                   Newby
                               and after that assisted with a meeting at 
                                   Bedford
                              . He recorded in his autobiography that it was a
                              "happy" year for him.
                         In 1826, following another pattern that would continue throughout his
                              ministry, Farmer was appointed to yet another circuit, this time the
                              sprawling and difficult Vermillion circuit on the 
                                   Illinois
                               line (
                                   Indiana
                               and 
                                   Illinois
                               were in the same conference at the time), "about
                              one hundred miles up the Wabash and a hundred and fifty
                              miles along the edge of a certain prairie . .. three hundred miles
                              square." At this appointment, he could no longer live at home
                              in 
                                   Bloomington
                              , but had to live on the circuit. As was common for many
                              early circuit riders, Farmer knew noone in the region. His task was to
                              go amongst strangers to win souls and establish churches. Farmer
                              calculated that he rode four thousand miles that year on the circuit
                              and frequently preached twice a day.
                         During his year on the Vermillion circuit, Farmer evangelized the
                              "Creek Nation," which he identified as a large band
                              of outlaws based some fifteen miles south of 
                                   Terre
                                        Haute
                              . This group had, according to Farmer, been driven from
                              the "Sandy Salt Works" of 
                                   Kentucky
                               because of their "depredations." They
                              were of mixed blood, "large, stout, and 
                                   32This statistic is compiled from List of Appointments of the Methodist
                                             Episcopal Ministers in 
                                                  Indiana
                                             , 1800-1900 Vol. I, 
                                             Greencastle
                                        , 
                                             Indiana
                                        , Archives and Special Collections, 1998. While
                                        most of the ministers served only a short time, several
                                        served more than fifty years. Preachers did not
                                        "retire," but served until they were
                                        physically unable to continue.
                              
                               desperate." They fought,
                              robbed, burned houses, and were generally "unconscionable
                              scounderells." Farmer's friends urged him to avoid
                              the area, sure that he "would lose his horse if he managed to
                              escape with his life." But Farmer was, as always, determined
                              to seek out converts. He visited houses until he found one that was
                              willing to have preaching, and he scheduled a revival meeting.
                              Neighbors slowly "warmed to the message," although
                              some remained outside the house, listening through the windows. When
                              the breakthrough came, it was dramatic and several people fell down
                              "as though they had been shot." Many converts
                              "were soon in the enjoyment of Christian faith and
                                   happiness."33
                         Farmer's next "attack" was on the adjoining
                              settlement, the "stronghold of the bad fellows." For
                              this he recruited a "working auxillery" of six young
                              ladies, from other churches on the circuit, who were to "sing
                              and pray, after which, when the altar would be visited by seekers of
                              mercy, they would labor at the altar with the sinners surrounding
                                   it."34 The meetings were held;
                              Farmer preached; the ladies prayed and sang; and when the altar filled
                              with mourners, the ladies "labored at the altar."
                              Farmer had found a power over people that was far greater than the
                              physical prowess of his youth: "If ever I loved a people in
                              this world, I loved these good people, for the power of the Lord was
                              with them continually ... I found good which bloodshed could not have
                                   gained."35
                         As fall 1826 approached, Farmer planned a circuit - wide campmeeting
                              which would include the folks of the Creek Nation. His friends
                              discouraged him, fearing trouble, and the presiding elder would not
                              offer his support. Farmer persisted but took the precaution of
                              selecting some converts to serve as guards. Farmer later reported that
                              he had never attended a meeting with better order and that many people
                                   
                                   33Farmer,
                                        "Autobiography," 127. Farmer reports this
                                        as if it were a common phenomenon.
                                   34Ibid., 128. If social, racial, and
                                        economic distinctions were blurred at the altar, it also
                                        stood to reason that gender distinctions would be blurred.
                                        On women in early American Methodism, see Catherine Brekus,
                                        "Female Evangelism in the Early Methodist Movement,
                                        1784-1845," in Methodism and the
                                             Shaping of American Culture, ed. Hatch and Wigger,
                                        135-73. Brekus argues that while Methodists held ambivalent
                                        feelings about women in leadership positions, there was a
                                        strong sense that endowment by the Spirit gave women
                                        authority to minister in areas previously granted only to
                                        men. The argument was soon expanded to allow women to
                                        preach. When the radical revivalist Wesleyan Methodists
                                        broke with the Methodist Episcopal Church in 1844, they
                                        ordained women.
                                   35Farmer,
                                        "Autobiography," 120.
                              
                               were converted. The campmeeting
                              went so well, in fact, that Farmer suggested a variation on the
                              customary rituals: About the time we were
                                   ready to close the meeting, I announced we would engage in what
                                   we called a "holy march." . . . We would march
                                   around the encampment, on the outer side, three times, singing as
                                   we marched along, and that all who desired to go to heaven, were
                                   urgently requested to join the procession of singers. Many of the
                                   brethren and sisters became so happy during these closing
                                   services that they seemed to be kept upon the earth only by a
                                   miracle. I also announced, that just before the last march around
                                   the camp, I would stop and shake hands with them as they made the
                                   last circuit. I did so, and as soon as many of them had taken me
                                   by the hand, they would file around me and come up again and thus
                                   hover around me, loath to leave me. Some would be crying, while
                                   others would be shouting and praising God.36
                         Farmer's revival success masks another aspect of this story.
                              Despite the flexibility of the Methodist system of organization, the
                              denomination possessed a distinct hierarchy. Those at the bottom of
                              the system, the exhorters and local preachers, were answerable to the
                              deacons, traveling elders, and bishops at the top. As
                              Farmer's ecclesiastical superior, the presiding
                              elder's support was crucial. But Farmer was obviously still
                              an independent man. If he felt led by the Spirit to hold a
                              campmeeting, he would do so, with or without the elder's
                              approval. Eventually, it would be conflict with the
                              "authorities" that would lead Farmer to break with
                              Methodism.
                         At the next annual conference in 1827, however, Farmer was still a
                              dedicated circuit preacher, and his success in remote, rural circuits
                              may have contributed to his appointment to the Crawfordsville Circuit,
                              largely uncharted and unevangelized, stretching all the way north to
                                   Lake
                                   Michigan. Farmer later claimed that, during his time
                              on this circuit, he met Isaac Elston, who tried to persuade him to
                              come to the community of 
                                   Michigan City
                               which he was developing. Farmer also traveled west 
                                   36Ibid., 132-33.
                               and north into the area
                              that would become 
                                   Chicago
                              . He visited 
                                   Lafayette
                              , where the minister in charge of the circuit had
                              encountered "enemies" who so disrupted services that
                              the minister "finally abandoned the field." Farmer,
                              as before, rose to the challenge. Although remarried and traveling
                              with his wife, he preached in the town, managed to pacify the
                              disruptive element, and organized "the first church ever
                              formed in 
                                   LaFayette
                              ."37
                         In 
                                   Crawfordsville
                              , Farmer was able to persuade Lorenzo Dow to help with a
                              campmeeting. Dow (1777-1834) was one of the most eccentric and
                              controversial of all the frontier campmeeting preachers, with a
                              reputation in 
                                   America
                              and 
                                   England
                              .38 Not surprisingly, Farmer later
                              recalled that Dow produced many converts to the church.
                         In early 1828, adversity befell Farmer and his wife. They both became
                              ill, and, at the age of 33, Eli was forced to give up his circuit.
                              Returning to his still unfinished "hut" near 
                                   Bloomington
                              , and fixing it up as best he could, he faced not only
                              illness but poverty. Like most Methodist circuit riders, he had few
                              independent resources, and his yearly assignments had been to the
                              least settled parts of 
                                   Indiana
                              where he had made a sparse living. Farmer wrote that
                              "My wife and I were both very sick .... Sore pierced by
                              wintery winds, we shrank into our sordid hut of cheerless
                              poverty." The home had a dirt floor, no chimney for the fire,
                              and a blanket hanging where a front door should have been. The
                              couple's sole possessions were their clothes and the horse
                              that Farmer had ridden on his preaching tours.39
                         Finally one day, "out of bread and every thing of which bread
                              is made," Farmer saw himself as engaged in warfare with the
                              devil: 
                                   37Ibid. It is difficult to know if some
                                        of Farmer's dates (including this one) are correct.
                                        Elston did not purchase the land for 
                                             Michigan City
                                         until 1830, but he was from 
                                             Crawfordsville
                                        , and Farmer could have met him there earlier.
                                        Elston platted the town in 1832, and 
                                             Michigan City
                                         was incorporated in 1836. See Rollo B. Oglesbee
                                        and Albert Hale, History of 
                                                  Michigan City
                                             , 
                                                  Indiana
                                              (
                                             Michigan City
                                        , 1908), 78-84.
                                   38On Dow's role in American
                                        frontier religion, see Hatch, Democratization
                                             of American Christianity, esp. 130-38. Dow
                                        personifies the untamed, experimental spirit of frontier
                                        revivalism. Almost all his work was with Methodists, though
                                        as an independent traveling evangelist he was never
                                        officially ordained. He traveled extensively throughout 
                                             America
                                        and then Great Britain, where his
                                        introduction of campmeetings was so controversial that a new
                                        denomination, the Primitive Methodists, eventually formed.
                                        By the time Dow preached for Eli Farmer, he was famous and
                                        his writings were widely known. His best-known book, Lorenzo Dow's Works, went
                                        through a number of editions.
                                   39Farmer,
                                        "Autobiography," 135.
                              
                              
                              The tempter, taking advantage of my lowly
                                   condition, whispered many times in my ears, "You have
                                   given away your once strong and healthy constitution, gave up
                                   your life, in fact, for the cause, and now you are left to die,-
                                   scorned by the world, and left without a home." But I
                                   kept trying to claim the promises, and my heart answered back to
                                   its challenger, "the Lord will fulfill his word and I
                                   shall not suffer." Soon I helped to eat the last morsel
                                   of food we had, and it was eaten one morning at breakfast.
                                   Confined to my bed I confronted my fate, by watching the openings
                                   of Providence with a prayerful heart. About dinner time of that
                                   day an old lady, the mother of the Rev. Draper Chipman, came in
                                   with a basket well laden with just such edibles as sick folks
                                   ought to be supplied with, and spread them out before us, and it
                                   was just at the right time, too. Joy springing up in my heart, I
                                   exultantly cried out, "now, Devil, where are you?40
                         Friends intervened and persuaded the couple to move to the small town of
                              Fairplay. There Farmer spent the winter preaching on Sundays at a
                              little chapel and arguing religion in the evenings with his former
                              nemeses, the judge and the lawyer who had returned to 
                                   Bloomfield
                              . Even in the spring of 1829, Farmer remained too sick to
                              attend the yearly conference. He sent a request that he be
                              "located" (not given an appointment). The bishop
                              instead appointed him to the Washington Circuit, another challenging
                              assignment. Farmer was told by someone claiming familiarity with the
                              area that if there was ever to be a revival on that circuit, God would
                              have to kill off the existing population and replace them with
                              different people. The only organized religion in the area was
                              Universalism (to a Methodist, no improvement on atheism).41 Farmer scheduled a revival and called for a
                              debate with the Universalists. Neither the revival nor the debate,
                              which nearly ended in 
                                   40Ibid.
                                   41There were Universalist preachers in 
                                             Indiana
                                         beginning in the 1810s and throughout the 1820s
                                        and 1830s when Farmer was riding his Methodist circuits. L.
                                        C. Rudolph singles out Jonathan Kidwell, who began as a
                                        Methodist circuit rider, then became a Christian preacher,
                                        and then a Universalist circuit rider by 1815. Kidwells
                                        circuit covered seven counties in eastern 
                                             Indiana
                                        , nine in western 
                                             Ohio
                                        , and the area around 
                                             Louisville
                                        . By 1829, Universalists claimed 2000 adherents
                                        in 
                                             Indiana
                                         (an increase from the earliest estimate of
                                        200). This is a small number compared to Methodist
                                        acquisitions, but large enough to suggest that small groups
                                        of Universalists could have lived in many 
                                             Indiana
                                         towns. Rudolph, Hoosier
                                             Faiths, 312-13.
                              
                               a fight, produced sufficient
                              results for Farmer, who, undeterred, proposed a campmeeting in
                              "the valley of the White River." "Certain authorities
                              of the church" tried to stop the campmeeting but Farmer,
                              again exhibiting a disregard for authority when it suited his
                              purposes, held the meeting anyway. Farmer related that he
                              "counted at one time sixty young men at the altar seeking
                                   salvation."42
                         Farmer was able to attend the 1830 annual conference but, still on the
                              edge of poverty, had to sell the family cow for funds. Perhaps the
                              "authorities" finally realized that if they were to
                              keep Farmer on a preaching circuit, they would have to send him
                              somewhere where he could not only save souls but make a modest living.
                              Farmer's appointment that year was to the White Lick circuit,
                              ten miles south of 
                                   Indianapolis
                              . During the year he was able to pay off most of his
                              debts. His wife (now with two children) added to the family's
                              income by knitting and making shoes. Farmer's ministry also
                              prospered. Here he enjoyed the support and assistance of his presiding
                              elder, James Armstrong, and added 350 members to the church during the
                              year.
                         In 1831, Farmer was appointed to another more populous and prosperous
                              circuit, the Franklin circuit, which included 
                                   Indianapolis
                              . Armstrong, Farmer's supervisor once more, had
                              told the people of the circuit that if they agreed to pay a
                              "satisfactory" wage, they would have the privilege
                              of choosing their own minister for the coming year. They chose Farmer,
                              whom they had known from campmeetings. By the end of the year Farmer
                              had taken in 555 members. He also paid off his debts, saved eighty
                              dollars, bought a two-horse wagon, and moved his family to his farm
                              near 
                                   Bloomington
                              .
                         Farmer's next appointment, in 1832, was to the Greencastle
                              Circuit. While riding the circuit, he was persuaded to invest his
                              savings in a merchandise business in 
                                   Bloomington
                              . When the firm ran into problems, Farmer bought out a
                              partner and sought to save the store. Once again, this time for
                              reasons of business rather than health, Farmer
                              "located," i.e., gave up his circuit. In his
                              autobiography, Farmer does not write of how his location affected his
                              calling to preach or his relationship to the Methodist church, but it
                              was obvious that his life had taken a different turn.
                         
                              42Farmer, "Autobiography,"
                                   173.
                         
                         
                          Farmer's location was intended to be temporary, as he handled
                              his business investment. The business did well. Farmer relates that he
                              was helped by his 15-year-old son, who, unlike his father, had some
                              education and was able to do "all my calculations for
                              me." By 1836, Farmer was preaching again, evidently part-time
                              and without official sanction, as he continued his business. He chose
                              as his "field" 
                                   Brown
                                        County
                               (adjoining 
                                   Monroe
                                        County
                              , where he lived), where he labored "zealously
                              and with good success."43
                         At the 1837 Annual Conference, held in 
                                   New
                                        Albany
                              , Farmer "told" the assembled leaders
                              that they must supply the new mission field that he had established
                              and that if they did nothing, he "would institute a system of
                              (his) own ... developing (his) ideas pretty fully." The words
                              may have sounded like an ultimatum, and the leaders were, in
                              Farmer's words, "greatly amused." The
                              conference received Farmer back into active relationship, created
                              "Brown Mission" as a new charge,44 and appointed him back to the work which he had created.
                              In 
                                   Brown
                                        County
                              , Farmer, always the adversary, challenged two rough areas
                              known as "
                                   Big Hog Thief Settlement
                              " and "
                                   Little Hog Thief
                              ." Both were characterized by "gambling,
                              fighting, stealing horses, and the like." Some of the
                              inhabitants were converted; the unconverted became targets of a group
                              of citizen "regulators," evidently Methodists, who
                              took the law into their own hands and broke up the gangs.45
                         Farmer's methods were, as usual, effective in even the most
                              difficult field. During the course of the year, Farmer received 300
                              members into the church. But relations with the denominational
                              hierarchy continued to sour. At the first quarterly meeting, Farmer
                              had a confrontation 
                                   43It appears that Farmer has this event
                                        out of sequence. The dates in the article match the dates in
                                        Methodist conference journals. Cf. p. 224.
                                   44Methodist preachers were appointed to
                                        a "circuit," a
                                        "station," or a
                                        "mission." A mission implied that the
                                        circuit was not self-supporting and would receive funds from
                                        other circuits. A circuit consisted of any number of
                                        churches or preaching points, all of which were combined in
                                        membership reporting. A station meant one single church was
                                        large enough to supports its own pastor. In 1835 there were
                                        65 pastoral charges in 
                                             Indiana
                                        -9 were stations and 6 were missions. Holliday,
                                             
                                                  Indiana
                                              Methodism, 114.
                                   45Farmer,
                                        "Autobiography." Vigilante/regulator
                                        groups were mentioned as being in 
                                             Indiana
                                         as early as 1820, although documented groups
                                        date from the 1850s. Methodist regulators would have been an
                                        interesting aberration. See Paul Musgrave,
                                        "'A Primitive Method of Enforcing the
                                        Law': Vigilantism as a Response to Bank Crimes in 
                                             Indiana
                                        , 1925-1933," Indiana
                                             Magazine of History, 102 (September 2006),
                                        190-91.
                              
                               with his presiding elder. By
                              year's end, a campmeeting was being held at the fourth
                              quarterly conference, under the leadership of the same elder, who
                              bypassed Farmer and scheduled other preachers. Not one succeeded in
                              stirring up a revival. One speaker, by Farmer's account,
                              "destroyed the devotional feelings of the audience"
                              by his "wretched blunderings." Finally, at the
                              insistence of the crowd and a group of preachers not tied to the
                              circuit, Farmer was called upon to preach. He asked some of his
                              supporters to join him in the woods for a prayer meeting, where he
                              sought forgiveness for his "ugly" spirit. When a
                              bugle sounded for the beginning of the service, Farmer began to work
                              the crowd: After this I now jumped over the
                                   rear railing of the preachers' stand and extended a
                                   general and pressing invitation for sinners and backsliders to
                                   come forward to the altar and seek forgiveness for sin, and there
                                   was a general rush to the altar. They came by platoons, yes, came
                                   by companies, and even battalions .... The laborers at the altar
                                   were divided now with my brethren, excepting the traveling
                                   preachers, all of whom stood aloof, refusing to lend a helping
                                   hand. More than forty persons professed religion ... all of whom
                                   joined the church.46
                         Farmer had challenged the presiding elder and his supporters and, on the
                              grounds of the campmeeting, had won a temporary victory. But the
                              presiding elder often played a determining role in yearly
                                   appointments47 and at the 1838 conference,
                              Farmer was appointed to the Danville Circuit. It was an undesirable,
                              struggling circuit that paid little. To make matters worse, it was
                              divided into two parts, and Farmer was given the larger, undeveloped
                              part. Feeling that he had been "trapped" by a
                              "designing and cruel enemy," Farmer was ready to
                              locate again, but his wife admonished that they had "never
                              abandoned a work assigned us till our labors were finished."
                              She offered to teach school to support the family.48
                         
                              46Farmer, "Autobiography,"
                                   236.
                              47Bishops fixed appointments, but
                                   practically speaking, at this time, bishops also itinerated
                                   (their appointment was not to a specific area) and so they relied
                                   on the presiding elders.
                              48Farmer,
                                   "Autobiography."
                         
                         
                         Farmer went to 
                                   Danville
                              . He visited, built up the circuit, and held revivals. At 
                                   Winchester
                              , seven miles west of 
                                   Danville
                              , Farmer and his wife scheduled a two-day meeting.
                              "The work broke out in a powerful manner," and
                              Farmer extended the meeting to seven days. Forty of the converts
                              became Methodists, but forty more had existing associations with other
                              churches. Farmer sent out for help from his Methodist
                              "brethren" but none came.49
                         Perhaps as a result of rejection and conflict from within his own
                              church, Farmer began to experiment with a new idea, one he would
                              eventually call his "Christian Union plan." He
                              visited three other preachers in the area, two Presbyterian and one
                              Baptist. If the men would work the revival with him, he proposed, he
                              would not attempt to make Methodists out of the forty non-Methodists
                              already converted at his meeting and each would receive into his
                              church those that so desired. According to Farmer, the experiment was
                              a success: "All prejudices gave way, every heart was filled
                              with love and union sentiments and all were happy and
                                   joyous."50 The meetings continued
                              for five more weeks, followed by a two-week-long joint
                              campmeeting.
                         At the 1839 annual conference, Farmer located. He offered himself for
                              revivals and campmeetings, but few shared his vision of cooperation.
                              When he agreed to preach a revival for the Baptists he was criticized
                              by the Methodist leadership. When the Methodist preacher in 
                                   Bloomington
                               preached against "Campbellism"
                              (followers of Alexander Campbell who formed the Christian Church),
                              Farmer defended the Campbellites and got caught between the two
                              groups. Farmer attempted to sponsor a joint revival held on neutral
                              ground at the town courthouse, but the revival faded quickly.51
                         At this low point in his preaching career, Farmer found an unlikely ally
                              in Andrew Wylie, a Presbyterian minister and the president of 
                                   49Ibid.
                                   50Ibid., 244.
                                   51Beginning about 1811, Alexander
                                        Campbell led a movement (sometimes known as Restorationism
                                        and later part of the Christian Church-Disciples of Christ)
                                        which attacked all current denominations, and claimed that
                                        the church must be built on unity and biblical practices and
                                        principles. From the mid- to late 1820s, Campbellite
                                        publications circulating in 
                                             Indiana
                                         gained many followers for the movement. See
                                        Rudolph, Hoosier Faiths, 67-72; H. Clay
                                        Trusty, "Formation of the Christian Church in 
                                             Indiana
                                        ," Indiana Magazine of
                                             History, 6 (March 1910), 17-32.
                              
                              
                              
                                   Indiana University campus, 1840
                                   Eli Farmer, at the invitation of college president Andrew
                                        Wylie, preached at chapel services in 1839
                                   Indiana University Archives
                               Indiana University. Several years earlier, Farmer had
                              accused the fledgling school of sectarianism when it hired
                              Presbyterians but no Methodists to the faculty. Wylie was fighting his
                              own battle against sectarianism, caught up in an Old School/New School
                              controversy with the Bloomington Presbyterian Church. Wylie and
                              Farmer, despite their cultural and theological differences, found in
                              each other a kindred spirit. Wylie suggested that the revivals
                              continue in the college chapel. The meetings ceased after six weeks,
                              but Farmer related that Wylie, whom he described as "one of
                              the wisest and most learned men of the west," continued to
                              urge him to use the college chapel for future non-sectarian
                                   revivals.52
                         
                              52Before Farmer, William Daily, a student at
                                   the college from 1835-1836 and a Methodist preacher, sometimes
                                   preached the Sunday sermon at chapel. See Holman Hamilton, ed.,
                                   "An 
                                        Indiana
                                    College Boy in 1836: The Diary of Richard Henry
                                   Holman," Indiana Magazine of History,
                                   49 (September 1953), 298. On Wylie and religious controversies,
                                   see Gayle Williams, "Andrew Wylie and Religion at
                                   Indiana University, 1824-1851: Nonsectarianism and
                                   Democracy," Indiana Magazine of
                                        History, 99 (March 2003), 3-24.
                         
                         
                         Later in 1839, at the age of 45, Eli Farmer made a final break with the
                                   Methodists.53 One of the several reasons he
                              gave was what he called "prejudiced sectarianism."
                              The rest of Farmer's life -another 43 years- was full. He
                              became a successful businessman. He traveled to 
                                   Chicago
                               and explored the possibility of starting a school for
                              Indians there. He made a trip south where he stayed for some months
                              and held revival meetings among the slaves. He started his own
                              denomination (Christian Union) based on his principles of cooperation.
                              He continued to sponsor, organize, and hold his own revivals and
                              campmeetings. He was elected and served three years in the state
                              senate (and got into a fist fight). He ran for the United States
                              Congress and lost. He edited a newspaper. During the Civil War, nearly
                              seventy years old, he made several trips to the front, serving for a
                              time as a volunteer chaplain and, of course, holding a revival for the
                              troops. During the war, his Christian Union began to wane and he
                              eventually merged the group with another denomination by the same name
                              and with the same principles based in 
                                   Ohio
                              .
                    
                    
                         THE PLACE OF REVIVALS IN THE EARLY GROWTH OF 
                                   INDIANA
                               METHODISM
                         Many religious groups would thrive and grow on the 
                                   Indiana
                               frontier, but Methodism's growth existed in a
                              category by itself. The sheer number of conversions and
                              "accessions" claimed by Eli Farmer and his fellow
                              circuit riders suggests that if their reports were anywhere close to
                              accurate, Methodism was an overwhelming presence in early 
                                   Indiana
                              .
                         Official Methodist journals reported membership in 
                                   Indiana
                               in ten-year increments: 775 in 1810; 4,410 in 1820;
                              20,095 in 1830; 36,076 in 1840; and 72,404 in 1850.54 From 1805 to 1850, Methodists established 778 churches
                              in 
                                   Indiana
                              -more than Baptists, Presbyterians, Congregationalists,
                              and Quakers combined. Methodist strength, however, was almost
                              certainly greater than such statistics suggest. Federal census takers
                              considered a "church" to be a building, with a
                              determined property value, set aside for religious functions.55 Methodist circuits 
                                   53Farmer,
                                        "Autobiography," 250 ff.
                                   54These statistics are gleaned from
                                        Holliday, 
                                                  Indiana
                                              Methodism, 51, 75, 129, 147,
                                        173.
                                   55Church figures are taken from U. S.,
                                             Seventh Census, 1850 (
                                             Washington
                                        , 1853), 799-807. In 1850 the census considered
                                        a "church" as a congregation in a
                                        building: there do not appear to be any churches without an
                                        accompanying valuation of property. By 1870, the census ran
                                        two columns of statistics for churches, one for
                                        "edifices" and one for
                                        "organizations."
                              
                               included societies, classes,
                              regular and irregular preaching points-with or without buildings, all
                              in various stages of becoming or unraveling as
                              "churches." As has been noted, early Methodists
                              considered the gathering of people more important than the building in
                              which they met.56
                         Historically, Christian denominations grew or were established in new
                              territory by one of several methods: 1) by biological growth, that is,
                              the faith was passed from one generation to another, so that as
                              families grew the church grew; 2) by missionary growth, in which
                              missionaries persuaded villages, clans, tribes, or even nations to
                              convert to the faith; 3) by migration, as ethnic or church groups
                              (including Quakers, Mennonites, Brethren, Reformed, and Lutherans)
                              colonized new lands; or 4) by state sponsorship, when princes, kings,
                              or governments imposed or sponsored (by education, for example) a
                              state-related religion.
                         Methodism grew in the American West through conversion, that is, by
                              persons turning from no faith or lapsed commitment to faith. In the
                              new country on the frontier, the advantage went to the group with a
                              convincing message and an effective organization. For Methodists, and
                              then for many of the groups that interacted with them, the means to
                              conversion growth was revival. Jesse Lee claimed that in the first
                              twenty- five years following its establishment, the Methodist
                              Episcopal Church grew entirely through revivals.57
                              Although Lee's claim ignores an inevitable
                              biological/familial element in two-and-one-half decades, the
                              percentage of members added by revival conversion must be in the
                              overwhelming majority. Certainly Eli Farmer's career conforms
                              to this pattern. From the time of his own conversion in 1823 until he
                              left the Methodist fold in 1839, Farmer relied on a constant cycle of
                              revivals in every one of his circuits and, in one difficult assignment
                              after another, his methods met with impressive results.
                    
                    
                         METHODISM IN 
                                   INDIANA
                               IN THE MID-1800S
                         By mid-century, Methodists seeking respectability were presenting a
                              revised version of the significance of campmeetings. When T. M. Eddy,
                              in the Methodist Quarterly Review of 1857, wrote
                              "Influence of 
                                   56In 1785 Methodists reported 800
                                        groups meeting in 
                                             America
                                         but only 60 chapels (Methodists did not refer
                                        to their buildings as "churches" in
                                        earliest days). See Wigger, Taking Heaven by
                                             Storm, 36.
                                   57See Russell E. Richey, Early American Methodism (
                                             Bloomington
                                        , 
                                             Ind.
                                        , 1991), 31.
                              
                               Methodism Upon the Civilization
                              and Education of the West," he spoke little of the harvest of
                              souls and much of the betterment of society. Eddy quoted a justice of
                              the Indiana Supreme Court: "But for the Methodist Church and
                              the Methodist ministry, this country would have sunk into
                                   barbarism."58 The end result of
                              revivals and campmeetings, according to the article, was to advance
                              knowledge, tame the frontier, and promote civilization:
                              "villages and neighborhoods not a few, which were in a state
                              of almost semi-barbarism, under the Divine blessing, Methodism has
                              elevated, refined, and placed on the upward grade."59
                         A denomination that had once disdained impressive architecture (and
                              often avoided designated worship buildings altogether) had now begun
                              to build churches. In 1850, Methodists still ranked behind other major
                              religious group in average property value per church.60 In 
                                   Indiana
                              , the average Methodist building was valued at $552, half
                              as much as the national average. Even so, within the state Methodists
                              could still claim a property value edge on Baptists ($497) and the
                              Christian Church ($480).61 Within the next decade
                              and beyond, these figures would change dramatically, as brick churches
                              with steeples rose on Methodism's horizon.
                         In 1856, 
                                   Indianapolis
                               hosted the quadrennial Methodist Episcopal General
                              Conference. 
                                   Indiana
                               Methodists did their best to impress delegates from all
                              over the country and from Europe. In a series of letters, British delegate
                              Frederick J. Jobson wrote back to 
                                   England
                               describing fourteen universities, "where the
                              sons of the more wealthy Methodists are being trained for useful and
                              honourable service in the state and in the Church," two
                              seminaries, seventy academies, and many common day schools.62 He mentioned eleven different denominational
                              periodicals 
                                   58Methodist Quarterly
                                             Review, April 1857, p. 284.
                                   59Ibid., 289. For another discussion of
                                        Methodist respectability, see Holliday, 
                                                  Indiana
                                              Methodism, 241-316. 
                                   60The Methodist average trailed
                                        Baptists ($1,244), Presbyterians ($3,135),
                                        Congregationalists ($4,763), Episcopalians ($7,919), and
                                        Unitarians ($13,449). Roger Finke and Rodney Stark, The Churching of 
                                                  America
                                             , 1776-1990: Winners and Losers in Our
                                             Religious Economy (
                                             New Brunswick
                                        , 
                                             N.J.
                                        , 1992), 83. Figures are taken from the 1850
                                        census.
                                   61These figures are calculated by
                                        taking the total number of churches reported in the census
                                        and then dividing that figure by the property
                                        valuations.
                                   62Frederick J. Jobson, 
                                                  America
                                             , and American Methodism (
                                             New York
                                        , 1857), 224.
                              
                               with 285,461 annual subscribers.
                              He spoke glowingly of Methodist prosperity and progress.63 He also mentioned that he had been invited to
                              preach at a campmeeting but had begged off with the excuse that he
                              could not tolerate 
                                   Indiana
                               summer heat.64
                         The circuit system had already begun to break up in the 1840s, and with
                              it the quarterly meetings, circuit gatherings, and frontier-style
                              campmeetings. Revivals and campmeetings were by no means dying out,
                              but the campmeetings, at least, were changing in nature. Instead of
                              being spontaneously planned and taking place in a farmer's
                              grove, they were scheduled by incorporated associations at permanent
                              campgrounds with buildings. 
                                   Indiana's
                               best-known Methodist campgrounds--
                                   Santa
                                        Claus
                              , 
                                   New
                                        Lebanon
                              , 
                                   Deputy
                              , 
                                   Action
                              , 
                                   Battleground
                              , 
                                   LaGrange
                              , and, for the Evangelical Association, 
                                   Oakwood
                              -were all organized after 1848. The new campmeetings were
                              more like family gatherings of the faithful than forms of outreach for
                              the unconverted. The problems that their organizers faced were not
                              emotional excess and all-night preaching and singing, but deciding
                              whether the campgrounds should charge entrance fees and whether trains
                              to the grounds should run on Sunday.
                         A large proportion of Methodists would celebrate their
                              denomination's growing respectability and its new place at
                              the center of 
                                   Indiana's
                               and 
                                   America's
                               religious culture. Other Methodists would direct their
                              efforts to renew the church and return it to its primitive zeal.65 These were the men and women who would keep
                              the revivals stoked and the campmeetings well attended. Historian John
                              Wigger refers to a whole genre of circuit rider autobiographies that
                              had as a common theme the decline of zeal and doctrinal and moral
                              purity in the wake of worldly 
                                   63Considerable space in the book was
                                        also given to work among the "coloured,"
                                        and the matter of slavery.
                                   64He does not expand on this passing
                                        remark but one could speculate that he was uncomfortable
                                        with the American style campmeetings. British Methodism by
                                        this time expressed repulsion at the idea of
                                        campmeetings.
                                   65This branch of Methodism was
                                        exemplified in the 1840s by laywoman Phoebe Palmer, whose
                                        published works echoed the thoughts of many Methodists about
                                        full sanctification, or Holiness. After the Civil War,
                                        Methodists were instrumental in many of the earliest
                                        organized Holiness groups. See Timothy L. Smith, Revivalism and Social Reform: American
                                             Protestantism on the Eve of the Civil War (1957; 
                                             Baltimore
                                        , 
                                             Md.
                                        , 1980); Melvin E. Dieter, The
                                             Holiness Revival of the Nineteenth Century (
                                             Metuchen
                                        , 
                                             N. J.
                                        , 1980); Charles E. Jones, Perfectionist Persuasion: The Holiness Movement and
                                             American Methodism, 1867-1936 (
                                             Metuchen
                                        , 
                                             N. J.
                                        , 1974).
                              
                              success.66 In
                              the East, a growing perception that Methodism was losing its core
                              values had appeared by the 1820s.67 By the 1850s,
                              the same complaint was heard in the West. Peter Cartwright, writing in
                              1853, gave a glowing account of "Primitive
                              Methodism" and then lamented: "But, O, how have
                              things changed for the worse in this educational age of the world!68 Eli Farmer would have agreed. In 1840, he was
                              already complaining that Methodism had lost its concern for the poor
                              and was given over to "sectarianism." In his
                              autobiography, written more than three decades later, he opined:
                                   I am troubled, with grave aprechensions,
                                   that the standard of Christianity is lower now, then it was
                                   formerly when it was in its comparatively primitive days in the
                                   republic . . . and I attribute the fact to the traditions,
                                   customes and fashions of men, which have been so moulded and
                                   shaped as to accommodate the prejudices of the world.69
                         
                              66Wigger, Taking Heaven by
                                        Storm, 181-86. The dissidents were often called
                                   "croakers," a term referring to those who
                                   longed for the "good old days."
                              67Ibid., 187. The reference is to the
                                   changing nature, or erosion, not only of the campmeeting, but
                                   also the love feast, the class meeting, and the itinerancy
                                   itself.
                              68Cartwright, Autobiography of
                                        Peter Cartwright, 61.
                              69Farmer, "Autobiography,"
                                   4.
                         
                    
               
               
               
                    REVIEWS
                    James Dean Rebel with a Cause By Wes D.
                         Gehring (
                              Indianapolis
                         : Indiana Historical Society Press, 2005. Pp. xii, 303.
                         Photographs, notes, select bibliography. $19.95.)
                    Hoosiers in 
                                   Hollywood
                               By David L. Smith (
                              Indianapolis
                         : Indiana Historical Society, 2006. Pp. xix, 596. Photographs,
                         bibliography, index. $59.95.)
                    I'm not sure I can imagine modern masculinity without James Dean.
                         Sure, Marion Brando had angst. In his films of the first half of the 1950s,
                         including A Streetcar Named Desire (1951), Viva Zapata! (1952), The Wild One (1953), and
                              On the Waterfront (1954), Brando visibly suffered on
                         screen, torn by psychological demons and tortured by moral choices. But he
                         suffered in a manly, hairy-chested manner, a mixture of grunts, grimaces,
                         and testosterone. Dean's suffering was somehow womanlier. He
                         cried, whined, moaned, buried his face in his hands, collapsed into a fetal
                         ball, and just fell apart. Brando's angst threatened others. At
                         any moment it might explode into violence. Dean's threatened only
                         himself. Brando's was existential; Dean's nihilistic.
                         Dean's emotional androgyny became one of the pillars of the
                         counterculture and helped to define the sensitive New Age guy.
                    Two questions immediately arise for a biographer. What were the sources of
                         Dean's on-screen presence? And how does one write a biography of a
                         man who had become a fable even before the automobile crash that took his
                         life? Three films transformed Dean into an American icon. In East of Eden (1955), Rebel Without a Cause
                         (1955), and Giant (1956), Dean played variations of the
                         same role: the lost, confused, suffering, ultimately hopeless man-child.
                         His body was an exposed nerve, his psyche a basket case. Watching the films
                         today, one is struck by how badly he overacts. His inability to make eye
                         contact, 
                              INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, 104 (March 2008) C 2008, Trustees
                                   of Indiana University.
                         
                          childish whining, and cloying
                         emotionalism approach irritating mannerisms. (Which, of course, makes one
                         wonder what it was that so attracted audiences.) But his films, including
                         two released after his death, made Dean into an icon, freezing him in a
                         particular role at a particular cultural moment.
                    In James Dean: Rebel with a Cause, Wes D. Gehring attempts
                         to separate the actor and the person from the icon. In the process, he
                         takes a stab at the central biographical questions. Unlike previous
                         biographers, who either blurred the line between Dean and the roles he
                         inhabited or played fast and loose with psychological theory, Gehring does
                         not see the on-screen Dean as a mirror reflection of the off-screen Dean.
                         Gehring's Dean is remarkably well-adjusted: nice, loving toward
                         his aunt and uncle (Ortense and Marcus Winslow) who raised him in 
                              Fairmount
                         , 
                              Indiana
                         , respectful toward his leading ladies, humorous around his
                         friends, and delightful in his ability to mimic others. He fits the old
                         Hoosier ideal: "It's nice to be important, but
                         it's more important to be nice." Yet Dean was also a
                         serious Method actor, trained in the famed Actors Studio under the
                         direction of Lee Strasberg and Elia Kazan. Method acting demanded total
                         immersion in a role, and it trafficked in the antihero rather than
                         traditional leading man. The Method antihero tended toward dumb
                         inarticulateness and painful vulnerability rather than quick, decisive
                         actions. Dean absorbed the Method style, but in the end, Gehring insists,
                         it was a pose, not who Dean was.
                    Gehring makes a good case for the psychologically healthy Dean, but at times
                         he goes too far. His volume is part of the Indiana Historical
                         Society's Indiana Biography series, and perhaps he credits
                         Dean's years in 
                              Fairmount
                          with too much influence on his personality and career. To be
                         sure, 
                              Fairmount
                          is a slice of mythical, rural 
                              Indiana
                         , and Dean's time there was not the prison sentence
                         that several other biographers have speculated. But Gehring stretches the
                         point when he writes: "One cannot help thinking that the moxie
                         Dean showed in leaving his Hoosier haven for college in 
                              California
                          (the site of so many painful memories), and hopefully an
                         acting career, was born of the non-stop support he had received in 
                              Fairmount
                         . Long before Dean was famous, he was the proverbial big fish
                         in a small town. And sometimes that makes all the difference" (p.
                         79). Perhaps, but it is just as likely that he left 
                              Fairmount
                          to find something that was just not there.
                    Beyond this single quibble, Gehring's book is a model of
                         craftsmanship. He has written numerous other biographies of actors and
                         actresses, and he knows 
                              Hollywood
                          and the motion picture industry. His discussion of
                         Dean's three major films, as well as of Dean's
                         relationships with directors and fellow actors, is consistently
                         insightful.
                    
                    For the most part, Gehring chooses not to delve too deeply into
                         Dean's iconic place in American cultural history or the
                         actor's importance at a particular historical moment. The question
                         of how Dean altered the nature of modern masculinity or invented a new
                         "type" that helped to reshape 
                              Hollywood
                          is largely outside of the scope of the book. At no point does
                         Gehring promise to deliver more than he does - a fresh, sympathetic treatment
                         of 
                              Indiana's
                          most famous actor.
                    Dean may be 
                              Indiana's
                          most famous person with a star on 
                              Hollywood's
                          Walk of Fame, but he is not the only one. As David L. Smith
                         shows in Hoosiers in 
                                   Hollywood
                              , the list includes such important and diverse
                         figures as Anne Baxter, Scatman Crothers, Louise Dresser, Irene Dunne, Sid
                         Grauman, Phil Harris, Howard Hawks, Will Hays, Kevin Kline, Carole Lombard,
                         Karl Malden, Steve McQueen, Dick Powell, Red Skelton, Robert Wise, and many
                         more. The inevitable questions are: What are we to make of all this? How
                         does 
                              Indiana
                          stack up against other states in the star-producing business?
                         I don't know. Is there something in the 
                              Indiana
                          soil that lends itself to producing corn, soybeans, and 
                              Hollywood
                          talent? I don't know. In his brief introduction,
                         Smith suggests a logical reason why 
                              Indiana
                          has been a pipeline to 
                              Hollywood
                         : Its central location made it a transportation hub. Traveling
                         talent shows regularly stopped in 
                              Indiana
                          on the way east and west, exposing Hoosiers to their
                         creativity. And creativity seen became creatisvity imagined.
                    Hoosiers in 
                                   Hollywood
                              , however, is not a sociological study that probes
                         deeply into the "why" of the subject. It is instead a
                         big, beautifully produced, nicely illustrated coffee-table book containing
                         mountains of biographies and facts about the 
                              Indiana
                          - 
                              Hollywood
                          connection. It's a fun book to pick at, making it
                         easy to discover the stars from different towns, cities, and counties. My
                         most common response was: "I didn't know he or she was
                         from 
                              Indiana
                         ." In other words, the book does exactly was it was
                         meant to do.
                    RANDY ROBERTS is Distinguished Professor of History at Purdue
                         University. He is the co-author of John Wayne, American
                         (1995) and the co-editor of 
                              
                                   Hollywood's
                              
                              
                                   America
                              
                          (1993).
               
               
               
                    The Devil's Topographer Ambrose Bierce and the
                              American War Story By David M. Owens (
                              Knoxville
                         : University of Tennessee Press, 2006. Pp. xii, 166.
                         Illustrations, maps, appendices, bibliography, index. $33.00.)
                    On April 19, 1861, eighteen-year-old Ambrose Bierce enlisted with the Indiana
                         Volunteer Ninth Regiment at 
                              Elkhart
                         , the second man in the county to do so. After serving briefly
                         in the Cheat
                              Mountain region of 
                              West
                                   Virginia
                         , Bierce and the Ninth Regiment were transferred to Don Carlos
                         Buell's Army of the Ohio, and shipped to 
                              Nashville
                         . There they were absorbed into William Hazen's
                         Brigade, where they remained for the rest of the war. Hazen's
                         Brigade and the Ninth Regiment saw some of the fiercest action of the war,
                         distinguishing themselves at 
                              Shiloh
                         , Stone's River, 
                              Chickamauga
                         , 
                              Resaca
                         , and Kennesaw Mountain. Bierce was wounded in the head at this
                         last engagement and received a medical discharge in January 1865.
                    David M. Owens's The Devil's Topographer:
                              Ambrose Bierce and the American War Story confines itself largely
                         to this itinerary, considering Bierce's life after the war only as
                         it relates to the writing of his short fiction and memoirs of his time in
                         service. Owens contends that Bierce was jolted into writing his vivid and
                         ironic tales of heroism and desperation by reading A Narrative
                              of Military Service (1885) by Hazen, Bierce's admired
                         superior officer during the war. The table of contents for Hazen's
                              Narrative, as Owens points out, looks like a nearly
                         complete list of Bierce's own settings for his stories-
                              Shiloh
                         , Stone's River, 
                              Readyville
                         , 
                              Chickamauga
                         , 
                              Resaca
                         , 
                              Pickett's Mill
                         . Owens further argues that Bierce's work as army
                         topographer (his book reproduces several of Bierce's detailed
                         maps) holds the clue to his literary achievement in such famous stories as "
                              Chickamauga
                         " and "An Occurrence at Owl Creek
                         Bridge." Bierce's "habit was to write about
                         places as they were when he saw them, regardless of whether the events of
                         the story are based on real incidents or purely invented" (p. 5).
                         The topographical details of Bierce's stories, the concreteness of
                         their geography and even time frame-"places as they were when he saw them"-suggest to Owens that
                         "Bierce's war stories are primarily a reflection of his
                         own journey through the war" (p. 19).
                    Such a thesis has some powerful implications for an aesthetic assessment of
                         "the American War Story" invoked in Owens's
                         subtitle. In his preface and again in the afterword, the author discusses
                         war stories as relying essentially on the author's
                         "having been there." Bierce really was there, to be sure,
                         but Owens does not rest satisfied with the basic knowledge that Bierce
                         fought in this battle, or even with Bierce's own published
                         non-fictional recollections of his experiences. He wants to find which  cliff "The Horseman in the
                         Sky" plummeted from (
                              Seneca
                                   Rocks
                         , 
                              West
                                   Virginia
                         ), or where the notches and bridges are that serve as
                         symbolically laden settings for "An Affair at Coulter's
                         Notch" and "An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge."
                         (Owens concludes that the notch and the bridge are fictional, but based on
                         topographic prototypes observed by Bierce). While it is important to know
                         how powerfully actual experience determined Bierce's aesthetic
                         practice, Owens finally invests too much in the concept of experience. When
                         Owens suggests that his "personal research retracing
                         Bierce's steps through the war in substantially the same sequence
                         as he took them" (p. 5) can deliver essential critical insight, he
                         reaches for an ideal of experience- as chronologically mappable, as capable
                         of re-creation and communication -that Bierce's fictions explode
                         time and again when they describe the ironic consequences of the fact that
                         experience is as much a function of distorted perception as it is of
                         topography.
                    JONATHAN ELMER is associate professor of English, Indiana University. He
                         has published on Edgar Allan Poe, Thomas Jefferson, and Richard Wright,
                         among others, and his book, On Lingering and Being Last:
                              Fictions of Race and Sovereignty in the New World, is forthcoming
                         from Fordham University Press.
               
               
                    By His Own Hand? The Mysterious Death of Meriwether
                              Lewis Edited by John D. W. Guice, with contributions by
                         James J. Holmberg, John D. W. Guice, and Jay H. Buckley (
                              Norman
                         : University of Oklahoma Press, 2006. Pp. xxi, 178.
                         Illustrations, appendix, notes, selected bibliography, index.
                         $24.95.)
                    In October 1809, just three years after he and William Clark made their
                         triumphant return from their voyage of discovery, thirty-five-year-old
                         Meriwether Lewis perished from gunshot wounds at an obscure 
                              Tennessee
                          inn southwest of 
                              Nashville
                         . Interest in Lewis's death has hardly subsided in
                         recent years; indeed, the two-hundredth anniversary of the expedition seems
                         to have sparked a new fascination with the famous explorer's sad
                         ending. Fortunately, By His Own Hand? offers a highly
                         readable, well- researched account of the controversy surrounding
                         Lewis's death that is valuable to both general readers and
                         scholars alike.
                    It would have been hard to find three scholars more qualified to discuss this
                         topic than Guice, professor of history emeritus at the University of Southern Mississippi; Holmberg,
                         curator of special collections at the Filson Historical Society in
                         Louisville, Kentucky; and Buckley, assistant professor of history at
                         Brigham Young University.
                    Mirroring a courtroom setting, Holmberg argues the case for suicide, Guice
                         attempts to refute him, and Buckley gives instructions to the jury of
                         readers. This format makes for fascinating reading. Holmberg, for example,
                         offers a systematic review of the ten contemporaneous sources supporting
                         suicide. As he points out, these sources "can be separated into
                         two groups: those who were with Lewis in the days before his death and
                         those who knew Lewis and believed he was capable of suicide" (p.
                         30). In this careful study of primary documents, Holmberg also deals with
                         questions commonly raised by critics of the suicide theory. In a
                         particularly poignant passage, Holmberg compares Lewis's death to
                         the demise of Peter Grayson, a prominent lawyer and politician who took his
                         own life in 1838-at a 
                              Tennessee
                          inn-to save himself "from the horrors of the
                         madhouse" (p. 67).
                    Defense attorney Guice, by contrast, argues that certain details of the
                         suicide hypothesis are presumed to be solid when they are actually rather
                         shaky. Several accounts, for instance, claim that Lewis cut himself with a
                         razor, but neither of the two most important witnesses said anything of the
                         kind. In addition, "Many writers echo the charge [that Lewis was
                         an alcoholic], but none point to creditable evidence" (p. 78). If
                         one is to present a single, unified theory that Lewis's wounds
                         were self-inflicted, such anomalies must be accounted for. Still, Guice
                         himself maintains that Lewis was "probably" the victim of
                         outlaws without offering a scenario of exactly what happened.
                    Buckley adds a deft touch when he compares the controversy surrounding
                         Lewis's death to a "defining moment" during the
                         expedition -when Lewis and Clark had to decide whether to take the western
                         or northern branch of the Missouri River (in present-day 
                              Montana
                         ). Today there are good arguments on each side of the debate.
                         Buckley also offers a thorough review of recent studies of Lewis's
                         death and points out quite perceptively that "murder theories can
                         only do damage to the suicide theory one at a time. They do not
                         accumulate" (p. 133). Buckley also supplies the most comprehensive
                         bibliography ever compiled on this topic.
                    A valuable documents section includes nine primary documents related to
                         Lewis's death. I wish, however, that photographs of some of the
                         original manuscripts had been supplemented by typed transcriptions. I also
                         believe that the courtroom analogy can be pushed too far. After all,
                         historians are not required to prove their interpretations "beyond
                         reasonable doubt"-they simply have to show that a given theory
                         garners more support from primary sources  than competing theories. Aside from these
                         quibbles, however, I quite enjoyed this book and recommend it to anyone
                         interested in Meriwether Lewis's mysterious last days.
                    LARRY E. MORRIS is author of The Fate of the Corps: What
                              Became of the Lewis and Clark Explorers After the Expedition
                         (2004). (The author of this review read and commented on part of the
                         manuscript before it went to press).
               
               
                    The Cost of Being Poor By Sandra Barnes (
                              Albany
                         : State University of New York Press, 2006. Pp. xiii, 275.
                         Photographs, maps, charts, notes, references, index. $24.95.)
                    It is often said that journalism is the first draft of history. For
                         historians concerned with urban poverty in twentieth-century 
                              America
                         , sociology has more often and more reliably filled that role,
                         from the Chicago School studies of the 1920s and beyond, to Kenneth
                         Clark's social psychological profile of the urban ghetto in the
                         1960s, to William Julius Wilson's examination of the ruinous
                         impact of de-industrialization in the 1980s. Aside from the prescriptive
                         role social science can play in understanding contemporary problems, this
                         historical function is also a vital one, because the dearth of conventional
                         primary sources often makes the experiences of the poor particularly
                         fleeting.
                    Sandra L. Barnes, associate professor of sociology at Purdue University, has
                         produced a compelling study in this same tradition, focusing on one of the
                         most devastated of de-industrialized midwestern cities, 
                              Gary
                         , 
                              Indiana
                         . From the first, 
                              Gary
                          was tied to the economic fortunes of heavy industry, born of
                         U.S. Steel's desire to create a midwestern outpost and named for
                         the corporation's chairman. As historian Jon Teaford has
                         recounted, the city was promoted as the "eighth wonder of the
                         world" and referred to in 1909 by Putnam's
                              Magazine as "the magic city." Barnes provides
                         some historical background to the tragedy of 
                              Gary's
                          decline, but more historical context, including some
                         discussion of whether the urban renewal programs of the post-World War II
                         era had any impact on the then-youthful city, would be helpful.
                    Barnes, herself a 
                              Gary
                          native, focuses primarily on the unique challenges facing
                         impoverished 
                              Gary
                          residents today as manufacturing jobs and retail and other
                         service outlets have left the city, often having relocated to the suburban
                         centers of 
                              Merrillville
                          and 
                              Portage
                         . Her analysis revolves around the relative impact of these
                         structural shifts and the individual agency maintained by 
                              Gary
                         
                          residents in managing the economic and
                         psychological challenges of what she calls their "daily
                         round" of providing for basic family needs (p. 2).
                    Barnes contends that contemporary 
                              Gary
                          residents are far from the "other Americans"
                         mired in the deflating culture of poverty depicted by Michael Harrington in
                         the 1960s, asserting instead that those she studied "do not
                         exhibit present-time orientation, feelings of hopelessness, despair,
                         inferiority, low aspirations, and fatalism, but rather appear to
                         concentrate their efforts and resources toward the future of their
                         children" (pp. 188-89). Her subjects here are more frequently
                         examples of the "working poor" -those earning meager
                         wages, an unfortunate and unexpected event away from disaster, cobbling
                         together what support systems they can in an era of more limited public
                         assistance in the wake of the welfare reform legislation of 1996. Barnes
                         criticizes the official federal poverty threshold as an inadequate
                         measuring tool, but she accepts this as her functional definition of
                         poverty, and focuses less on those who are endemically unemployable and
                         destitute-e.g., the mentally ill or the chemically dependent-than on those
                         nearer the poverty line.
                    Barnes spotlights the stories of selected women and their families as
                         exemplary, including the frustrations of a college-educated African
                         American woman struggling to find a decent job, weighing the costs of her
                         loyalty to 
                              Gary
                          and the employment opportunities in outlying areas, along with
                         the case of a Latino mother of three who patronized 
                              Gary
                          businesses when possible but kept her children out of what she
                         judged the city's inferior school system.
                    Race is clearly a factor in the poverty detailed by Barnes, but not so much
                         in differing daily experiences among racial minorities as in the
                         outmigration of businesses to surrounding areas. Barnes produces staggering
                         statistics about the growth of suburban retailers at 
                              Gary's
                          expense, and she offers an extensive examination of the
                         difficult choices residents must make when shopping for food and
                         clothing.
                    This important work is among the first to provide a close-range examination
                         of life for poor urban residents in the post-welfare reform era.
                         Nevertheless, while the book jacket proclaims that the study
                         "offers broad findings that apply to other similarly impoverished
                         Rust Belt Cities," Barnes provides little comparative discussion,
                         and sadly, in spite of her convincing conclusion that 
                              Gary's
                          residents bravely maintain hope for their individual futures,
                         the study leaves the reader with the impression that aside from the
                         determination of many residents, 
                              Gary
                          offers few of the resources that have provided a measure of
                         hope for revitalization in other urban areas.
                    EDWARD SCHMITT is assistant professor of history at the University of
                         Wisconsin-Parkside.
               
               
               
                    An Honest Calling The Law Practice of Abraham
                              Lincoln By Mark E. Steiner (
                              DeKalb
                         : Northern Illinois University Press, 2006. Pp. x, 272. Notes,
                         select bibliography, index of cases, general index. $42.00.)

                    Traditionally, the study of Abraham Lincoln's legal career has been
                         limited by two obstacles. One was the lack of accessible primary sources-
                         historians assumed that few legal records had survived relating to cases in
                         which Lincoln was involved, and that those few were scattered in
                         courthouses and county offices throughout 
                              Illinois
                         . The second was a lack of technical knowledge. The
                         complexities of the law in general, and of nineteenth-century 
                              Illinois
                          law in particular, have lain beyond the expertise of most
                         professional historians, who left the subject to be addressed by lawyers
                         with an interest in Lincoln. These writers, including John J. Duff, John P.
                         Frank, and more recently Frank J. Williams, understood the law but in turn
                         lacked historical training. In 2000, the first obstacle was overcome with
                         the publication of The Law Practice of Abraham Lincoln,
                         the culmination of a ten-year search that yielded over 100,000 pages of
                         original documents relating to Lincoln's legal career. The
                         appearance of An Honest Calling, written by a
                         professional scholar of both law and history, suggests that the second
                         obstacle is falling as well.
                    This is good news, and not just for Lincoln aficionados. Steiner addresses
                         the central issues in Lincoln's legal career in ways that enhance
                         our understanding of the role of lawyers and the law throughout antebellum 
                              America
                         . In particular, Steiner devotes a chapter to the troublesome
                         Matson case, in which Lincoln represented a slaveholder trying to retain
                         possession of Jane Matson and her family, who claimed that they were freed
                         when their master moved them to 
                              Illinois
                         . How could the Great Emancipator do this? Steiner uses this
                         case to illustrate his central thesis: that Lincoln was a Whig lawyer,
                         devoted to the process of law as the source of social order. Lincoln,
                         Steiner argues, was not an ideologue like Salmon Chase who saw the law as
                         an instrument for social justice. Neither, however, was he the
                         "railroad lawyer" portrayed in Gore Vidal's
                         novel, using the law as a means of advancing business interests at the
                         expense of workers. Lincoln, and by implication many other Whig lawyers,
                         saw themselves primarily as agents of order, representing any client who
                         came to them (slave or slaveholder, railroad corporation or injured
                         worker), and using mediation as much as litigation to maintain social order
                         and uphold the shared values of the community.
                    The chapters of An Honest Calling address the
                         historiography of Lincoln's legal career, his legal
                         self-education, the influence upon his practice of his Whig values, and the range of cases he handled, with
                         particular focus on the Matson case and on his legal work for and against
                         the Illinois Central Railroad. A provocative final chapter suggests that
                         the rise of corporate capitalism and the impersonal market economy in the
                         1850s was rendering obsolete Lincoln's community-oriented style of
                         lawyering. The diversity of the chapters gives the book something of the
                         feeling of a collection of articles rather than a cohesive whole, an
                         impression amplified by "Conclusion" sections at the end
                         of four of the chapters, instead of a concluding chapter to pull everything
                         together. The book is heavily footnoted, in the style of a law review
                         article, with citations to cases found in The Law Practice of
                              Abraham Lincoln, which may prove distracting to lay readers.
                         These minor points aside, An Honest Calling is an
                         auspicious start to the new era of Lincoln legal studies.
                    GERALD J. PROKOPOWICZ, J.D., Ph.D., is an associate professor of history
                         at East Carolina University, 
                              Greenville
                         , 
                              North
                                   Carolina
                         , and the author of Did Lincoln Own Slaves?
                         (2008). 
               
               
                    Packing Them In An Archaeology of Environmental Racism
                              in 
                                   Chicago
                              , 1865-1954 By Sylvia Hood Washington (
                              Lanham
                         , 
                              Md.
                         : Lexington Books, 2005. Pp. 215. Illustrations, index.
                         Clothbound, $66.00; paperbound, $21.95.)
                    
                              Chicago
                          is one of the most notorious sites of racial violence and
                         segregation in the 
                              United States
                         . Historically, most of this tension has centered on housing
                         and on the maintenance of neighborhood racial boundaries by whites. Thus it
                         is no surprise that the practice of relegating people of color to areas
                         crowded with polluting factories and other locally unwanted land uses-
                         environmental racism- is also widespread in that city. Sylvia
                         Washington's Packing Them In provides strong,
                         sometimes startling evidence of environmental racism in 
                              Chicago
                         , and offers a historical explanation for how this social ill
                         developed in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries.
                    Drawing from Michel Foucault's concepts of power/knowledge, as well
                         as from biopolitics and theories of racial formation, Washington argues
                         that non-whites are constructed outside of the parameters of the body
                         politic. Since racialization is a socio-historical process, many groups
                         previously defined as non-white (e.g., Irish, European Jews, and other
                         immigrants) were later reclassified as white, in the process becoming less
                         vulnerable to environmental racism This
                         argument represents a significant contribution to environmental justice
                         studies and suggests a comparative and relational ethnic studies approach
                         to future treatments of the subject.
                    Washington notes that few environmental historians have paid sufficient
                         attention to the problem of environmental racism; many of those who do
                         locate the birth of the environmental justice movement in the late 1970s or
                         early 1980s. However, Washington offers clear support for her contention
                         that the movement was evident as early as the late nineteenth century, when
                         European immigrant populations in 
                              Chicago's
                          Back of the Yards community of Packingtown protested the
                         practice of locating slaughterhouses and their associated effluence in
                         close proximity to their homes.
                    Readers also learn that the Chicago Urban League was deeply involved in early
                         environmental justice struggles through its Urban Conservation Movement
                         effort in the 1940s and 1950s. The League developed a range of responses to
                         the local environmental racism that African Americans encountered, which
                         included dilapidated and segregated housing and proximity to many vice
                         operations. The League rejected the idea of restrictive covenants,
                         advocating for African Americans to have the freedom to live where they
                         pleased, and it challenged the laws that had produced the city's
                         "Black Belt." On the other hand, by embracing the
                         development of racially exclusive public housing projects for African
                         Americans (believed, at the time, to be a progressive way to fight blight
                         and achieve healthy neighborhoods), the League reinforced racial
                         segregation and restricted group mobility, which later enabled contemporary
                         environmental racism. The League also sponsored anti-litter campaigns and
                         "block beautiful" contests, wherein residents would
                         compete for the honor of having the most impressive gardens. This is what
                         some environmental sociologists have termed a
                         "cosmetological" approach - activism that fails to
                         challenge the institutional practices that produce environmental
                         inequalities. However, taken together, this combination of tactics paints a
                         complex portrait of an organization some might otherwise consider
                         exclusively devoted to civil rights or social service, when in fact, the
                         Urban League was much more than that.
                    The book's title suggests that external forces may be responsible
                         for "packing" people of color into polluted
                         neighborhoods, but Washington maintains that African Americans and European
                         immigrants often voluntarily "packed" themselves into
                         spaces that were later burdened by polluting businesses or industrial
                         wastes. Some scholars will find this claim controversial, but others will
                         applaud Washington for presenting such viewpoints and evidence. Packing Them In is a welcome addition to the fields of environmental history and
                         environmental justice studies.
                    DAVID NAGUIB PELLOW is Professor of Ethnic Studies, University of
                         California, San Diego.
               
               
                    A Good Day's WorkAn 
                                   Iowa
                               Farm in the Great Depression By Dwight W.
                         Hoover (
                              Chicago
                         : Ivan R. Dee, 2007. Pp. vii, 211. Illustrations, index.
                         $26.00.)
                    In this richly detailed accounting of the ways of another time, Dwight Hoover
                         shares with us his youthful experiences of life on an 
                              Iowa
                          farm in the 1930s. The work was often difficult, even
                         grueling, but for a bright and thoughtful boy it was the stuff of a strong
                         foundation and, for us, a fine memoir.
                    The book is divided into the seasons of the year interspersed with chapters
                         called respites, which add depth and context to the story. Few of us have
                         had anything like the experiences of the author, and whatever our
                         romanticized notions of the workings of a family farm may be, they are put
                         to the test by this keen remembrance of both work and respite.
                    Although quite different in style and purpose, the book calls to mind Hamlin
                         Garland's Middle Border stories of the late nineteenth century.
                         But this work is written by one of the country's leading social
                         historians about a time of great transition on the farm. It is, in a way, a
                         memorial to a whole order of American experience. The changes in farming
                         brought on by social and economic conditions and perhaps most of all by
                         mechanization are laid out by one who grew up in the midst of them. Not
                         always knowing how to cope with the often mind-boggling changes underway,
                         shackled by mortgages, the family weathered on, and indeed persevered, by
                         employing what Hoover declares to be, "A Good Day's
                         Work."
                    What did that work entail? The plowing and disking of fields, the stages of
                         cultivation of corn, haying from the planting to the loft, are all covered.
                         Livestock care, management, and slaughter are vividly described, sometimes
                         too much so for urban sensibilities. Ever wonder why there aren't
                         as many barns in today's countryside? Read this book. It also
                         provides an understanding of a farm boy's relationship to
                         organizations that taught a life of agriculture. The author competitively
                         raised and showed sheep while participating in 4-H and Future Farmers of
                         America. His remembrances of these clubs indicates that they taught him
                         valuable lessons.
                    
                    After World War II and graduation from college, Hoover concluded that farming
                         was not for him, and he gives a heartfelt description of this crucial
                         choice. There are basic truths to Hoover's story beyond the life
                         of an 
                              Iowa
                          youth. What was true in 
                              Iowa
                          was also true in 
                              Indiana
                          and across the nation. Today we are experiencing transitional
                         upheavals in agriculture that are just as revolutionary, and Dr.
                         Hoover's story can still be instructive.
                    In 1927, Uncle Dave Macon recorded a song that included these lyrics:
                         "The one room schoolhouse I've been told/Is raising quite
                         an alarm/Cause you get a country boy educated/And he ain't gonna
                         work at the farm." Dwight Hoover's choice was not as
                         simple and direct, but he still chose not to work at the farm. He became a
                         historian instead, and his boyhood experiences helped him to do so.
                    JAMES TRULOCK is a former president of the Indianapolis Civil War Round
                         Table and appears on the History Channel's Civil War
                              Journal series. He edited and wrote the introduction to a 1993
                         reprint of The History of the 83rd Pennsylvania Infantry
                              Regiment.
               
               
                    Slavery and Politics in the Early Republic By
                         Matthew Mason (
                              Chapel
                                   Hill
                         : University of North Carolina Press, 2006. Pp. xii, 339.
                         Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. $45.00.)
                    The debates over slavery appear in 
                              U.S.
                          history textbooks and survey courses at a few selected points.
                         The founders bickered about the peculiar institution during the
                         Constitutional Convention, laying down markers that would frame debates for
                         generations, but after 1790 those issues were safely swept under the rug.
                         In 1819 slavery briefly returned to politics with the debates over the
                         Missouri Compromise, but the issue really did not enter national political
                         discourse until the 1830s, and the sectional crisis emerged as a serious
                         threat only in the 1850s. Or so the story goes.
                    In this deeply researched monograph, Matthew Mason challenges conventional
                         wisdom by shifting our gaze from the immediate antebellum years to the
                         first decades of the Early Republic. Through a close reading of political
                         speeches, pamphlets, and newspaper editorials, Mason demonstrates that
                         slavery never disappeared from public discussions. Politicians on both
                         sides of the political aisle routinely found ways to use the peculiar
                         institution to their advantage. In the early nineteenth century, national
                         and international debates about slavery shaped regional differences between
                         the North and the South (and within the
                         North), while also becoming a crucial aspect of Anglo-American
                         dialogue.
                    In the immediate post-Revolutionary decades, slavery expanded steadily across
                         the South without significant popular resistance even while abolitionist
                         sentiment, framed largely as a principled opposition to the slave trade,
                         gained a foothold. After the Louisiana Purchase, some Federalists dabbled
                         with tarring Republicans with a pro-slavery brush, but the issue gained
                         little political traction. With the War of 1812, New England Federalists
                         expanded their critique of slavery, adding a more emphatic moral critique
                         to their assault on the Republicans while assailing the constitutional
                         system of slave representation, thus raising sectional tensions. These
                         discussions posed particular challenges for northern Republicans, who
                         sought to defend their party without yoking it to a defense of slavery. The
                         Anglo-American conflict shaped debates, as Americans smarted at charges
                         that slavery illustrated a moral deficiency, prompting nationalistic
                         counterattacks while also exacerbating sectional tensions. Mason also notes
                         the significance of African American agency. Black rebellions and
                         repressive responses by southern whites provided an important context for
                         national debates about race and slavery.
                    The years between the War of 1812 and the passage of the Missouri Compromise
                         saw the coalescing of the sectional conflict, triggered by the postwar
                         expansion of slavery. The various regions within the North diverged in
                         their responses. Mason finds that New Englanders, safely insulated from the
                         taint of slavery, "struck a note of complacency," whereas
                         whites in the Mid-Atlantic acted to cleanse themselves from the
                         institution's enduring remnants. Residents of the northwestern
                         states saw a real peril in slavery's dramatic expansion. What was
                         to keep it from crossing the Ohio River and corrupting their shores? In response to
                         rising antislavery rhetoric, southern whites perfected new aggressive
                         strategies, including a strong case for states' rights.
                    These political debates came to a head in the extended discussion of the
                         Missouri Compromise. Mason's core claim is that the sectional
                         arguments that emerged in 1819-1820 had their roots in the previous several
                         decades, but that during those vigorous national debates the two sides
                         honed their rhetoric, dispensed with the worst contradictions, and
                         generally upped the ante. In the subsequent forty years, the slave debates
                         grew more vociferous as the sectional crisis mounted and the nation sped
                         towards civil war. Along the way, the debates over slavery evolved and grew
                         more heated, but their fundamental rhetorical shape remained in place. Slavery and Politics in the Early American Republic is
                         a valuable corrective to the familiar focus on the antebellum years.
                         Although readers familiar with the issues will not find the con-  clusions startling, Mason has done an
                         excellent job of assembling and presenting a wealth of evidence in a clear,
                         coherent fashion.
                    J. MATTHEW GALLMAN is professor of history at the University of Florida,
                         Gainesville. 
               
               
                    Festivals of Freedom Memory and Meaning in African
                              American Emancipation Celebrations, 1808-1915 By Mitch
                         Kachun (
                              Amherst
                         : University of Massachusetts Press, 2006. Pp. xii, 339.
                         Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. $39.95.)
                    Mitch Kachun draws on a rich collection of primary sources to explore the
                         ways in which African Americans sought to "create and
                         perpetuate" a usable past through public celebration and
                         commemorative ritual (p. 7). Beginning with the abolition of the Atlantic
                         slave trade and ending with the fiftieth anniversary of the abolition of
                         slavery, Kachun explains how African Americans sought to use such public
                         displays both to celebrate emancipation and to commemorate their
                         distinctive past. Kachun also argues that the scope and nature of freedom
                         festivals changed in the wake of emancipation. In addition to the
                         traditions of activism and protest that had characterized antebellum
                         celebrations, African Americans also sought to foster race pride and uplift
                         as Reconstruction gave way to Jim Crow. In the author's hands,
                         these freedom festivals become a vehicle for understanding how African
                         Americans strove to agitate for emancipation, to create a coherent racial
                         identity and history, and to combat the postbellum proliferation of racist
                         caricatures (p. 6).
                    In presenting this larger narrative, Kachun deftly reveals the
                         often-overlooked complexity and tension that lay underneath this history.
                         Freedom festival organizers simultaneously struggled to craft a distinct
                         African American identity while demonstrating a basic Americanness to the
                         broader society. Like other recent works in African American history that
                         accentuate the complexity of racial identity, Kachun's work helps
                         to give greater dimension to African Americans' struggle to carve
                         out a place in American society. The study also raises important questions
                         of class. As festival organizers pushed first for emancipation and then
                         nondiscrimination, they became increasingly concerned with eradicating
                         slave culture and instilling Christian morality (especially in freedmen).
                         Kachun also explains, however, that festival organizers subscribed to
                         "a moral vision that was often at odds with the lives of the  masses of black Americans whose value
                         systems had been largely shaped under the peculiar institution"
                         (p. 5).
                    Though the voices of women are mostly silent and the issue of gender is
                         largely absent from this book, Festivals of Freedom is a
                         very good study of how African Americans have sought to use public space
                         and the public sphere to advance freedom and equality. Kachun's
                         use of editorials from African American newspapers and the texts of Freedom
                         Day speeches is particularly engaging. Readers interested in African
                         American history, African Americans' transition from slavery to
                         freedom, African American identity and historical consciousness, and
                         African American institutional life would benefit from reading this
                         book.
                    CORNELIUS BYNUM is assistant profes- sor of history at Purdue
                         University.
               
               
                    Copperhead Gore Benjamin Wood's Fort
                         Lafayette and Civil War 
                                   America
                               Edited by Menahem Blondheim (
                              Bloomington
                         : Indiana University Press, 2006. Pp. xi, 292. Appendices,
                         glossary, notes. Clothbound, $55.00; paperbound, $21.95.)
                    "An interesting cultural artifact" is a euphemism literary
                         critics sometimes use for a piece of literature that is a dog artistically
                         but has value for what it illuminates about the society that produced it.
                         Such is the case with Fort Lafayette; or, Love and
                              Secession, a Civil War novel published in 1862 by Benjamin Wood,
                         Democratic 
                              U.S.
                          congressman from 
                              New
                                   York
                         , owner-editor of The New York Daily News,
                         and a Copperhead.
                    Menahem Blondheim, of the departments of American Studies and Communication
                         at Hebrew University of Jerusalem, has exhumed Wood's
                         long-forgotten novel, added an extensive introduction and glossary, and
                         appended two of Wood's anti-war congressional speeches. The result
                         is an eye-opening overview of the Copperhead movement, particularly in 
                              New
                                   York
                         , during the war.
                    The action of Fort Lafayette is painfully melodramatic much
                         of the time. Deathbed scenes read like shameless lifts from Uncle Tom's Cabin, and in another nod to Harriet
                         Beecher Stowe, Wood includes an exciting cross-river chase with a slave
                         trader in hot pursuit. The characters, both good and bad, are exceedingly
                         flat. The protagonists exist primarily to present representative views from
                         1861 of the impending conflict. There's the lovely Southern belle,
                         fiercely loyal to the Southern cause and to her paternalistic version of
                         slavery; her fiance, a northerner equally opposed to secession; her brother, a Southern moderate, opposed
                         to the war but loyal to his native 
                              Virginia
                         ; and, finally, their friend from 
                              Vermont
                         , a pacifist opposed to participation in war in general, yet
                         physically courageous, morally superior, romantically intriguing, and, yes,
                         holding views which reflect those of the author himself. Even with its 1862
                         publication date (Manassas being the only large-scale clash to have taken
                         place during its composition), Fort Lafayette contains
                         the classic Civil War motifs of brother killing brother and friend clashing
                         with friend. Despite the cliches, what is of great value about these
                         characters is that their views are fairly nuanced and give the reader some
                         feel for the variety of opinions that existed prior to the war.
                    In his preface, Blondheim claims that "Fort
                              Lafayette is at one and the same time an action-packed thriller
                         and an intellectually complex and intriguing literary work reflecting
                         important trends in political thought ... [it] can surely stand on its own
                         as a gripping story and a profound ideological statement" (pp.
                         viii-ix). Fortunately, in the comprehensive and very readable introduction
                         that follows, the author does not mount a defense of the novel as great
                         literature, but instead sets it in historical, political, and biographical
                         (for indeed Benjamin Wood's own life was rife with material for
                         several page-turners) contexts. Blondheim also places the work within the
                         current field of border studies, effectively demonstrating both the
                         significance and moral unity of the variety and type of North-South border
                         crossings associated with Wood's novel, his newspaper, and his
                         life. Ultimately, claims Blondheim, Fort
                              Lafayette's "line crossing comes to signify the
                         point of conflict between the morally sanctioned and humane [i.e.
                         Wood's anti-war views] and the tyrannical and criminal
                         [Lincoln's refusal to tolerate secession] on the other"
                         (p. 28).
                    Fort Lafayette provides an immensely entertaining, but
                         decidedly un-literary, and instructive look at the Copperhead movement.
                         Menahem Blondheim has added real value to this deservedly forgotten
                         cultural artifact.
                    DAVID M. OWENS, Associate Professor of English, Valparaiso University,
                         is the author of The Devil's Topographer: Ambrose
                              Bierce and the American War Story (2006) and is currently
                         researching the impact of original publication venues on Civil War
                         fiction.
               
               
               
                    Popular Eugenics National Efficiency and American Mass
                              Culture in the 1930s By Susan Currell and Christina
                         Cogdell (
                              Athens
                         : Ohio University Press, 2006. Pp. x, 406. Illustrations,
                         index. Clothbound, $69.95; paperbound, $28.95.)
                    
                              Indiana's
                          1907 enactment of the first eugenic sterilization law in the
                         world has been discussed recently in the pages of the IMH, but readers may want to know more about what came after that
                         first step. Susan Currell and Christiana Cogdell's Popular Eugenics: National Efficiency and American Mass Culture in
                              the 1930s offers an interesting look at what happened to the
                         national eugenics movement in the years that followed.
                    The book's edited contributions cover a wide spectrum of eugenic -
                         influenced movements. Indeed, as Currell and Cogdell explain, the 1930s was
                         a pivotal period in American eugenic thought, as the movement began to
                         grapple with how to widely apply its vision to the country. Should it
                         continue to focus on preventive, or negative eugenics? Or, could the
                         American environment be altered in order to produce a eugenically sound
                         populace? As the various authors show, this debate was far from academic,
                         as by the 1930s the notion of eugenics affected virtually all of American
                         culture and life. Americans were looking at the world around them and
                         debating the problems associated with the Depression in eugenic terms.
                     The contributors to the volume discuss this dialogue in very different and
                         interesting ways. From looking at the Cooper Hewitt trial; to examining the
                         meanings that Americans assigned to Franklin Roosevelt's triumph
                         over polio; to a study of the notion that a better educated gener- al
                         populace might create a eugenic utopia; to a look at the effects that
                         eugenic thought had on the South (the book includes three wonderful
                         chapters on this region)-the first section of Popular
                              Eugenics offers a varied yet intriguing analysis both of how
                         eugenics was understood and of its complexity as a movement. The second
                         section of the book deals more specifically with the degree to which
                         eugenic thought permeated American visual culture. Readers will be treated
                         to discussions of statuary, the colon as a eugenic device, the eugenic
                         dimensions of teeth (and its relationship to criminality), as well as a
                         look at how Hollywood, both in its horror films and musical comedies, dealt
                         with eugenics. The book ends with a chapter on what became of an exhibit,
                         popular in Nazi 
                              Germany
                         , that toured the 
                              United States
                          prior to the Second World War, reminding readers of one path
                         that eugenics took.
                    In short, a variety of readers will find this book to be of use and interest.
                         Currell and Cogdell do a wonderful job of showcasing the complexity of the eugenic movement during the
                         1930s. More importantly, they do a service to readers by showing that even
                         as eugenicists endured a widening public critique, they never lost their
                         general sense of racial and class superiority or bias. In many ways, even
                         as the movement changed, it stayed remarkably the same. That eugenics moved
                         so quickly from its 
                              Indiana
                          start to its eventual status as a mainstream nationwide
                         movement is a very unsettling fact that the book's contributors
                         display for all to see.
                    JASON S. LANTZER, Department of History, Indiana University-Indianapolis
                         and Butler University, 
                              Indianapolis
                         , is the author of "The Other Side of Campus: Indiana
                         University's Student Right and the Rise of National
                         Conservativism," which appeared in the June 2005 IMH.
               
               
                    Republican Women Feminism and Conservatism From Suffrage
                              Through the Rise of the New Right By Catherine E. Rymph (
                              Chapel
                                   Hill
                         : University of North Carolina Press, 2006. Pp. xi, 339.
                         Illustrations, notes, index. $24.95.)
                    Catherine Rymph has produced a tightly focused monograph on the role of
                         Republican women in shaping the political culture of the party over the
                         course of the twentieth century. Rymph is concerned with describing the
                         moral crusades of GOP clubwomen - women who operated outside the party
                         structure and who concerned themselves with advancing an agenda of female
                         consciousness. She also suitably describes the activism of party women who
                         operated within the party structure and sought to shape its internal
                         policies and platforms.
                    The book is focused mostly on the tensions between clubwomen and party women
                         in constructing policies, both within and outside the party, that might
                         maximize benefits for women. Rymph has done a solid job contextualizing the
                         disputes between women's factions and documenting how these
                         disputes, typically over issues of full integration within the wider party,
                         or issues of morality and "women's concerns,"
                         fit within the wider GOP landscape.
                    The book works best in detailing the varied attitudes of clubwomen and party
                         women on a variety of different topics, from suffrage to abortion. Rymph
                         explores the political tumults over control of the National Federation of
                         Republican Women, particularly over the controversial dispute between
                         conservative Phyllis Schlafly, who lost the presidential election of the
                         organization in 1967,  and the more
                         liberal delegates to the convention.
                    One of the author's more interesting stories concerns those GOP
                         women who remained committed to feminist causes including abortion rights
                         and the Equal Rights Amendment, even as the party shifted to the Right on
                         such issues during the 1970s. As the overall party became more
                         conservative, the women within the GOP became more liberal; one result of
                         this shift was the election of liberal activist Mary Louise Smith to the
                         leadership of the Republican National Committee in 1976. Conservative women
                         like Schlafly, who still remained a Republican delegate, focused their
                         attention on grassroots activism outside the party (such as STOP-ERA and
                         Eagle Forum).
                    In the end, as Rymph relates, the conservative factions would prevail and
                         drive feminists away from the GOP. Rymph concludes that "what was
                         required for women finally to become a force in the party was the context
                         of the social movements of the 1960s and 1970s (both on the left and the
                         right)" (p. 249).
                    This book makes a contribution to understanding women's limited
                         roles within party politics before the "second wave
                         feminism" of the 1970s. It is a well-researched example of how
                         gender concerns can be integrated with political history. But it leaves one
                         hungry for a more encompassing explanation of how activist women- on both
                         the Right and the Left- increasingly operated outside of party
                         politics.
                    Increasingly, the history of women's grassroots activism, as it has
                         been treated in books like Donald Critchlow's Phyllis
                              Schlafly and Grassroots Conservatism: A Woman's
                         Crusade(2005) and Lisa McGirr's Suburban
                              Warriors (2001) tells historians far more about how party
                         activism, religious beliefs, and social issues affected women's
                         activism in politics than does Rymph's complex study of the
                         internal dimensions of women's politics in the GOP. That does not
                         make her study any less important. But Republican Women
                         is limited in what it sets out to examine and, in the end, unsatisfying in
                         its conclusions.
                    GREGORY L. SCHNEIDER is associate professor of history at Emporia State
                         University, 
                              Kansas
                         .
               
               
                    The New Town Square Museums and Communities in
                              Transition By Robert R. Archibald (
                              Walnut
                                   Creek
                         , 
                              Calif.
                         : AltaMira Press, 2004. Pp. viii, 224. Illustrations, index.
                         Paperbound, $24.95.)
                    Robert Archibald is well-known in his role as president of the Missouri
                         Historical Society as well as for his prior book, A Place to
                              Remember: Using History to Build
                              Community (1999). The New Town Square is an
                         edited compendium of Archibald's lectures and radio pieces on the
                         interrelated themes of change, community, and memory. Specifically,
                         Archibald meditates on the ways in which 
                              America's
                          changing communities, where suburban sprawl has replaced the
                         town square, erase the memories and the places that hold individuals
                         together.
                    Archibald begins the book with a discussion of the importance of place in
                         human life. He explores how narratives embedded in place give meaning to
                         artifacts, creating communal history as well as establishing a connection
                         between localities and their museums. In fact, one of the best features of
                         the text is the evocation of spaces from Archibald's own past-
                         especially 
                              Ishpeming
                          on 
                              Michigan's
                          Upper Peninsula, rural areas of 
                              Montana
                         , and urban neighborhoods of 
                              St.
                                   Louis
                         . The images in these passages bolster Archibald's
                         argument for stewardship of the land as part of historic preservation.
                    The lush, oral quality of Archibald's descriptions reminds readers
                         that the book began as disparate lectures, which, unfortunately, is the
                         source of the book's greatest weaknesses as well. There is nothing
                         particularly original about Archibald's argument that development
                         is ruining the land and breaking up communities; similarly, his insistence
                         that progress is not necessarily good is trite. Despite editing, the
                         chapters repeat each other. References to the Luddites recur, as do such
                         pat phrases as "a burden and a legacy."
                    Archibald's chapter on diversity, "Sharing the
                         Story," stands out for bringing into the text an understanding of
                         multiculturalism. 
                              St.
                                   Louis's
                          history functions as an intersection for the narratives of
                         privileged whites, such as Thomas Jefferson, and the experiences of
                         minorities, such as the African Americans who used the city's
                         segregated, public Homer G. Phillips Hospital. Archibald's
                         strategies for diversifying the Missouri Historical Society, also
                         documented in this chapter, create a model for other institutions to follow
                         in their creation of a place where all community voices might be heard, or
                         a "new town square." However, this chapter in some ways
                         contradicts Archibald's repeated emphasis on the commonality of
                         human experience as a necessity in building communities and preserving
                         public history. Archibald stresses these commonalities even as he decries
                         the homogenization of American life. This emphasis is further problematic
                         because it overlooks the fact that, throughout American history, a reliance
                         on shared aspects of culture has led to the valuing of dominant beliefs and
                         practices over the discordant or different. For instance, he criticizes the
                         destruction of old neighborhoods in urban 
                              St.
                                   Louis
                          and the subsequent construction of characterless suburban
                         buildings, without noting that the denizens of some of the tenements he
                         romanticizes lived in unhealthy conditions.
                    
                    The New Town Square is best, then, considered as a memoir,
                         a compilation of the author's recollections of places, artifacts,
                         and individuals interspersed with ruminations on change and community.
                         Viewed from this perspective, the book offers informative and entertaining
                         vignettes that convey at once the author's personality and a sense
                         of the distinctiveness of the sites he has inhabited, turning the book
                         itself into a crossroads of 
                              America
                         , a new and exciting town square.
                    AMY LEVIN is director of Women's Studies and chair of the
                         Museum Studies Committee at Northern Illinois University, 
                              DeKalb
                         . Her most recent book is an edited collection of articles, Defining Memory: Local Museums and the Construction of
                              History in 
                                   America's
                               Changing Communities (2007).
               
               
                    Encyclopedia of North American Railroads
                         Edited by William D. Middleton, George M. Smerk, and Roberta L. Diehl (
                              Bloomington
                         : Indiana University Press, 2007. Pp. xii, 1281. Illustrations,
                         references, appendices, index. $99.95.)
                    An assemblage of North
                              America's best railroad historians has produced an
                         exceptionally fine reference source on the industry they (and millions
                         around the world) love. The encyclopedia includes more than one thousand
                         pages of alphabetical entries on railroad companies, railroad executives,
                         railroad technology and engineering, construction, management, labor,
                         operations, locomotives and cars, railroad builders and suppliers, railroad
                         business practices, railroad regulation and political economy, and more.
                         Entries on railroad signaling and operations are extensive enough to show a
                         complete novice how it all works. The emphasis on North America allows
                         for extensive entries on 
                              Canada
                          and 
                              Mexico
                         , as well as smaller ones on 
                              Central America and the
                              Caribbean, although the encyclopedia is primarily 
                              U.S.
                         -oriented.
                    Among the entries are a number of unexpected but fascinating items- for
                         example, those focused on agricultural development, argot (slang),
                         architecture, and art - and that is just the letter A. There are entries on
                         the circus, cinema, even opera - the latter including a wonderful picture
                         of diva Mary Garden and the entire Metropolitan Opera entourage high in the
                              Bitterroot
                              Mountains on their special Milwaukee Road train en route to
                         the West Coast. There is an entry on Alexander Hamilton, who died long
                         before the railroad was invented but whose policies laid the foundation of
                         the great national economy that the railroad would eventually make
                         possible. There are entries on women, sports, health, even the fish cars
                         that were used to stock distant water- sheds. So much information is packed in each of these entries that the
                         extensive index is indispensable.
                    One of the best features is a series of introductory essays - one on railroad
                         development, one on the social impact of the railroad (the many ways it
                         touched the lives of people), two on technology, and one on the
                         transformation of the railroad since 1970. These essays give a thoughtful
                         overview of matters that many who care about trains often know little
                         about.
                    This work is not only packed with information, but it is just plain fun to
                         flip from entry to entry, letting your curiosity wander. It is a must for
                         anyone with a mature interest in railroads. It is also an excellent point
                         of entry for anyone developing an interest in railroads (starting at about
                         age 12).
                    Problems are trumped by the book's great strengths. There is not
                         nearly enough on the economics of railroads - what the companies and their
                         workers actually did for a living. The maps are weak, not because they are
                         bad maps but because they are placed in a single appendix at the back of
                         the book. Telling a railroad story requires a map specific to the details
                         under discussion in front of the reader. Statistics are weak - like the
                         maps, they are grouped in a single appendix. They are minimal and break
                         nothing down by individual railroad. Some entries seem not to have grasped
                         the changes that have transformed the industry in the last thirty years.
                         For example, an entry on marketing talks only about the promotion of
                         passenger trains through the 1950s. Today the concept of marketing is a
                         tool to sell freight service that includes a precise knowledge of costs, so
                         that a railroad knows exactly how low it can bid on particular kinds of
                         traffic and still make money. There is duplication. For example, an entry
                         on Canadian railroad development plows much the same territory as the
                         entries on the Canadian National and Canadian Pacific Railways that precede
                         it. There are disturbing omissions. For example, on the list of significant
                         railroad accidents, the wreck of the Broker in 1951 is
                         not included, even though the Pennsylvania Railroad was indicted on
                         eighty-three counts of manslaughter in 
                              New
                                   Jersey
                          and a national spotlight was thrown on the enveloping problems
                         of what was then the nation's premier carrier.
                    Nevertheless, this volume is a must investment and an important addition to
                         any railroad library.
                    RICHARD SAUNDERS JR., is professor of history at Clemson University. He
                         is the author of Merging Lines and Main Lines (2003) on
                         the changing economics of North American railroads in the century.
               
               
               
                    LETTERS
                    
                         
                              
                                   
                                        To the Editor:
                                        Kenneth Gros Louis's otherwise informative
                                             September 2007 article on higher educational trends and
                                             developments is marred by a significant error on page
                                             294. This error sees Gros Louis misrepresent works by
                                             Allan Bloom, Roger Kimball, and Charles Sykes as being
                                             attacks on higher education for supposedly placing
                                             greater emphasis on research instead of classroom
                                             instruction.
                                        What these authors and subsequent conservative and
                                             classical liberal criticisms of higher education are
                                             actually attacking is the growing leftist totalitarian
                                             intellectual atmosphere at many universities
                                             manifesting itself in university curriculum. Such
                                             curriculum emphasizes the alleged depravity of
                                             Anglo-Saxon males in cultural and political development
                                             and seeks to portray women and others who are not of
                                             white ethnic derivation as being victims of purported
                                             Anglo-Saxon hegemony. Examples of courses with such
                                             viewpoints include "Contemporary Political
                                             Problems: Feminist Theory" and
                                             "Gender and Literature" currently
                                             being offered at Purdue University, "American
                                             Sexual Histories" and "Politics of
                                             Gender and Sexuality" currently being offered
                                             at Indiana University, a "Theory and Practice
                                             of Community Studies" course at the University
                                             of California-Santa Cruz which teaches students how to
                                             "organize revolution," a
                                             proliferation of "peace studies"
                                             programs which seek to legitimize the grievances of
                                             American enemies, and numerous other examples
                                             accessible at the Students for Academic Freedom website
                                             www.studentsforacademicfreedom.org
                                        Gros Louis's article would have been
                                             strengthened if he had recognized the exact nature and
                                             intent of these critiques instead of paint brushing
                                             them as being criticism of higher education. The
                                             leftist politicization of university instructional
                                             curriculum and academic research since the  1960s is a serious
                                             problem which should be addressed by any substantive
                                             assessment of contemporary higher education instruction
                                             and research.
                                        
                                             BERT CHAPMAN
                                             Lafayette, Indiana
                                        
                                   
                              
                         
                    
               
          
          
               
               
               
               
          
     
