
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 47, Issue 2, pages 129-238. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:47+issue:2+year:1951&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Historical Background of the Restrictions Against State Debt in the Indiana Constitution of 1851
            Donald F. Cannony∗
            One of the more significant provisions of the present constitution of Indiana is Section 5 of Article
                    10: "No law shall authorize any debt to be contracted, on behalf of the State, except in
                    the following cases: To meet casual deficits in the revenue; to pay interest on the State debt; to
                    repel invasion, suppress insurrection, or, if hostilities be threatened, provide for public
                        defense."1
            
            These restrictions are probably unwise but their inclusion in the Constitution of 1851 stemmed
                    directly from Indiana's experience with the Internal Improvements System of 1836 and the
                    catastrophic fiscal consequences which resulted therefrom. Such limitations on state legislatures
                    are characteristic of the state constitutions formed at mid-century under the spell of Jacksonian
                        Democracy.2 Indiana's experience with her internal improvements
                    debt differed only in degree from the experience which 
                  Ohio, Illinois
               , and 
                        Michigan
                     had with 
                  
                     ∗ Donald F. Carmony is associate dean of the division of
                            adult education and public services, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana. This paper was read at the history session at the annual meeting of
                            the Indiana Academy of Social Sciences at 
                                Muncie
                            , Indiana, on November 4, 1950.
                  
                     1 Charles Kettleborough (ed.), Constitution Making in
                                Indiana (3 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916, 1930), I, 352. These are volumes I, II, and XVII in the Indiana
                            Historical Collections.
                  
                  
                     2 Francis N. Thorpe (ed.), The Federal and State
                                Constitutions … (7 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1909). Constitutional restrictions in the contemporary constitutions of
                                    
                        Ohio, Illinois
                     , and 
                                Michigan
                            , may be found respectively in V, 2925-2926; II, 1020-1021; IV, 1962-1963.
                            Frederic L. Paxson's "A Constitution of Democracy—
                                Wisconsin
                            , 1847," in the 
                        Mississippi Valley
                                Historical Review (
                        Cedar Rapids,
                                    Iowa
                     , 1914-), II (1915-1916),
                            3-24, indicates the role of Jacksonian democracy on such constitutions. See especially pages
                            3-5.
               
                     the same problem.3 These three states, and
                    many others, also have constitutional restrictions against state debts.
            We are conditioned to thinking in terms of millions of dollars when viewing state finances and of
                    billions when considering federal revenues and expenditures. This makes it almost impossible for us
                    to comprehend the limited expenditures and revenues required to support the territorial and early
                    state government. The total cost of the territorial government, during the sixteen years from its
                    establishment, in 1800, until statehood in 1816, averaged less than ten thousand dollars yearly and
                    approximately two-thirds of this amount was provided directly from the federal treasury.4 During the first decade of statehood it cost about twenty-five thousand
                    dollars annually to operate the state government, while the average yearly cost increased to about
                    one hundred twenty thousand dollars by the mid-thirties, including expenditures arising from the
                    sales of land received from the federal government as subsidies for various purposes. The annual
                    reports of the state treasurer have not been carefully analyzed and tabulated for the mid-thirties
                    but it is roughly estimated that the "ordinary" expenses of the state government
                    which were provided by landholders and citizens of the state did not exceed a maximum of
                    seventy-five thousand dollars annually.5 The preceding totals and estimates for
                    territorial and state expenditures do not include the costs arising from local government.
            These very limited expenditures are merely an index of the meager economic, political, and social
                    resources of frontier Indiana. Indiana was a debtor area and its people were engaged in the
                    laborious and exhausting task of conquering their physical environment. Further explanations 
                  
                     3 R. Carlyle Buley, The Old Northwest, Pioneer Period,
                                1815-1840 (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1950), chapters 7 and 8 of volume I, and chapter 12 of volume II.
                  
                     4 Donald F. Carmony, Indiana Public Finance, 1800-1826 (Ph.D.
                            dissertation, department of history, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, 1940), chapter I. Also the author's "Indiana
                            Territorial Expenditures, 1800-1816," Indiana Magazine of History (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1905-), XXXIX (1943), 237-262.
                  
                     5 Carmony, Indiana Public Finance, chapter IV. See table following
                            page 165 for summary of expenditures during the first decade of statehood. For expenditures
                            at the mid-thirties see annual reports of the state treasurer: Journal of the
                                House of Representatives of the State of Indiana, 1834, pp. 69-78; Journal of the Senate of the State of Indiana, 1835, pp. 53-64; ibid., 1836, pp. 61-70.
               
                     for these exceedingly small expenditures are to be found in the
                    low price level, the meager population and the fact that the role of government was in accordance
                    with the laissez-faire traditions of Adam Smith and Thomas Jefferson. From the establishment of
                    Indiana as a separate territory in 1800 until the adoption of the Internal Improvements System in
                    1836, Hoosier revenue payers provided considerably less than one million dollars to finance the
                    territorial and state government. Direct appropriations from the federal treasury and liberal
                    subsidies through land grants loomed large in the fiscal affairs of the frontier commonwealth. New
                    Dealers increased and made new uses of federal subsidies; however, federal subsidies were gratefully
                    accepted by the early Hoosiers who often complained that the federal government could and should do
                    more to foster and support internal improvements and other desirable projects for improving their
                    economic status.
            If the expenditures for internal improvements be measured against this background, and with general
                    regard to frontier conditions, their magnitude becomes apparent. To understand the internal
                    improvements muddle and the resulting constitutional restrictions against state debt we must look
                    back from 1851. Comparison with our present state finances will blind us to the realities and
                    limitations of the half century preceding the adoption of the 1851 constitution. Historians continue
                    to argue whether history really teaches men anything; certainly the debt restriction section of our
                    constitution is ample evidence that historical experience at least greatly influences human conduct
                    and policy.
            The frontier faced many problems. Perhaps the basic economic problem was that of transportation.
                    Until arteries of transportation could be developed it would not be possible to exchange the surplus
                    produce of the soil for imports or dollars necessary to pay for land, establish business, support
                    government, build roads and canals, raise the standard of living and bring about gradual improvement
                    in the social and cultural life of the pioneers. It was natural that an isolated and debtor society
                    should bend its efforts toward solving the all-important transportation problem.
            Under these circumstances the attempts to improve conditions of transportation were perhaps discussed
                    with as much interest and intensity during the two decades between 1816  and 1836 as any other subject in any two decades of our history as a
                    state. Every message of every governor during this period mentioned internal improvements.
                    Committees of the assembly studied the problem and made numerous reports with increasing vigor and
                    enthusiasm in the 1830's. Newspapers included many articles concerning the need for the
                    improvement of river travel, for better roads through the forest, for better methods of road
                    building, and watched with interest and growing absorption the building of canals, roads, and
                    railroads in other states. The pro and con of railroads versus canals was debated and as the
                    internal improvements movement gained momentum it swept the Hoosiers with greater intensity and with
                    more permanent effects than some of the agues and fevers which took a heavy toll among the pioneers.
            It was generally agreed that something should be done and for years they talked about "the
                    system," and although there was 
                        Clay
                    's American System, the movement for a system of common schools, and other
                    "systems" yet "the system" meant internal improvements by the
                    1830's as clearly as "the revolution" means the revolution of the
                    1790's to a Frenchman. But how could a debtor society which lacked available funds provide
                    such a system and what would be the results of the proposed system? Some thought that the federal
                    government should build at least the national arteries for river and land travel but the policy of
                    Andrew Jackson in the early 1830's made it necessary for the states to assume primary
                    obligations for building internal improvements if such were to be provided by governmental action.
                    Even so it took some time for Hoosiers, even some of the Democratic leaders, to realize that
                    appropriations from the federal treasury for improvement of the "noble 
                        Wabash
                    " were also scheduled for the discard so far as Old Hickory was concerned.
                    During the twenties the federal government started the National Road across Indiana, approved a
                    grant of land to build a road from the 
                        Ohio
                     to 
                        Lake Michigan
                     via 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and made a liberal grant of land to finance the building of the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal. The latter was expected to provide continuous navigation from the 
                        Wabash
                     through Lake Erie and thence by way of the Erie Canal down the Hudson to 
                        New York City
                    . Meanwhile, Indiana opened many highways for land travel, assisted by the three per
                    cent fund received  from the federal government. River traffic
                    via flatboat, keel-boats, and steamboats was of great importance but the flat-boat trade took
                    Indiana's surplus to the southern markets. The "system" was designed to
                    connect Indiana with eastern markets where prices were higher and a better selection of goods could
                    be exchanged for the products of the soil.6
            
            As early as 1822, Governor William Hendricks, in addressing the assembly, rather safely said:
                    "Let us not lose sight of those great objects, to which the means of the state should at
                    some future day be devoted—The Navigation of the falls of the 
                        Ohio
                    —the improvement of the 
                        Wabash
                    , the White rivers, and other streams, and the construction of the
                    national and other roads through the state. But to these objects, great as they are, the fostering
                    hand of government cannot be extended, while its finances are embarrassed by a state
                        debt."7
            
            In 1825, 
                        New York
                     successfully completed the Erie Canal and 
                        Ohio
                     began the construction of two important canals. The internal improvements fever was
                    moving westward and it was easily caught by the Hoosiers. On November 18, 1825, the 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    
                    Indiana Palladium reported the following toast as having been given at a public
                    meeting: "The Fair— while they cultivate their external
                    graces, may they not forget that the spirit of the age is in favor of internal
                        improvement." Early in 1825, John Ewing reported from a select committee of the
                    Senate: "The statesmen and philosophers of the age, have exerted their best faculties to
                    establish the theory and the practicability of this system [internal improvements by canals],
                    combating in their progress, ignorance and prejudice, timidity and heedlessness, in all variety of
                    forms. They have moved fearlessly on, demonstrating by successful experiment its importance and
                    advantages…. The scintillations of these mighty geniuses … have visited every
                    hemisphere, and the benign influence will continue to unfold and expand the beauties of a God of
                    nature, and the 
                  
                     6 Carmony, Indiana Public Finance, chapter VIII, discusses the
                            transportation problem of the early Hoosiers and reviews the early discussion about and also
                            efforts of the pioneers to find partial solutions. Such information is also found in 
                                Logan
                             Esarey, "Internal Improvements in Early Indiana," in Indiana
                            Historical Society Publications (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1895-), V (1912), 2, especially chapters 1 and 2.
                  
                     7
                            Journal of the House of Representatives of the State of Indiana, 1828, p.
                            88.
               
                     mysteries of political economy, until the Danube like the Nile, the 
                        
                            Mississippi
                        
                     like the Thames, and the 
                        
                            Wabash
                        
                     like the Hudson, shall exhibit one great theatre of splendid and successful
                    exertion…. No part of the Union has a greater interest at stake in the final success and
                    accomplishment of this system, than the state of Indiana, and … greater facilities for,
                    or prospective advantages from internal improvements, are no where to be found."8
            
            The next year Governor James B. Ray gave much consideration to internal improvements in his annual
                    message and in his grandiloquent and flowery style pointed to the outlet through Lake Erie as the
                    best "to reduce western produce into money." The governor predicted that Indiana
                    would sustain a population of ten million and shortly Indiana's granary would be
                    overflowing and wasting for lack of a market outside the state. Indicating an awareness of the vital
                    role of transportation Ray continued: "It is evident that the settlers of a new country,
                    must be subjected to many privations and a heavy indirect tax, imposed upon them by the rude
                    deformity of surrounding nature… . Although this kind of a tax [transportation costs]
                    exceeds ten times the amount which is yearly paid for the support of the government, yet it appears
                    that it has escaped with less consideration, and more indifference… . The
                        rough appearances of nature, must be overcome, and made to yield to human enter-prize. Our
                        waters must be imprisoned in new channels, and made to subserve the essential purposes of
                        commerce." In concluding the governor exhorted: "Whilst our sisters
                    around us are rearing eternal monuments of their energies and public spirit, we have looked and
                    admired, but have been too timid to imitate ! ! !" In spite of this florid oratory the
                    governor was cautious about recommending specific steps to be taken but did urge that further
                    attention be given to the improvement of the roads.9
            
            By the mid-thirties the state was reaching the peak of a decade of prosperity. Population and
                    resources had greatly increased having jumped from about seventy-five thousand when statehood was
                    achieved to approximately one hundred forty-seven thousand in 1820 and then more than doubled 
                  
                     8
                            Journal of the Senate of the State of Indiana, 1825, pp. 168-169.
                  
                     9
                            Journal of the House of Representatives of the State of Indiana, 1826, pp.
                            41-45.
               
                     during the twenties to reach about three hundred forty-three
                    thousand in 1830. By 1840 the population totaled over six hundred eighty-three thousand. In 1832 the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal was begun and advocates of internal improvements prepared for an early
                    inauguration of a system of railroads, roads and canals which would bring the markets of the east to
                    the farmers and townsmen of Indiana.
            In 1834, Governor Noah Noble, a Whig, indicated to the assembly the kind of financial magic which he
                    thought would make it possible to build the system by tapping the available and painless resources
                    which would flow from appropriate use of public credit: "Since the beneficial policy of
                    engaging in public works for the advancement of the agricultural and commercial interests of the
                    country has been so frequently and clearly demonstrated, and while our credit is justly such as to
                    command any amount of capital at an interest of five per cent, or less, no good reason can be
                    assigned why we should longer hesitate to follow the successful examples of other States.
                            
                  New York, Pennsylvania
                and 
                        Ohio
                     had, at the commencement of their works, which have enriched their citizens
                    … but little more means or resources than their public credit… . The money
                    thus procured … immediately bene-fitted the people by being thrown into circulation in
                    payment for labor, materials and subsistence, and as soon as the works were completed, the people
                    and the States were repaid many fold by the increased demands and higher prices for their produce;
                    by the activity imparted to every branch of industry, and by the enchancement [sic] of the landed property of the country. The additional value alone of the lands in the
                    district of the country intersected by the Miami Canal in 
                        Ohio
                    , far exceeds the cost of construction. The actual wealth of a state or nation, does not
                    consist of the sums hoarded in the Treasury, but in the wealth of the citizens and their ability to
                    pay whenever the exigencies of the Government make contributions necessary. The Treasury of a well
                    managed Government, is the pockets of the people, in which something should be placed by wise
                    legislation, before much is required."10
            
            The Indiana Journal, principal Whig organ of Indiana, indicated that the spirit of
                    internal improvement was abroad in the land: "It remains for the people of Indiana to say
                        
                  
                     10
                            Ibid., 1834, p. 14.
               
                     whether we shall fall behind our sister states in public spirit
                    and enterprize. So far as we have had an opportunity to mingle with the people we have found them
                    prepared for the commencement and energetic prosecution of a liberal and judicious system of
                    internal improvements. Our state needs nothing but outlets, by means of canals and railroads, to
                    make her a populous, wealthy, and influential member of the confederacy."11
            
            Early in 1836 the mammoth internal improvements system was approved. The Indiana
                    Journal without waiting for the governor to sign, or for the two houses of the assembly to iron
                    out the differences between the bills which had passed their respective houses, gleefully announced:
                    "On Saturday night 
                        Indianapolis
                     was most brilliantly illuminated as a manifestation of joy for the passage of the bill.
                    The only cause of regret … is the fact that a respectable portion of the members of both
                    houses … felt constrained to vote against the bill on the ground that equal benefits are
                    not extended to the whole state." The Journal then prophesied:
                    "We doubt not that population and capital will flow into our state, in consequence of this
                    bill, with a rapidity hitherto wholly unexampled, and we believe many of the present generation will
                    live to see Indiana the third state in the confederacy."12
            
            Later the Journal received a report concerning the celebration at Peru:
                    "No sooner did intelligence of the passage of the General Internal Improvements Bill reach
                    us, than the expression of general joy was manifested by the symultaneous glow of light from every
                    house, hamlet, and shantee, within the town and vicinity, presenting one of the most beautiful
                    illuminations we have ever witnessed… .
            "From a spot where but twelve months ago, little else was to be seen save the dense
                    wilderness and the red man of the forest, now sending forth streams of light from at least one
                    hundred houses, accompanied with the cheer of civilization, none could fail to foster and cherish
                    the most lively hopes, for the future of a town so flourishing as Peru, on an occasion like
                        this."13
            
            Dr. R. Carlyle Buley, who has spent many years in a study of the Old Northwest, stated:
                    "Passage of the law was 
                  
                     11
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana Journal, August 28, 1885.
                  
                     12
                            Ibid., January 19, 1836.
                  
                     13
                            Ibid., February 13, 1836.
               
                     celebrated from one end of the state to the other; other states
                    hailed the enterprise and spirit of Indiana. Enthusiastic advocates of the
                    'System' had promised that not only would no additional taxes be necessary, but
                    that soon the tolls and receipts would provide the state with revenue for all purposes. Few people
                    seemed to note that the young state had voted itself a program far beyond its means."14
            
            Whigs and Democrats vied for popular favor in their support of the system. During the ensuing annual
                    session of the legislature some in both parties made strenuous efforts to broaden the system to
                    include some neglected parts of the state. When failure came, and the inability to pay principal or
                    interest haunted the taxpayers, the Democrats made effective efforts to blame the Whigs for the
                    financial ruin which existed in stark contrast to the promised arteries of commerce with revenues
                    therefrom sufficient to provide for upkeep, payment of debt, and perhaps even allow a surplus for
                    ordinary state expenditures.
            Possibly the most effective pen among the Democratic editors in the 1840's was that of E. W.
                    H. Ellis, editor of the 
                        Goshen
                    
                    Democrat. Ellis reviewed the flattering promises of improvements past local doors
                    to transport produce and roll back a tide of wealth. Ellis was partisan as he poured forth his
                    satire against the Whigs: "But what have we instead? Half-finished canals, which will not
                    pay for keeping themselves in repair—detached portions of
                    railroads—dilapidated bridges—here and there a straggling frog pond, whose
                    dismal echoes seem to forebode the wreck and ruin of which they are the monuments; and these are the
                    riches of Indiana!" Editor Ellis pinned the responsibility upon the Whigs, and with his eye
                    toward the state elections for the ensuing August, asked: "CHANGE! CHANGE! Is it not time
                    for a change? Can our situation not be bettered?—Of what use is it to plod on in the old
                    beaten path, and sink deeper at every step into the yawning gulf of ruin. For twelve long years have
                    the Whig party had possession of Indiana. They found her in her virgin beauty, the pride of the
                    Western forests. Her hardy yeomanry were free and independent. Her rich soil teemed with valuable
                    products, and the husbandman received a rich reward from her toil. But they beggared
                    her—they ruled and they ruined her—they piled a debt mountain high 
                  
                     14 Buley, The Old Northwest, II, 262.
               
                     upon her—they crushed her energies—they
                    sapped her credit, and they gnawed like hungry dogs at her vitals."15
            
            The failure of the system and the resentment of the electorate was the most important single factor
                    leading to the landslide victory of the Democrats in the election of a governor and state assembly
                    in 1843. The stigma attached to the failure of the internal improvements system was a basic reason
                    the Whigs never regained political control in Indiana.
            During 1846 and again in 1847, approximately a decade after the system had been adopted and
                    commenced, the assembly approved legislation which brought about an understanding with the
                    state's creditors and a plan for debt settlement. The 
                        Butler
                     bills, as the legislation was called after Charles Butler who carried on the
                    negotiations on behalf of many of the creditors, provided that the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal should be given to the creditors as payment for one-half of the debt
                    due. A definite plan was arranged for payment of principal and interest on the remaining debt. It
                    was a compromise arrangement which salvaged as much for the creditors as it appeared possible to
                    secure and made it possible for the state to begin the long process of debt liquidation.16 Some creditors were dissatisfied with the arrangement but they either agreed
                    or were forced to make the best of the legislation. Eventually in 1873 a constitutional amendment
                    was adopted to make certain that no further claims be paid except as agreed to in the 
                        Butler
                     bills. 17
            
            In 1849 there was a constitutional referendum regarding a proposed convention to revise the
                    constitution. In the agitation arising over this referendum many, both Democrats and Whigs, insisted
                    that if a new constitution be framed there must be strict limitation against another state debt.
                    Schuyler Colfax, Whig editor at 
                        South Bend
                     and later vice-president under Grant, thought there should be no important debt except
                    by vote of the people. Colfax explained: "The past history of our State is the best
                    argument in favor of this amendment."18
            
            
               
                  15
                        
                            Goshen
                        , Indiana, Democrat, February 23, 1843.
               
                  16 Laws of Indiana, General, 1845-1846, pp. 3-18; ibid., 1846-1847, pp. 3-38. See also Esarey, "Internal Improvements
                        in Early Indiana" in Indiana Historical Society Publications, V,
                        130-155, concerning the 
                            Butler
                         bills and subsequent negotiations.
               
                  17 Included in the present constitution as Article X, Section 7.
               
                  18
                        
                            South Bend
                        , Indiana, 
                     St. Joseph Valley Register, March
                        1, 1849.
            
            
            In the election of delegates there was common agreement that provision should be made which would
                    prohibit another state debt for internal improvements and allied purposes. By this time it was
                    rather common to blame the legislature for the internal improvements debt and a number of delegates
                    took the doubtful position that there would have been no fiscal debacle had the legislature not
                    deceived and misled the people. Politicians who follow the will of the people are often blamed by
                    the electorate if that which is done backfires!
            A few quotes from the discussion in the constitutional convention of 1850-1851 will show the
                    atmosphere in which the debt restriction section was adopted. The atmosphere is in extreme contrast
                    to the optimistic and bouyant spirit which pervaded the utterances of political leaders in the
                    mid-thirties.
            Daniel Read, a professor at Indiana University and a Jacksonian Democrat, not only wanted to make it
                    impossible for the assembly again to make such generous use of the state's credit, he also
                    wanted to make certain that thereafter business be in private hands and not in the bungling and
                    wasteful hands of the state. Read stressed: "If there is a single proposition settled
                    beyond all manner of controversy, by every principle of sound reason, by experience all over the
                    world, and more especially by experience of our American States, it is this, that government should
                    not in its own capacity, nor by a partnership with individuals, become an agent in business
                    operations, except so far as required for the mere purposes of government." Turning to
                    Indiana, Read stated: "In the grand aggregate of State indebtedness, Indiana comes in for
                    her full proportion. No less than twelve millions fell to her lot; an amount equal to a twelfth part
                    of all the present taxable wealth of the State, and, at the time it was contracted, equal to an
                    eighth of it. After that terrific crash of State credit, which broke upon the country, in which
                    public and private credit was prostrated, and individuals and communities were alike overwhelmed,
                    had in some measure passed off, men began to reflect and soberly inquire what can be done to prevent
                    similar ruin in the future.
            "The great remedy which has been devised, is so to change the State Constitutions as to take
                    away from the Legislatures the power again to involve the State credit. Mainly with a view to
                    provisions of this kind, State after  State has changed its
                    Constitution, and other States are now engaged in the work." Read was in favor of cutting
                    "Off all power to create State debt, except in the case of public defense."
                    Moreover, "Public debt is a hydra-headed monster, which is always springing forth in some
                    new form, and under some new pretext. Cut it off in the nation,—straitway, it shoots
                    forth in the States—cut it off in the States—it comes forth in the
                    counties—cut it off in the counties—and it steals forth in the form of town or
                    city bonds."19
            
            Delegate Colfax wanted to make the constitutional restriction as definite as possible, explaining:
                    "When we look back upon the scenes of excitement through which our State has
                    passed—when we remember that so enthusiastic were the people in favor of the mammoth
                    system, that they would as heartily and as strongly, and as overwhelmingly have voted for its
                    adoption at the polls, as did their Representatives in the Legislature, it does seem as if, now in
                    our cooler moments, with the results of that infatuation in full view before us, we should so act as
                    to prevent, if possible, their repetition. Let us resolve, and place it in this instrument beyond
                    repeal, that no more State debt shall hereafter be created upon any pretext whatever… .
            "And, as we have suffered more than other States from the results of imprudent debt, which
                    still hangs over us, impairing our prosperity, and impeding our progress and advancement as a State,
                    let Indiana be the pioneer in the adoption of this new Constitutional principle, and become, in this
                    respect, a model for others to follow."20
            
            Some delegates wanted to restrict the legislature but allow a popular referendum to make the final
                    decision regarding the creation of a state debt, but Robert Dale Owen, son of the founder of 
                        New Harmony
                    , agreed with Colfax that this would not have prevented the financial disaster arising
                    from the internal improvements system. Delegate Owen stated his views: "Few men have more
                    confidence in the people than I; but it is not my opinion that the people never decide wrong.
                    Unquestionably they do sometimes. In 1796 the people rejected Thomas Jefferson as President, and
                    elected John 
                  
                     19
                            Report of the Debates and Proceedings of the Convention for the Revision of the
                                Constitution of the State of Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1850), I, 645, 647.
                  
                     20
                            Ibid., I, 653.
               
                     Adams; while in 1800 they rejected Adams and elected Jefferson.
                    They could not very well have been right in both cases.
            "In the sober second thought, in the well considered judgment of the people, I have complete
                    confidence; but they are often impulsive, and sometimes mistaken, as may happen to each one of us.
                    In a time of excitement they may do, in haste, that of which they will repent at leisure. This would
                    be assuredly the case, if the people were ever again to involve the State in an enormous public
                    debt, for the prosecution of a system of internal improvements." According to the debates a
                    voice interrupted Owen asking him to name things which the people have no right to do. Owen
                    answered: "One generation of men have no right to impose burdens upon the succeeding. One
                    generation of men have no moral right to contract a public debt so vast that the next generation,
                    and perhaps that which follows it, shall be loaded down with taxes, to discharge the interest and
                    repay the capital. They may, indeed, do this thing. They may obtain the money and spend it. Many
                    States and nations have done so. But it is not morally right on that account. Wherever it has been
                    done, it has been done wrongfully."21
            
            Many quotations could be mustered from the two thick volumes of debates which record the
                    deliberations of the delegates to the constitutional convention of 1850-1851. Various shades of
                    opinions were presented but there was a substantial majority who supported severe restrictions
                    against state indebtedness. John Pettit, a delegate who believed it would be mockery for the
                    legislature to "draft laws and submit them for adoption by the people at the annual
                    election," reviewed Indiana's plight and urged constitutional restrictions against
                    state debt as the remedy: "I am utterly opposed to the creating of a public debt which was
                    contracted under an excitement unparalelled in the history of the country. … By producing
                    a state of feverish excitement, a measure can be carried at the polls, for borrowing any amount of
                    money. I am for restriction. A burnt child dreads the fire—and this State has been most
                    dreadfully burned in this regard. What is the position of Indiana to-day… . She has no
                    name except for an almost abandoned public faith and ruined public credit. She has walked to the
                    brink of repudiation and lasting disgrace.
            
               
                  21
                        Ibid., I, 674.
            
            
            "Instead, then, of allowing any opportunity for a future Legislature to contract another
                    public debt, insert a positive Constitutional prohibition against it in every possible form and
                    shape; redeem the honor of the State, free her from the disgrace abroad and the embarrassment at
                    home, of a public debt of twelve millions. This is what the people demand."22
            
            In 1851 the new constitution was submitted to the people at a popular referendum and overwhelmingly
                        approved.23 The restrictions against state debt were generally considered as
                    desirable and wise. In an address to the people, authorized by the convention and distributed among
                    the voters during the ratification contest, the restrictions against public debt were reviewed and
                    the comment made: "Had this provision, brief and simple as it is, been inserted in the
                    Constitution of 1816, it would have saved the State from a loss of six millions of dollars. Upon
                    that sum we are now paying, without any return, some three hundred thousand dollars of interest
                    annually; that is, about eight hundred dollars a day; more than enough to maintain in perpetual
                    session … such a Convention as that which has been engaged, for the last four months, in
                    framing a constitution, which shuts out for the future, all possibility of similar
                        folly."24
            
            No doubt we will generally agree that in the long run the political ability and maturity of a people,
                    or lack of the same, are more basic in the struggle for successful government than mere
                    constitutional restrictions. In any event it is abundantly clear that it was the catastrophic fiscal
                    consequences arising from the System of 1836 which directly caused the rigid restrictions against
                    state debt in our present constitution.
            
               
                  22
                        Ibid., I, 677.
               
                  23 Kettleborough, Constitution Making in Indiana, I, has
                        much information regarding the general background and calling of the 1850-1851 constitutional
                        convention. It also has much information about the work of the convention and the subsequent
                        ratification of the new constitution. Donald F. Carmony, Indiana Constitutional Convention of
                        1850 (M.A. thesis, department of history, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        , Indiana, 1931), represents a detailed study of the convention which framed the
                        1851 constitution. This study contains much useful information but is poorly organized and
                        assembled.
               
                  24 Kettleborough, Constitution Making in Indiana, I,
                        410.
            
         
         
         
            The Documentary Basis for LaSalle's Supposed Discovery of the Ohio
                    River
            
            
               Frances Krauskopf∗
            During the many years in which historians have attempted to identify the discoverer of the
                        Ohio River, the available evidence has led such scholars as Pierre Margry,
                    Henri Harrisse, Francis Parkman, Reuben Thwaites, and Jacob Dunn to believe that Robert Cavelier de
                    la Salle was the first white man to see the stream. Even though more recently Charles Hanna, Marc de
                    Villiers du Terrage, Clarence Alvord, and Jean Delanglez tend to think that LaSalle did not find or
                    explore the 
                        Ohio
                    , nevertheless his claim of priority still has a few supporters, among them George Wrong
                    and Beverley Bond.1 As one might deduce from the fact that a controversy exists,
                    the evidence which relates to the supposed discovery is not at all clear. It is the purpose of this
                    paper to discuss briefly the pertinent documents in order to explain the bases for the differences
                    of opinion.
            LaSalle, who reached the New World sometime in 16672 after he had left the Jesuit
                    order in 
                        France
                    , settled near Montreal at LaChine.3 Soon thereafter he heard about
                    the existence 
                  
                     ∗ Frances Krauskopf is a graduate assistant in history at
                            Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana. This paper was read at the history session at the annual meeting of
                            the Indiana Academy of Social Sciences at 
                                Muncie
                            , Indiana, on November 4, 1950.
                  
                     1 For the opinions of these historians about LaSalle's
                            possible explorations, see the following: Pierre Margry (ed.), Découvertes et établissements des FranÇais dans
                                l'ouest et dans le sud de I'Amérique septentrionale
                                (1614-1698), (6 vols., 
                                Paris
                            , 1879-1888), especially vols. I, II, and III; [Henri Harrisse], Notes pour servir à l'histoire, à la bibliographie et
                                à la cartographie de la Nouvelle-
                                    France
                                 et des pays adjacents, 1545-1700 (
                                Paris
                            , 1872), 122; Francis Parkman, La Salle and the Discovery of the
                                Great West (
                                Boston
                            , 1927), 33; Reuben G. Thwaites (ed.), Jesuit Relations and Allied
                                Documents (73 vols., 
                                Cleveland
                            , 1896-1901), LVII (1899), 315; Jacob Dunn, Indiana, a Redemption
                                from Slavery (
                                Boston
                             and 
                                New York
                            , 1890), 10; Charles Hanna, The Wilderness Trail (2 vols., 
                                New York
                             and 
                                London
                            , 1911), II, 87; Marc de Villiers du Terrage, La
                                découverte du 
                                    Missouri
                                 et l'histoire de fort d'Orléans,
                            1673-1728 (
                                Paris
                            , 1925), 3-14; Clarence Alvord, The Illinois Country,
                            1673-1818 (
                                Springfield
                            , 1920), 78; Jean Delanglez, "La Salle, 1669-1673," in Mid-America (
                                Chicago
                            , 1918-), XIX (1937), 197-216, 237-253; George Wrong, The Rise and
                                Fall of 
                                    New France
                                
                      (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1928), I, 428; Beverley Bond, Jr., The Foundations of 
                                    Ohio
                                
                      (
                        Columbus, Ohio
                     , 1941), 65.
                  
                     2 Camille de Rochemonteix, Les Jésuites et la Nouvelle-
                                    France
                                 en XVIIe siècle, d'après beaucoup de
                                documents inédits (3 vols., 
                                Paris
                            , 1895-1896), III, 48.
                  
                     3 The next two paragraphs are based on the "Récit
                            de ce qui s'est passé de plus remarquable dans le voyage de MM Dollier
                            et Gallinée
               
                     of the 
                        Ohio
                     from some Iroquois and obtained permission from the French governor, Courcelles, to go
                    west in search of the river. His fund of information in 1669 is summed up in these words:
                    "They [the Indians] told him that this river rose three days' journey from
                    Sonnontouan [a Seneca village] and that after a month's travel one found the
                    Honniasontkeronons and the Chiouanons, and that after passing the latter and a great cataract or
                    waterfall which is in this river, one found the Outagame and the country of the Iskousogos, and
                    finally a country so abundant in roedeer and wild cattle that they were as thick as the woods, and
                    so great a quantity of tribes that there could be no more."4
                    Furthermore, the reports of the Indians led LaSalle to believe that if this river were followed for
                    seven or eight months it would lead an explorer to the sea.5
            
            At the head of a party of fourteen organized at his own expense, LaSalle joined forces with two
                    priests, Dollier and Galinée, who were planning a missionary expedition up the St.
                    Lawrence. The two groups traveled together until they reached the western end of 
                        Lake Ontario
                    , when the religious members decided to go to the 
                        Ottawa
                     country in the upper Great Lakes region. Because LaSalle of course had no desire to
                    accompany them in that direction, the party separated into its component elements on October 1,
                    1669. What LaSalle's activities were after he left Dollier and Galinée is matter
                    for conjecture,. since he disappears from the recital of the expedition at this point, with an
                    indication that he was planning to return to Montreal. But other documents exist which, in attempts
                    to explain his subsequent whereabouts from 1669 to 1673, tell of his supposed discovery of the 
                        Ohio
                     during those years.
            One of the documents is the "Mémoire on the plan of LaSalle for the Discovery of
                    the Western Part of North America between 
                  New France, Florida
               , and Mexico."6 Neither its author nor date of composition has been determined; written probably about 1678,
                    it is sometimes attributed to LaSalle 
                  (1669-1670)," in Margry, Découvertes …,
                            I, 112-166, especially pp. 112-148. The journal has been translated by James H. Coyne in the 
                                Ontario
                             Historical Society Papers and Records (
                                Toronto
                            , 1899-), IV (1903), iii-xl, 1-89.
                  
                     4 Margry, Découvertes, I, 116.
                  
                     5
                            Ibid., 114.
                  
                     6
                            Ibid., 329-336.
               
                     himself, sometimes to the Abbé Bernou, one-time
                    editor of the Gazette de 
                            France
                        
                who may have wanted to be LaSalle's agent. The pertinent passage from
                    the "Mémoire" may be translated as follows: "The sieur de la
                    Salle, who had always been much inclined to make discoveries and to establish colonies which could
                    be advantageous to religion and useful to 
                        France
                    , went to 
                        Canada
                     in 1666, and began the same year the village of LaChine, situated on the island of
                    Montreal, beyond all the French habitations. In the year 1667 and the following, he made several
                    journeys with much expense, in which he was the first to discover much country to the south of the
                    great lakes, among others the great river 
                        Ohio
                    . He followed it to a place where it falls from very high into vast marshes, at the
                    latitude of 37 degrees, after having been enlarged by another very great river which comes from the
                    north; and all these waters empty, according to all appearances, in the Gulf of Mexico, and make him
                    hope to find a new communication with the sea, from which 
                        New France
                     could some day draw very great advantages, as well as from the great lakes which occupy
                    a part of North America."7
            
            The second source, entitled "An Account of a Friend of the Abbé de
                        Galinée,"8 is supposedly based on a number of
                    conversations the author had with LaSalle himself in 
                        Paris
                     in June, 1678. The writer has been identified as Abbé Renaudot, son of the
                    founder of the Gazette de 
                            France
                        
                and later its editor. Estimates on the date of composition vary from 1678 to
                    1683. In part, the author of the account states: "Meanwhile M. de la Salle continued his
                    way on a river which flows from the east to the west and passes to Onontague, then to six or seven
                    leagues below Lake Erie, and having come to the 280th or 83rd degree of longtitude, and to the 41st
                    degree of latitude, found a cataract which falls to the west in a low, marshy country all covered
                    with old stumps, some of which are still standing. He was then forced to land, and following a ridge
                    which could lead him far he found some savages who told him that, very far from there, the same
                    river which lost itself in this low, vast land reunited in a single bed. He accordingly continued
                    his way, but since the hardship was great, 23 or 24 men whom he had led up to that time all left him
                    one night, regained the river and 
                  
                     7
                            Ibid., 329-330.
                  
                     8
                            Ibid., 345-401.
               
                     escaped, some to New Holland, and others to 
                        New England
                    . He then found himself alone 400 leagues from home, to which he did not fail to return,
                    reascending the river and living from the hunt, from herbs and from what the savages whom he met on
                    his way gave him."9
            
            Another document which might conceivably relate to the problem is a letter written by
                    LaSalle's niece in January, 1746, a time when the French were interested in establishing
                    control over the headwaters of the 
                        Ohio
                    . The letter, however, is not at all definite: "As soon as your letter was
                    received, I sought a sure opportunity to send you the papers of M. de La Salle. There are some maps
                    which I have added to these papers which should serve to prove that, in 1675, M. de la Salle had
                    already made two journeys in these discoveries, since there was a map which I am sending you, by
                    which mention is made of the place at which M. de La Salle approached the river 
                        Mississippi
                    , another place which he names the river Colbert, in another, he takes possession of
                    this country in the name of the king and has a cross planted, another which he names Frontenac, the
                    river St. Lawrence in another place."10
            
            These three records comprise the bases for positive arguments. Proceeding to arguments from the
                    negative, a number of documents can be mentioned. In the first place, the only pertinent references
                    to be found in the letters of the current intendant, Talon, merely indicate that LaSalle was
                    exploring somewhere in the south, but not necessarily on this particular expedition, since they are
                    dated in the 1670's.11 Secondly, when LaSalle wanted to go to 
                        France
                     in 1674, Frontenac wrote a letter of recommendation which praised LaSalle highly but
                    which mentioned no discoveries.12 Thirdly, LaSalle's patent of
                    nobility, issued in March of the next year, briefly recorded his exploits as "scorning the
                    greatest perils in order to extend our name and our empire to the end of this New
                        World."13 Another memoir on the undertaking of 1679 to 1681 in the
                    Illinois Country merely alludes to the joint expedition: "He was the first to form the plan
                    of these 
                  
                     9
                            Ibid., 377-378.
                  
                     10
                            Ibid., 379.
                  
                     11
                            Ibid., 82, 87-88, 92.
                  
                     12
                            Ibid., 277.
                  
                     13
                            Ibid., 286-287.
               
                     discoveries, which he communicated, more than fifteen years
                    ago, to M. de Courcelles, governor, and to M. Talon, intendant of 
                        Canada
                    , who approved it. He afterwards made several journeys in that direction, and one among
                    others in 1669 with MM Dollier and Galinée, priests of the Seminary of
                        Saint-Sulpice."14 Furthermore, the "Relation of the
                    discoveries and of the Journeys of the Sieur de la Salle, lord and governor of Fort
                    Frontenac," written by an unknown author at an unknown date, records LaSalle's
                    desire to explore the southwest and to find the route to 
                        China
                    , but it mentions no discovery of the 
                        Ohio
                    .15 And finally, when LaSalle's relatives drew up the list
                    of his expenses for presentation to the king, they said nothing of a journey to the 
                        Ohio
                     but contented themselves by beginning with the project in the Illinois Country in the
                    late 1670's.16
            
            LaSalle himself never claimed the discovery of the 
                        Ohio
                    , at least in those of his papers which still exist; however, it must be remembered that
                    very probably most of his records were destroyed in the various disasters which overtook him. One
                    possible reference occurs in a letter of September 29, 1680, in which he wrote: "Moreover,
                    even if, contrary to what we have been told and all that I can conjecture about this river [the 
                        Mississippi
                    ], it should not be navigable to the sea, this second barque which I have had begun in
                    the 
                        Illinois
                     country would always be very necessary to bring back the commodities of the 
                        Illinois
                     country to Fort Frontenac by a river which I have found, this river
                    being a great deal more convenient than the route by which Jolliet passed, the difficulties of which
                    he concealed for reasons which I cannot guess.
            "It is the only diagonal to conduct this trade with 
                        Canada
                    , as you seem to wish, the expense and the risks being too great by the lakes. Moreover
                    one could take out the hides of cattle that way, and I still persist in the sentiment that it is
                    necessary to have them by the Gulf of Mexico, ready nevertheless to do it by this river, which I
                    call the Baudrane. The Iroquis call it 
                        Ohio
                    , and the 
                        Ottawa
                     Olighincipou… .
            "This river Baudrane rises behind Oneiout [Oneida] and after a westward course of about four
                    hundred fifty leagues 
                  
                     14
                            Ibid., II, 285.
                  
                     15
                            Ibid., I, 435-436.
                  
                     16
                            Ibid., 423.
               
                     almost always as large and larger than the Seine is before
                    Rouen and much deeper, discharges in the river Colbert twenty to twenty-five leagues south-southwest
                    of the mouth by which the river of the 
                        Illinois
                     falls into this same stream. A barque could ascend this river until very far toward
                    Tsonnontouan, and in this place one is distant only twenty to twenty-five leagues from the southern
                    coast of 
                        Lake Ontario
                     or Frontenac, from whence one can go in a barque to Fort Frontenac in fifteen hours of
                    good wind, so that, by this way, only one establishment would have to be constructed at the mouth of
                    the river of the Tsonnontouans on the shore of 
                        Lake Ontario
                     and another on the river which I call Baudrane where one could feed
                    horses and use them for transport."17
            
            Another document, written a few days later on November 9, also contained the
                    opinion—probably LaSalle's—that the 
                        Ohio
                     was navigable to barques.18
            
            In a highly confusing fragment describing the rivers and people of the new lands, apparently produced
                    between 1682 (the year of the 
                        Mississippi
                     journey) and 1684, LaSalle talked about the Chucagoa, the same stream which the French
                    called the 
                        St. Louis
                    , by which he apparently meant the present-day 
                        Ohio
                    . Here he declared that the 
                        Ohio
                     was one of the branches of the Chucagoa,19 and then he added the
                    significant comment: "I have not yet been able to descend it"; the reference seems to be to
                    the Chucagoa. Later in the account he remarked that he did not know whether or not the Chucagoa fell
                    into the 
                        Mississippi
                     because of a split in the channel of the latter stream.20 The
                    fragment is apparently an attempt by LaSalle to prove that another large stream flowed to the
                    southward east of the 
                        Mississippi
                    —the Chucagoa of De Soto.
            Thus a brief survey of the pertinent documents shows at once that a great many problems arise in an
                    attempt to reconstruct the actual occurrences. In the first place, the
                    "Ménoire" which tells about LaSalle's following the 
                        Ohio
                     to a place where it falls "from very high" or from a great height
                    into vast marshes might seem to refer to the falls of the 
                  
                     17
                            Ibid., II, 79-81.
                  
                     18
                            Ibid., 98.
                  
                     19 This analysis seems to be confirmed by Franquelin's map of
                            1684 as sketched in Reuben G. Thwaites, Jesuit Relations and Allied Documents,
                                LXIII, frontispiece.
                  
                     20 Margry, Découvertes, II,
                        196-197.
               
                    
                    
                        Ohio
                     at 
                        Louisville
                    . But the falls drop only twenty-seven feet in a course of two and one-half miles,21 hardly a great height. The reference to marshes might be interpreted to imply
                    that LaSalle came down the river during flood time—but in that case the rapids would not
                    have been noticeable, as one can judge from some of the accounts of later travelers on the 
                        Ohio
                    .22 Furthermore, 
                        Louisville
                     is located at 38° 15' N, rather than at 37°; and
                    finally, the dates in the passage are not accurate.
            In considering the second passage, the account of the friend of the Abbé de
                    Galinée, new questions arise. This recital states that LaSalle explored from the 330th
                    degree of longitude to the 268th, and from the 55th degree of latitude to the 36th. Latitude 36
                    passes approximately through 
                        Nashville
                     and 
                  Knoxville, Tennessee
               ; 55° crosses central Alberta and
                    Saskatchewan, cutting off James Bay from Hudson Bay. But the question of longitude is more confusing
                    than that of latitude, for it is not known whether the measurements were made from Ferro, the
                    westernmost island of the Canaries, or from another point. Delanglez thought that Ferro was not the
                    prime meridian, since—according to him—it was not used as such until the
                    eighteenth century.23 Yet Erwin Raisz in his General
                    Cartography specifically records that in the seventeenth century the king of 
                        France
                     compelled all his cartographers to use Ferro;24 at any rate; on
                    Hennepin's map of 1683,25 the 360th meridian clearly runs through the
                    western Canaries. On the basis of Ferro, the territory measured by the longitude recorded above
                    corresponds to the region from a point somewhere in the ocean east of Newfoundland westward to
                    110°, which passes through 
                  Montana,
                            Wyoming, Utah
                and 
                        Arizona
                    . On Hennepin's map of 1683, 330° skirts the eastern coast of
                    Newfoundland, while 268° passes half way between the upper 
                        Mississippi
                     and 
                        California
                    . Whatever 
                  
                     21 Delanglez, "LaSalle, 1669-1673," in Mid-America, XIX, 213. This article was reprinted in his Some La
                                Salle Journeys (
                                Chicago
                            , 1938), 3-39.
                  
                     22 Reuben G. Thwaites, Early Western Travels (32
                            vols., 
                                Cleveland
                            , 1904-1907), X (1904), 242-243, and 43. The references occur in the journals of
                            John Woods and Thomas Hulme.
                  
                     23 Delanglez, "La Salle, 1669-1673," in Mid-America, XIX, 241-242.
                  
                     24 Erwin J. Raisz, General Cartography (
                                New York
                             and 
                                London
                            , 1938), 79.
                  
                     25 Hennepin's map is reproduced in Charles Karpinski, Historical Atlas of the Great Lakes and 
                                    Michigan
                                
                      (Lansing, 1931), 19.
               
                     system of longitudinal measurement is used, the area involved
                    is indeed a huge expanse for one person to explore! It is interesting to note too that the document
                    located the falls at 280° or 283° of longitude, and the 41st degree of
                    latitude, co-ordinates which on Hennepin's map are approximately the site of
                    LaSalle's colony in north-central 
                        Illinois
                    ; measured from Ferro these co-ordinates would locate LaSalle in 
                        Nebraska
                    . Another discrepancy occurs in the mention of the twenty-three or twenty-four men who
                    deserted, for LaSalle himself had hired only about fourteen, some of whom seem to have returned to
                    the settlements by November, 1669.26
            
            As far as the letter of LaSalle's niece is concerned, besides the reference to two journeys
                    nothing of importance can be determined. The maps to which she referred have disappeared and
                    apparently were not produced by the French to reinforce their claims to the upper 
                        Ohio
                    , a use which would almost certainly have been made of them had they proved French
                        priority.27
            
            The portions of LaSalle's writings which might indicate that he had discovered the 
                        Ohio
                     are also not helpful. In the first place, when in his letter of September 29, 1680, he
                    referred to a stream which he had found—the 
                        Ohio
                    —he did not mention a falls or rapids, a fact which is totally at variance
                    with the documents already discussed, wherein appear references to a high falls. Furthermore, it is
                    not necessary to put a great deal of faith in the phrase, "which I have found,"
                    for in another letter LaSalle made a similar claim; he then proceeded to describe a river which does
                    not exist. He wrote: "I have found a route more convenient that that of the
                    lakes… .
            "The river which you have seen marked on my map of the south shore of Lake Erie toward the
                    end, called by the Iroquois Tiotontaraeton, is indeed the passage to go to the river 
                        Ohio
                     or Olighinsipou, which means in Iroquois and in 
                        Ottawa
                     the beautiful river.' The distance from the one to the other being
                    considerable, communication is more difficult, but about a day's journey from its mouth in
                    Lake Erie, where it washes everywhere beautiful country within a musket-shot 
                  
                     26 Etienne Faillon, Histoire de la colonie
                                française en 
                                    Canada
                                
                      (3 vols., Villemarie, 1865-1866), III, 297.
                  
                     27 E. B. O'Callaghan (ed.), Documents Relative
                                to the Colonial History of the State of 
                                    New York
                                
                      (15 vols., 
                                Albany
                            , 1853-1887), X (1858), 243 and 293.
               
                     from its banks, there is a little lake from which issues a
                    large brook three or four toises wide, more than a toise deep at its exit from the lake, which soon
                    is changed into a river by juncture with a number of similar streams, which, after a course of more
                    than a hundred leagues without rapids receives another little river which comes from nearby, that of
                    the Miami, and five or six others as large, and then, flowing with more velocity along a mountain
                    slope, it empties into that of the 
                        Illinois
                     two leagues below the village and from there in the Colbert. Its name is Ouabanchi or
                        Aramoni."28 Apparently this discovery too was based on hearsay,
                    rather than on actual exploration. The survival of such an example of downright falsification on the
                    part of LaSalle certainly should be kept in mind in trying to evaluate his exploits elsewhere!
            Secondly, in the fragment written two or more years later, while he was describing the 
                        Ohio
                     as a branch of the Chucagoa or the present 
                        Ohio
                    , he stated definitely: "I have not yet been able to descend it," the
                    Chucagoa, on which the falls would have been encountered. As noted above, in this document LaSalle
                    confessed ignorance about the lower course of the Chucagoa. Yet in so doing he certainly contradicts
                    the definite wording of the official report of March 13 and 14, 1682, which recorded his taking
                    possession of the 
                        Mississippi
                    : "I, by virtue of the commission of His Majesty which I bear and which I hold
                    now in my hand, ready to show to whomever it might concern, have taken and take possession in the
                    name of His Majesty, of his heirs and successors of his crown, of the country of 
                        Louisiana
                     and of all the lands … from the mouth of the river Saint-Louis, called 
                        Ohio
                    , Olighinsipou and Chukagoa, and along it and of all and each of the rivers which empty
                    therein from the east of the mouth of the River of Palms from the west, along the river Colbert,
                    called 
                        Mississippi
                    , and of all of the rivers which empty into it from the east side."29 Morover, three members of his exploring party of 1682—Nicholas de
                    la Salle, Henri Tonti, and Father Zénobre Membré—specifically wrote
                    that the stream did empty into the 
                        Mississippi
                    ; if the records have not been changed at a later date, they indicate that the travelers
                    were aware of the fact when they went down the river, for they mentioned 
                  
                     28 Margry, Découvertes, II, 243-244.
                  
                     29
                            Ibid., 181-185, especially 184.
               
                     passing the mouth of the 
                        St. Louis
                    , or 
                        Wabash
                    , or Chicagoua, or the 
                        Ohio
                    ; they added that the river came from the country of the Iroquois, and one told of
                    stopping at its mouth.30 It is significant to note in passing that none of these
                    men made any reference at all to a previous connection of LaSalle with the stream; and neither do
                    they mention a split in the 
                        Mississippi
                    's channel, as LaSalle's fragment did.
            Oftentimes the deficiencies of evidence derived from documents can be supplemented by cartographical
                    data. Unfortunately, however, existing maps pertinent to the issue do not offer much help. According
                    to Father Delanglez, Jolliet's maps which have not been changed at a later date do not
                    indicate that LaSalle had explored the 
                        Ohio
                    . He thought that the maps which have been changed to indicate such a discovery,
                    apparently in the early 1680's, are open to question. Furthermore, Delanglez pointed out
                    that later reproductions of Jolliet's maps, made in the late 1680's, again omit
                    reference to LaSalle on the 
                        Ohio
                    .31 On the other hand, Beverley Bond decided that the alterations on
                    the maps support the authenticity of the supposed explorations.32
            
            One possible solution, based on Franquelin's Map of 1684, does present itself. This map
                    shows a stream, corresponding roughly to the 
                        Ohio
                    , labeled 
                        St. Louis
                     or Chuc-Agoa; into it empties another, called the 
                        Ohio
                     or Olighin, which rises in central 
                        New York
                     and flows southwest until it joins the 
                        Ohio
                     approximately south of the west end of Lake Erie; however, this river is not a
                    distortion of the 
                        Wabash
                    , for the sketch shows another tributary approximating the course of the Indiana stream.
                    On the basis of this map, which was drawn nearly fifteen years after the supposed discovery, it is
                    possible to speculate that LaSalle may have crossed Lake Erie in 1669 and reached the Allegheny or
                    some other river in northwestern 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , which he called the 
                        Ohio
                    . Possibly his desire for glory led him to repeat a story of his supposed discovery,
                    using the details he had already learned from the Indians; or possibly later, in an attempt to
                    detract from the fame of Jolliet, some of LaSalle's friends proceeded to illuminate his
                    name by recording the rumors related 
                  
                     30
                            Ibid., I, 551 and 596, and John D. Shea, Discovery and
                                Exploration of the Mississippi Valley
                      (Redfield, 
                                New York
                            , 1853), 167.
                  
                     31 Delanglez, "La Salle, 1669-1673," in Mid-America, XIX, 243-253.
                  
                     32 Bond, The Foundations of 
                                    Ohio
                                
                     , 66-67.
               
                     by LaSalle as reports of discovery.33 After
                    the desertion of part of his men, LaSalle may have turned to the fur trade, for Nicholas Perrot
                    reported seeing him together with a hunting party of five or six Frenchmen and ten or twelve
                    Iroquois on the Ottawa River in the summer of 1670.34 This
                    hypothesis is re-enforced by documents, dated 1671 and 1672, which relate to LaSalle's
                    purchase of merchandise,35 a fact which seems to indicate that he was collecting
                    furs somewhere. But here again one must be cautious in reaching a conclusion. In the first place,
                    the Franquelin Map of 1684 labels a roughly sketched Maumee as the Agoussaké, while in
                    the fragment describing rivers and peoples LaSalle clearly implied that the Agoussaké
                    joined his so-called 
                        Ohio
                     before that stream fell into the Saint-Louis, or present-day 
                        Ohio
                    . And this fragment was apparently written at about the same time the map was drawn.
                    Secondly, Perrot's testimony appears in a reminiscence written many years later, and Perrot
                    did at times confuse dates.36
            
            In surveying the documentary evidence so far uncovered, if one considers the difficulties raised, it
                    is hard to reach any other conclusion but that LaSalle had no first-hand knowledge of the 
                        Ohio
                    . The descriptions of the region are highly inaccurate, the evidence of the various
                    documents certainly does not tally at all, and his own references betray ignorance, evident
                    misinformation, and downright untruths. Therefore it seems reasonable that the historian might well
                    question the authenticity of the supposed discovery until better, more exact, and more conclusive
                    evidence is produced.
            
               
                  33 See discussions by Delanglez, "La Salle, 1669-1673,"
                        in Mid-America, XIX, passim, and de Villiers, La Découverte du 
                                Missouri
                            
                  , 3-18.
               
                  34 Perrot's Mémoire is translated in
                        Emma H. Blair, Indian Tribes of the 
                                Upper Mississippi
                             and the Great Lakes Region (2 vols., 
                            Cleveland
                        , 1911-1912), I, 23-272. The statement referred to appears on page 211.
               
                  35 Faillon, Histoire de la colonie française en 
                                Canada
                            
                  , III, 312.
               
                  36 Frances Gaither, The Fatal River: The Life and Death of La
                            Salle (
                            New York
                        , 1931), 48-49.
            
         
         
         
            The Editor's Page
            IS THE MISSISSIPPI VALLEY HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION IN DANGER?
            Three proposals to change the character of the association have been made. By opposing a meeting in a
                    Southern city because of racial discrimination, certain members would make the society a reform
                    organization. Once race matters are arranged to their satisfaction, labor questions, or something
                    else might determine where the meetings would be held.
            A second proposal is to change the name of the society and a third calls for a change in the name of
                    the Review. Both have an illustrious history under their present names which are
                    descriptive of their origin and of the largest number of the members. The society has been in a
                    flourishing condition and is likely to remain so if it continues true to itself: an historical
                    society devoted to the history of the great Mississippi Valley.
            It is unfair to the founders and to the membership past and present of the Mississippi
                        Valley Historical Association to try to use its organization, its members, its
                    goodwill, and its finances to form a national society. To pursue this goal will likely result in
                    division, strife, possibly a law suit, and certainly injury to the association. There ought to be an
                    easier way to found a national society.
            If such a program were adopted what would be the relations with the American Historical Association?
                    Where would the meetings be held? In 
                  Boston, New York, Washington
               , and occasionally in 
                        Chicago
                    ? What would its attitude be towards the great interior valley of the 
                        United States
                    ? Would there not be need then for a new Mississippi Valley
                    Historical Association which would have to be founded without the benefit of the organization and
                    funds which have been established for this purpose?
            Historians all over the world are welcome to join, but it is not necessary to remodel the society in
                    order to attract more members. Bigness is not necessarily a virtue.
            Efforts to destroy the present society should be rejected. It should not become a reform
                    organization. Keep it a society that can meet in 
                  Oklahoma
                        City, Lincoln, Minneapolis, Nashville, Columbus, Rock Island,
                            New Orleans, Indianapolis, Madison, Detroit
               , and other midwest cities. Keep the present
                    association by voting to retain the present names. In the future let us act like a historical
                    society and not a reform organization.
         
         
         
            Mail Service in Indiana Territory
            Howard H. Peckham∗
            If you had lived in 
                        Vincennes
                     in 1800 and wished to send a letter west to 
                        Kaskaskia
                    , you faced the choice of finding a trader or traveler going in that direction who might
                    oblige you for a small fee, or of waiting for the passage of the official post rider who carried the
                    mail from 
                        Louisville
                     to 
                        Kaskaskia
                     once every four weeks. His salary was six hundred dollars a year for this service, and
                    since the road beyond 
                        Vincennes
                     was not yet approved by Congress as a postal route, the postage charged had to cover
                    that part of the carrier's salary. There could be no deficit because the government would
                    not make it up.1
            
            If your letter bore an eastern address, you fared somewhat better. Congress had just approved the
                    Buffalo Trace from 
                        Vincennes
                     to 
                        Louisville
                     as a post road, or mail route. This meant that you need pay only the regular postage
                    rate of eight cents for the first forty miles, ten cents from forty to ninety miles, twelve and
                    one-half cents up to one hundred and fifty miles (and 
                        Vincennes
                     to 
                        Louisville
                     was one hundred ten miles), and on up to twenty-five cents for any distance over five
                    hundred miles.2 These rates, established in 1799 and paid for by the recipients
                    of letters, and the amount of mail entering and leaving Indiana Territory did not pay the cost of
                    transporting the mail, for the contractor received six hundred dollars a year for making the trip
                    from 
                        Vincennes
                     to 
                        Louisville
                     once a week. Indeed, in the year October 1, 1800, to October 1, 1801, the entire
                    postage received from Indiana Territory amounted to $85.49.3
            
            Considering this kind of frontier experience, it must be granted that the 
                        United States
                     Post Office Department kept up with westward migration rather well. A post office had
                    been established at 
                        Pittsburgh
                     in 1788, the year 
                  Marietta, Ohio
               , was founded. The Ohio
                    River would seem to make 
                  
                     ∗ Howard H. Peckham is director of the Indiana Historical
                            Bureau and secretary of the Indiana Historical Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana. This paper was read at the history session at the annual meeting of
                            the Indiana Academy of Social Sciences at 
                                Muncie
                            , Indiana, on November 4, 1950.
                  
                     1 Clarence E. Carter (ed.), The Territorial Papers of the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                Washington
                            , 1934-), III, 70.
                  
                     2
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, I, 734.
                  
                     3 Carter, The Territorial Papers of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , VII, 21n.
               
                     westward extension of mail service easier. Mail boats to
                    Wheeling and on down to Limestone, or modern Maysville, 
                        Kentucky
                    , were launched early in 1794. Yet the unreliability of the 
                        Ohio
                     and the frequency of Indian attacks on the lightly manned mail boats caused the
                    department to resort to roads. In the same year the service was extended to 
                        Louisville
                    , and another route was established westward across 
                        Virginia
                     to 
                  Knoxville, Tennessee
               .4 Then extension ceased for a
                    few years while cross routes north and south were developed and feeder lines increased.
            The motive for this expansion was not primarily to enable friends in far places to keep track of one
                    another or merchants to order goods from the East. President George Washington told Congress in 1791
                    that the "importance of the post-office and post-roads … is increased by their
                    instrumentality in diffusing a knowledge of the laws and proceedings of the Government, which while
                    it contributes to the security of the people, serves also to guard them against the effects of
                    misrepresentation and misconception."5
            
            Postmaster General Timothy Pickering echoed a similar view in 1793, saying that as for "our
                    fellow citizens in the remote parts of the Union … without the aid of the public post
                    roads they will not only be embarrassed in their correspondence but remain destitute of every
                    necessary information."6
            
            Rufus Putman, writing from Marietta in 1794, pointed out the political significance of mail service:
                    "the information by this means obtained as to the measures of the government on the one
                    hand, the State of the people on the other, the knowledge diffused among the people by Newspapers,
                    by corrispondence between frinds, and other communictions with these remote parts of the American
                    Empire may be of infinite consequence to the government. Northing can be more fatal to a republican
                    government then Ignorence among its citizens, as they will be made the easy dupes of Designing men
                    & insted of supporting the laws, the reason and policy of which they are ignorent, they will
                    flock in thousands after 
                  
                     4 Wesley E. Rich, The History of the 
                                    United States
                                 Post Office to the Year 1829 (
                        Cambridge, Massachusetts
                     , 1924), 64, 70-72.
                  
                     5 James D. Richardson (ed.), A Compilation of the
                                Messages and Papers of the Presidents, 1789-1897 (
                                Washington
                            , 1896-1899), I, 107.
                  
                     6 Pickering Papers, Library of Congress, Letterbook C, 57-58, as
                            quoted in Rich, History of the 
                                    United States
                                 Post Office, 70.
               
                     a Demagouge who Sets up [to] oppose every measure of government
                    which he is able to persuade them is not for their intrest: in such circumstances the well disposed
                    are born down and carryed away with the flood they [are] incapable of opposing for want of
                    information… ."7
            
            It was considerations like these that changed the point of view of government from the colonial aim
                    of making money on the postal routes to subsidizing a widespread mail service.
            The earliest settlers in Indiana had to get their letters either to 
                        Louisville
                     or 
                        Cincinnati
                     before connecting with a post road. In February, 1797, the inhabitants of 
                        Kaskaskia
                     petitioned for extension of the post road from 
                        Louisville
                     to 
                        Vincennes
                     and 
                        Kaskaskia
                    .8 The Assistant Postmaster General wrote to the postmaster at 
                        Louisville
                     and authorized him to find a contractor who would make such a trip to the 
                        Mississippi
                     every two weeks at the rate of six hundred and fity dollars a year.9 The terms were not attractive and there were no takers. Congress refused to make a
                    subsidized mail route of the road beyond 
                        Louisville
                    . Finally in November, 1799, the Postmaster General, Joseph Habersham, found a
                    contractor who would make the two hundred seventy mile trip to 
                        Kaskaskia
                     once every four weeks for six hundred dollars a year, the sum to be covered by the
                    postage charged. General W. Johnston was appointed deputy postmaster at 
                        Vincennes
                    , the adjective "deputy" apparently designating it as a part-time
                        job.10 Finally in April, 1800, Congress approved of a postal route from 
                        Louisville
                     to 
                        Vincennes
                    , which had the effect of lowering postage rates. In March, 1801, Congress extended the
                    post road to 
                        Kaskaskia
                     and Cahokia.11
            
            The mail schedule thereafter called for the eastbound mail to leave 
                        Vincennes
                     every Friday afternoon at 2:00 P.M. and arrive at 
                        Louisville
                     the next Monday at 5:00 P.M. The rider then left 
                        Louisville
                     Tuesday morning at 8:00 and arrived in 
                        Vincennes
                     Friday morning. Westbound mail left 
                        Vincennes
                     every other Wednesday morning and arrived at 
                        Cahokia
                     the next Tuesday night, the trip requiring a full 
                  
                     7
                            Memoirs of Rufus Putnam (
                                Boston
                            , 1903), 394.
                  
                     8 Carter, The Territorial Papers of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , II, 633.
                  
                     9
                            Ibid., 634.
                  
                     10
                            Ibid., III, 70, 78-80.
                  
                     11
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, II, 44, 126.
               
                     week. After a rest of a week the carrier made the return
                    journey, starting on Wednesday and arriving at 
                        Vincennes
                     the next Tuesday.12
            
            By this route the settlers at Clarksville were accommodated, while those at the mouth of the
                    Whitewater were close to 
                        Cincinnati
                    . Only the post of 
                        Fort Wayne
                     was left isolated.
            General W. Johnston remained postmaster for two years and then resigned, to be replaced in rapid
                    succession by Henry Hurst, William B. Coupland, and William Prince. By July 1, 1803, Johnston was
                    back in office and remained until 1812. He was succeeded by Prince again for a year, and then J. D.
                    Hay became the last postmaster in the territorial period.13
            
            The attractions of the job were not great. It was, as it still is, political recognition from the
                    national capital, although the partisan possibilities of the jobs had not been fully developed. The
                    salary was meager and on a commission basis, which meant that the postmaster had to have other
                    regular employment.
            According to the law of 1792, he was paid forty per cent of the gross receipts of his post office
                    until the commission amounted to fifty dollars. Then he received thirty per cent of the receipts up
                    to the sum of one hundred dollars, and beyond that only twenty per cent of the receipts. He was also
                    paid fifty per cent of the postage paid on newspapers. No postmaster could receive more than
                    eighteen hundred dollars, because the Postmaster General in 
                        Washington
                     was paid only two thousand dollars.14 These commissions were
                    reduced slightly in 1797, and no further change was made until 1810, when the ceiling on pay was
                    raised to two thousand dollars. The local postmasters also were allowed the franking privilege, or
                    free postage.
            In the first year of his holding the appointment, Postmaster Johnston received the munificent sum of
                    $32.63. The salary rose to $136.42 the second year.15
                    Moreover, he was not permitted to charge the government any rent for quarters. If a room or
                    furniture was necessary, he was to provide it himself. When he complained, the Postmaster General
                    reminded 
                  
                     12 Carter, The Territorial Papers of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , VII, 80.
                  
                     13
                            Ibid., VII, 18.
                  
                     14
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, I, 238.
                  
                     15
                            American State Papers, Post Office (
                                Washington
                            , 1834), 31-33.
               
                     him that when the post road was established, some persons had
                    offered to discharge the duties of postmaster without any remuneration for the sake of getting the
                    advantages of the service.
            In 1803 the Postmaster General was ready to open a post office at 
                        Jeffersonville
                     and asked Governor William Henry Harrison to name someone as postmaster. Harrison
                    obliged and the second post office in modern Indiana was created.16 Settlers up
                    the Whitewater Valley utilized a north and south mail route in 
                        Ohio
                     that passed from 
                        Cincinnati
                     to 
                        Detroit
                    . When this route was moved eastward to run through 
                        Warren
                     and 
                        Cleveland
                    , they were cut off. Soldiers moving between 
                        Fort Dearborn
                     and 
                        Fort Wayne
                     carried letters to and from 
                        Chicago
                    .17
            
            The obligation of maintaining mail schedules required Congress to take some responsibility for
                    improving roads. It appropriated six thousand dollars in 1806 for opening and improving roads in
                    Indiana Territory. Three of them were ordered to be marked out: one from 
                        St. Louis
                     to 
                  Dayton, Ohio
               , via 
                        Vincennes
                    ; one from 
                        Kaskaskia
                     to 
                        Vincennes
                    ; and the other from 
                        Vincennes
                     to 
                        Cincinnati
                    .18
            
            In 1809 a post office was established at Corydon. In 1812, Jonathan Jennings, Indiana
                    Territory's delegate to Congress, was seeking to establish a weekly mail from 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     to 
                  Madison, Charlestown
               , and 
                        Jeffersonville
                    . He was successful, and the route was attached to 
                        Cincinnati
                     for eastern mail and to 
                  Washington,
                            Kentucky
               , for southern mail. The next
                    year a route was pushed northward up the Whitewater, with post offices established at
                    "Franklin Court House" (
                        Brookville
                    ), "
                        Wayne
                     Court House" (
                        Salisbury
                    ), and "Allen's Ferry" (Harrison).19
            
            Petitions for mail routes naturally flowed from new areas as population increased. Congress saw the
                    wisdom of establishing a general and consistent policy on opening new post offices. In 1814 a law
                    was enacted that said a post road, 
                  
                     16 Carter, The Territorial Papers of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , VII, 167.
                  
                     17
                            Ibid., VII, 167n, 312; Rich, The History of the 
                                    United States
                                 Post Office, 85.
                  
                     18 Carter, The Territorial Papers of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , VII, 360.
                  
                     19
                            Ibid., VIII, 234; Post Office Letterbook, Postmaster General, II 81,
                        46.
               
                     or mail route, must be established from the nearest post office
                    to every county seat in existence or to be founded.20 This promise intensified
                    the competition among towns to obtain the county courthouse.
            Mail service improved very slowly. The service from 
                        Vincennes
                     to 
                        Kaskaskia
                     was made fortnightly in 1809, and the carrier was to be fined ten dollars for every
                    half hour he was late.21 The announced schedules were in a sense ideals, not
                    realities; they represented optimum service. Bad weather, accidents, Indian attack, illness,
                    drunkenness, and willful neglect easily upset the schedules. There were frequent complaints by the
                    populace and the postmasters.
            The contractors, those hardy men who actually carried the mail between towns and on whom the whole
                    service depended, were an independent lot. They worked directly for the Post Office Department in 
                        Washington
                     and had small regard for the village postmasters whose salaries were so far below
                    theirs. The postmasters reciprocated this disdain and were ever ready to make complaints to the
                    Postmaster General over delayed mails. Much of the federal official's time was occupied in
                    warning and threatening irresponsible contractors, in seeking more information about derelictions of
                    duty, and in canceling contracts and awarding new ones. Since he could not know available local
                    inhabitants he had, perforce, to ask the local postmaster to find local bidders and recommend the
                    best one. So whatever the attitude of the contractor, he found himself under the necessity of
                    pleasing the postmasters along his route or of losing his job.
            Some of the complaints should be mentioned. The Postmaster General complained to the 
                        Vincennes
                     postmaster in 1808 that the mail to 
                        Louisville
                     had failed to arrive on January 16, 23, or 30, the regular days, but had shown up once
                    on the twenty-fifth. The contractor was accused of excessive drinking. The westbound rider out of 
                        Vincennes
                     apparently had some trouble getting across the Wabash River when
                    he started out or returned. Finally the Postmaster General sent word to the ferryman that he would
                    be fined ten dollars for every half hour he detained the mail. Another carrier started 
                  
                     20
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, III, 132-133.
                  
                     21 Carter, The Territorial Papers of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , VIII, 9, 581,
               
                     on his route in December's bad weather, gave up after
                    a few miles and returned to 
                        Vincennes
                    . His excuse was nullified, however, by the fact that private travelers were able to
                    proceed that day, and he was threatened with a fine. One of the riders to Kaskaskia was killed by
                    Indians and his mail pouch stolen.22
            
            It is not to be wondered at that the failures of individual riders prompted the government to prefer
                    sending the mail by stage coaches as soon as regular routes were established. However, even this was
                    not always a satisfactory solution, for a passenger paid a higher fare than a mail sack for the same
                    space inside the coach. Therefore when the coach grew crowded, the driver pitched out a mail bag
                    (usually the bulky one containing newspapers) in order to make room for another more lucrative
                        passenger.22
            
            Sometimes the postmasters themselves were responsible for delayed mails. Thus a postmaster might hold
                    up sending mail West until the carrier from the East had arrived, and vice versa. The Postmaster
                    General tried to impress on them that this practice could not be permitted. The mail must leave a
                    given office on schedule, regardless of whether the connecting mails had arrived, or the failure of
                    one carrier would delay the entire route or system of routes.
            While John D. Hay was postmaster at 
                        Vincennes
                    , his house burned down on January 21, 1814, at night. The local paper reported that
                    "He kept the post office and is recorder for this county; every book and paper belonging to
                    both offices were consumed." However, that was incidental to the loss of his three children
                    and of two local fire fighters in the conflagration, which was made so destructive by the odd fact
                    that he had three hundred pounds of gunpowder stored in his house.
            The loudest complainers about irregularities and delays were the newspapers. They were dependent upon
                    receipt of letters and other newspapers for material with which to fill their own columns.
                    Consequently, the failure of the mails affected their livelihood directly. Even though they were
                    privileged users of the mails, they did not hesitate to curse 
                  
                     22
                            Ibid., VII, 535, 581, 641-642; VIII, 35.
                  
                     23 Rich, The History of the 
                                    United States
                                 Post Office, 99.
               
                     all and sundry connected with the service when press time came
                    and went without a mail delivery.
            The editor of the Western Sun (
                        Vincennes
                    ) wrote in his issue of January 21, 1809: "There having been no mail for near
                    four weeks from 
                        Louisville
                     and none from beyond there for five must account for and be an excuse for the
                    barrenness of this day's Sun. Literary productions, always acceptable, would in this dearth
                    of news be highly gratifying." Five years later another note indicates that the service was
                    not much more reliable in winter: "Owing to high waters, we have had no mail this week,
                    either from the East or West, which will, we hope, account for the barrenness of this day's
                        paper."24
            
            The peculiar position of newspapers in the postal system requires a brief explanation. In colonial
                    days, when Benjamin Franklin was joint postmaster general of the colonies, newspapers were not
                    admitted to the mails. However, publishers frequently were appointed postmasters, and they arranged
                    with the post riders to carry their own paper as an extra parcel and to exclude that of their
                    rivals. In 1758 Franklin opened up the mails to all newspapers at low fixed rates.25 This consideration was adopted in the basic laws enacted in 1782 by the Confederation. But
                    in 1792, the free exchange of copies between newspaper publishers was granted.26
                    The idea of a free press and an informed electorate seems to have prompted this privilege to a
                    private business.
            Printers' exchanges soon became a burden on the Post Office Department, but every effort to
                    reduce the number of papers sent free for exchange brought cries of pain and anguish from every
                    editor. When it was once proposed to abolish the carriage of free exchanges, the 
                        Detroit
                    
                    Gazette managed somehow to label it an "unconstitutional
                        scheme."27 When the Postmaster General suggested limiting free
                    exchanges to fifty for each paper, the 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    National Republican called it "a direct blow at the strongest bulwark of
                        
                  
                     24
                            
                                Vincennes
                            , Western Sun, February 26, 1814.
                  
                     25 Rich, The History of the 
                                    United States
                                 Post Office, 37.
                  
                     26
                            Journals of the Continental Congress, 1774-1789 (34 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1904-1937), XXIII (1914), 670-679; 
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, I, 238.
                  
                     27 April 5, 1822.
               
                     free government."28 Actually, of
                    course, the free receipt of other newspapers meant that any given editor had the services of several
                    hundred on-the-spot reporters free of charge. But because every Congressman was supported by some
                    newspapers, their views on the mail carried weight. What Congressman would deliberately offend his
                    party's editors or his own supporters?
            The Post Office Department's financial problem in regard to all newspapers, both free and
                    postpaid, was aggravated by the flimsy wrappings in which they were mailed. And because of their
                    bulk they were usually carried outside the stage coaches, exposed to the weather, or if inside,
                    passengers put their feet on them or opened them to read the news.29 In brief,
                    newspapers were much more bothersome to transport than letters, and the trouble was made less
                    palatable by the twin facts that some of them had to be carried free and that any failures in
                    handling brought forth complaints from persons provided with the longest ranged voices.
            Magazines and pamphlets were not admitted to the mails at all. Postmaster General Pickering had ruled
                    that they were subject to letter postage, and this charge excluded them. Their weight and bulk was
                    also recognized as a handicap to the speed of the mails. Only religious societies were granted
                    permission to circulate such publications. It was not until the end of the territorial period, 1816,
                    that by an act of Congress magazines and pamphlets were admitted to the mail and special postage
                    rates provided.30 By this same act, letter postage was reduced to six cents for
                    the first thirty miles, on up to twenty-five cents for distances over four hundred miles. No further
                    changes were made until 1836.
            Toward the end of the territorial period, in 1814, Indiana had sixteen post offices and six hundred
                    nine miles of post roads, in a territory of thirteen counties. The cost of transporting the mails
                    over the routes was $987.50, while the proceeds from the sale of postage amounted to
                        $542.63.31 At least four more post offices were established
                    before Indiana 
                  
                     28
                            National Republican and 
                                    Ohio
                                 Political Register, February 25, 1825.
                  
                     29 Rich, The History of the 
                                    United States
                                 Post Office, 143.
                  
                     30
                            Ibid., 145.
                  
                     31 Carter, The Territorial Papers of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , VIII, 305n.
               
                     joined the Union. Mail still moved across the state on weekly
                    schedules, and delays or failures and losses were frequent. But the pattern was laid for extending
                    routes, for appointing postmasters, and for handling three classes of mail—letters,
                    newspapers, and magazines.
         
         
         
            The Race Issue in Indiana Politics during the Civil War
            Emma Lou Thornbrough∗
            
            In recent years the Tallmadges—father and son—have won elections in 
                        Georgia
                     by campaigning on the issue of "white supremacy." This type of appeal
                    has not been limited to 
                        Georgia
                    . The race question has also played a part in other states with heavy colored
                    populations, but such campaigns are confined to the South today. However this has not always been
                    the case. In the middle of the nineteenth century the race question was a very live political issue
                    in Indiana.
            The census of 1860 showed Indiana as having a population of 11,428 Negroes as compared with a total
                    of 1,338,710 whites. In other words the Negroes constituted less than one per cent of the total.
                    Figures of successive censuses from 1800 to 1860 showed that the number of Negroes in Indiana
                    relative to the white population had steadily declined.1 Nevertheless the race
                    issue had a conspicuous place in Indiana politics until after the Civil War.
            It is well known that there had been an influential pro-slavery group in Indiana Territory and that
                    the territorial legislature had passed an indenture law which amounted to a thinly disguised
                        slavery.2 With the achievement of statehood the party opposed to slavery was
                    in the ascendancy, but the state legislature continued to manifest a strong bias against the free
                    Negroes already in the state and took measures to prevent an increase in their numbers. Not only
                    were Negroes and Mulattoes denied the vote and the privilege of serving in the militia, they were
                    also prevented by law from testifying in court in a case in which a white man was a party.3
            
            On the subject of marriage between members of the white and colored races Indiana's
                    legislators enacted more 
                  
                     ∗ Emma Lou Thornbrough is an associate professor of history
                            at 
                                Butler
                             University, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana. This paper was read at the history session at the annual meeting of
                            the Indiana Academy of Social Sciences at 
                                Muncie
                            , Indiana, November 4, 1950.
                  
                     1
                            
                                United States
                             Bureau of the Census, Negro Population, 1790-1915 (
                                Washington
                            , 1915), 44-45.
                  
                     2 Francis S. Philbrick (ed.), The Laws of Indiana
                                Territory, 1801-1809 (
                        Springfield,
                                    Illinois
                     , 1930), 136-139. This
                            is volume XXI in the 
                                Illinois
                             State Historical Library Collections (
                                Springfield
                            , 1903-).
                  
                     3
                            Laws of Indiana, 1817-1818, p. 39; ibid., 1853, p.
                        60.
               
                     drastic measures than those of any other northern state.
                    Successive laws were passed which provided severe penalties for persons entering into such unions
                    and for persons aiding or abetting them. For example, the act of 1840, which was entitled
                    "An Act to Prohibit the Amalgamation of Whites and Blacks," provided fines of from
                    one to five thousand dollars and confinement in the state prison for terms of from ten to twenty
                    years for persons marrying in violation of this act. A minister performing such a marriage was
                    subject to a fine of from one to ten thousand dollars.4
            
            A question which appeared to alarm the lawmakers even more that the status of the colored population
                    already in the state was the possibility of an influx of free Negroes and fugitive slaves from the
                    South. In 1831 the Indiana General Assembly followed the example of 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Illinois
                     and passed a law which required any black or mulatto person coming into the state to
                    post bond as a guarantee of good behavior and as security against becoming a public charge.5 The convention which drew up the second state constitution sought to put an
                    even more effective guarantee of white supremacy into the document. The notorious Article Thirteen
                    provided that no Negro or Mulatto should come into the state after the adoption of the constitution
                    and provided that fines collected for violation of the article should be appropriated to pay for the
                    colonization of such Negroes. This article was submitted to the voters separately and was ratified
                    by even larger majorities than the main body of the constitution.6
            
            It is not surprising that a state which had enacted such measures should show little enthusiasm for
                    the antislavery movement, nor that the Liberty and Free Soil parties encountered much hostility
                    within its borders. In no other part of the country was feeling in favor of the finality of the
                    Compromise of 1850 more marked, and the Republican party got off to a slow start. The coalition
                    which developed in Indiana in the fifties in opposition to the dominant Democratic party was held
                    together by other forces, such as temperance and Know-Nothingism, as much as by opposition to the
                    extension 
                  
                     4
                            Ibid., 1839-1840, pp. 32-33. See also ibid., 1817-1818,
                            94; and Indiana Revised Statutes of 1852, I, 361-363.
                  
                     5
                            Revised Laws of Indiana, 1830-1831, pp. 375-376.
                  
                     6 Charles Kettleborough, Constitution Making in
                            Indiana (3 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916, 1930), I, XCII, 360-363. These are volumes I, II, XVII in the Indiana
                            Historical Collections (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916-).
               
                     of slavery. The name "Republican" was not
                    adopted in Indiana as early as in other states.
            The rise of the Republican party in the field of national politics and the coming of the Civil War
                    gave new emphasis to the race question. It is true that little that was new was added to the
                    arguments. Most of them were already threadbare and few of them were rational. Appeals to race
                    prejudice were the stock in trade of many a politician. Even some of the most distinguished, such as
                    Stephen A. Douglas, had shown a willingness in the past to resort to such tactics. But the appeals
                    took on a new intensity because for the first time there appeared to be a real possibility of a
                    drastic change in the status of the Negro population in the South. Democrats made much of the
                    possible threat to white supremacy in the campaign of 1860.
            In order to elect a president in 1860 it was necessary for the Republicans to carry Indiana and 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , states which they had failed to carry in 1856. To assure victory in these states the
                    voters must be convinced that the party was not as "radical" as its opponents
                    alleged. It was imperative to refute the charges of "abolitionism" and to nominate
                    a candidate who would be reassuring to the cautious. Even Horace Greeley's 
                        New York
                    
                    Tribune was quoted as declaring "The Republican party is not an abolition
                    party. It has never proposed to use the power of the Federal Government to abolish
                    slavery… . It does not contemplate any national scheme of emancipation of the African
                        race."7 Indiana Republicans were active in promoting the nomination
                    of Abraham Lincoln, who was considered a safer candidate, one less tainted with
                    "ultra-ism" than the better known William H. Seward.
            Democrats regarded the efforts of their opponents to represent their party and candidate as
                    "conservative" as sheer hypocrisy and charged Lincoln with being an advocate of
                    Negro equality. Stephen A. Douglas declared: "The rights of the negro; the equality of the
                    negro with the white man, universal suffrage, extending to negroes as well as to white men, is the
                    grand central theme of the Republican organization." Lesser Democrats followed his lead and
                    enlarged upon the theme. They warned that Republican policies would lead to an influx of Negroes
                    into Indiana from the South and that 
                  
                     7 Quoted in 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily State Sentinel, February 18, 1860.
               
                     the white laborer would suffer from competition with the black
                    man. Worse than this—the Republicans were planning to give the vote to the Negro, and the
                    fact that 
                        Massachusetts
                     and 
                        Maine
                    , two Republican strongholds, had Negro suffrage was cited as irrefutable evidence of
                    this intention. Worst of all—amalgamation of the races would be the inevitable result of
                    a Republican victory.8
            
            Republicans sought to answer these charges by reiterating that they had no intention of interfering
                    with slavery in states where it was already established. In fact, rather than leading to an increase
                    in the number of Negroes in the North, their policies would prevent an increase. For was not a basic
                    principle of the party the exclusion of slaves (i.e. Negroes) from the territories? They scoffed at
                    the suggestion that they favored racial amalgamation and pointed out with considerable glee that the
                    only part of the country in which miscegenation was practiced on a wide scale was in the slave
                    states where presumably most masters were members of the Democratic party.9
            
            Indeed, it was abundantly clear that many Republicans had little or no humanitarian interest in the
                    welfare of the Negro. They were almost frantic in their efforts to disclaim any intention of
                    elevating his condition. The following excerpt from a letter to the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Daily Journal illustrates the attitude of conservative Indiana Republicans:
                    "When we reflect that an illustrious Democrat, Dick Johnson, furnishes the only instance of
                    an American statesman marrying a negro wife… . When we know that in those States where
                    Democratic principles and practices flourish in perfection, that the amalgamation of the white and
                    black races is a permanent institution, and when it is proclaimed by the Democrats that the niggers
                    and white people have a free fight for the occupancy of the territories, while the Republicans
                    propose to allow the white man have the territories and exclude the negro therefrom …
                    [there can be no doubt as to which is the white man's party]. Let the people choose between
                    the nigger Democracy and the white man's party."10
            
            
               
                  8
                        Ibid., May 5, 19, 31, October 2, 10, 80, January 13, 17, March 16, 27, April
                        27, June 21, August 17, September 1, 1860.
               
                  9
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Journal, March 8, September 6, 15, 27, October 1, 6, 16, May 19, June
                        22, September 29, 1860.
               
                  10
                        Ibid., June 26, 1860.
            
            
            Apparently these protestations reassured the voters, for the Republicans carried Indiana in 1860. Two
                    years later there would be a different result.
            Almost as soon as the election returns were known the country was faced with the secession crisis.
                    After an initial period of floundering and indecision during which the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal called for a policy of compromise, Indiana Republicans united under the
                    resolute leadership of Governor Oliver P. Morton in support of a policy of preserving the Union by
                    force, if necessary.11 Indiana Democrats were loudly demanding compromise and
                    were opposed to the use of coercion. With the outbreak of a shooting war most members of the party
                    came loyally to the support of the military effort, but they continued to insist that the war could
                    have been avoided by the adoption of the Crittenden Compromise and they never ceased to charge the
                    Republican party with responsibility for the country's woes.
            As the nation plunged deeper and deeper into the conflict, the question inevitably
                    arose—what was the relationship of slavery to the war which was being waged to preserve
                    the Union? This was, of course, one of the most important and complex questions facing the Lincoln
                    administration. It was to become a major political issue in Indiana and one which gave rise to great
                    bitterness.
            From the beginning radical Republicans branded slavery with being the cause of the war and saw in the
                    war an opportunity to destroy the hated institution. The Indiana True Republican
                    (mouthpiece of George W. Julian) declared: "There can be no final
                    settlement of our troubles, no permanent peace to the country except through
                    the extirpation of its grand cause, throughout the length and
                    breadth of the Union, and now is the accepted time for effecting the good
                        work."12
            
            More conservative Republican opinion, as represented by the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal, urged caution. Any hasty action with regard to slavery might alienate the
                    loyal slave states and would create the problem of the status of the freedmen.13
            
            
               
                  11
                        Ibid., November 10, 19, December 21, 1860. The Journal was
                        sharply rebuked by the Centreville Indiana True Republican, December 6, 1860;
                        January 31, February 7, 1861. Kenneth M. Stampp, Indiana Politics during the Civil
                            War (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1949), 59-61. This is volume XXXI in the Indiana Historical Collections.
               
               
                  12 Centreville Indiana True Republican, May 16, 23, 30,
                        1861.
               
                  13
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Journal, November 26, December 10, 1861.
            
            
            The Democrats continued to blame the war on the abolitionist element in the Republican party, and
                    they were constantly on the alert to detect any signs that the administration was attempting to turn
                    the struggle into an antislavery crusade. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel warned: "There are two facts, supreme and everlasting, which
                    will dominate and shape the civil strife which now distracts the nation. The first is, that the
                    Union must and will be preserved; the second, that it can never be preserved by an anti-slavery
                    policy. Secession and abolition must go down together… ." "An
                    abolitionist in Indiana is as much an enemy of the Government as a secessionist in 
                        South Carolina
                    ." Public opinion was opposed to turning the purpose of the war into the
                    extermination of slavery, it was asserted, and "the best blood of the North will never be
                    shed in so disgraceful a cause as that of negro emancipation."14
            
            On the whole throughout 1861 the attitude of Lincoln on the explosive slavery issue received the
                    approbation of the Sentinel. In fact he was congratulated for succeeding in
                    holding in check the abolitionists in his party and for giving the country "proofs that he
                    is making battle for the Union and not for the negro."15
            
            This confidence in the President's conservatism was to be rudely shattered during the next
                    months, and he was to become the object of bitter attack for his alleged betrayal of earlier
                    pledges. The first indication of developments to come was a tentative proposal in the
                    President's message to Congress in December, 1861, in which he suggested federal financial
                    assistance for any state which would undertake a program of gradual emancipation.16 Intense opposition was immediately manifested by Indiana Democrats. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel cried: "The people of Indiana do not want to be taxed to buy
                    negroes." The 
                        New Albany
                    
                    Ledger opined: "Were this question made an issue in the election of
                    members of Congress, but few in favor of taxing the people to buy up 
                  
                     14
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily State Sentinel, July 19, 23, October 15, 1861 (italics inserted).
                  
                     15
                            Ibid., October, 23, 1861. The 
                        
                                    Marion County
                                 Clarion declared: "The present Administration is trying to do
                            right, but is so hampered by the Abolitionists that it can hardly move." Quoted in
                                ibid., November 21, 1861.
                  
                     16 James D. Richardson (ed.), A Compilation of the
                                Messages and Papers of the Presidents, 1789-1897 (10 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1896-1899), VI (1897), 68.
               
                     the Negroes of the South would be chosen." An address
                    of the Democratic State Committee which appeared during the following summer branded the proposal a
                    measure of "transcendant injustice and oppression to the white race in the free
                        States."17
            
            This response indicated the way in which Democrats were to react to later steps in the direction of
                    emancipation and also foreshadowed the type of political campaign which they intended to wage in
                    1862. Most Indiana Democrats refused to accept the invitation of the Republicans to join with them
                    in forming a Union party. They stuck to their own organization and hoped to regain control in the
                    fall elections by stressing the dangers of emancipation and the related question of the status of
                    the free Negro.
            At the Democratic State Convention which assembled on January 8, 1862, Thomas A. Hendricks, who was
                    to be the party's choice for 
                        United States
                     Senator, declared in the opening address: "With the negro slave and his
                    condition, we have nothing to do, nothing whatever, either as a purpose, incident or consequence of
                    the war." Resolutions adopted at the convention condemned the "twin heresies,
                    Northern sectionalism and Southern secession," and pledged the party to support a war for
                    preserving the Constitution and the Union, but warned: "We are opposed to a war for the
                    emancipation of the Negroes," and branded proposals "to liberate and arm the negro
                    slaves" as "unconstitutional, insulting to loyal citizens, a disgrace to the
                        age."18
            
            There is considerable evidence that the party leaders had rightly gauged the reactions of the voters
                    of Indiana. If the actions of county conventions are in any way reliable criteria of the opinions of
                    the voters at the "grass roots" level, the mass of Democrats were genuinely
                    alarmed over emancipation and its possible consequences. Democratic county conventions held in the
                    closing weeks of 1861, before the state convention, had been almost unanimous in warning against
                    turning the war into an abolitionist crusade and in condemning proposals to use Negro troops. The
                    following resolutions 
                  
                     17
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily State Sentinel, March 8, 12, August 11, 1862. See also an editorial
                            quoted from the 
                                Louisville
                            
                            Democrat: "The conservative men and Democrats will revolt at the
                            idea of paying out of the earnings of white men thousands of millions [of dollars] for the
                            idle, worthless negro." Ibid., March 13, 1862.
                  
                     18
                            Ibid., January 9, 1862.
               
                     are typical: "Whereas, an effort is now being made in
                    Congress to add to our other calamities the additional one of the abolition of slavery… .
            "Resolved, that it is the duty of all conservative men, and all true lovers of the Union, to
                    set their faces like flint against the wicked abolitionist heresy." Democratic County
                    Convention at 
                        Muncie
                    .
            "Resolved that we hold that this Government was made on the white basis, by white men, for
                    the benefit of white men and their posterity forever, and that whenever the white man and the negro
                    come in contact in this country the normal condition of the latter is in a state of inferiority and
                    servitude." Democratic County Convention of 
                        Rush County
                    .
            "We denounce the attempt now being made by the Abolitionists to convert the present
                    unnatural civil war into a war for the emancipation of the slaves." 
                        Fountain County
                     Democratic Convention.
            "The proposition to arm the slaves of the South is an insult to every American
                    citizen… . That the adoption of a course so barbarous would be an acknowledgement to the
                    world that the white men of the loyal states do not possess strength and patriotism sufficient to
                    enable them to preserve the institutions handed down to us." 
                        Elkhart
                     Democratic County Convention.
            "None but cowards or assassins in or out of Congress, would desire that slaves be armed by
                    the Government to assist in putting down this rebellion." 
                        Howard County
                     Democratic Convention.19
            
            A district convention while denying that there was any "irrepressible Conflict"
                    between the free states and slave states, asserted: "There is an irrepressible conflict
                    between the labor of free white men and free negroes." The defeat of Schuyler Colfax was
                    urged because "he has by his votes shown a greater regard for the negro than the white
                        man."20
            
            These examples could be multiplied many times. It will be noted that none of the quotations above are
                    from conventions in counties in the extreme south and that some of them are from counties in the
                    northern part of the state. This would seem to indicate that the anti-Negro bias was not confined to
                    the southern part of the state.
            
               
                  19
                        Ibid., January 1, 6, 1862; December 24, 30, 31, 1861.
               
                  20
                        Ibid., July 25, August 16, 1862.
            
            
            In spite of the warnings of the Democrats, the exigencies of the military situation plus the
                    increasing efforts of the more radical Republicans were converting the President and many moderates
                    to measures which would mean the weakening of slavery.
            Very early in the war Union men realized that the South possessed a military advantage in the labor
                    of its slaves and had begun to urge steps to deprive the enemy of this advantage. The 
                        Logansport
                    
                    Journal demanded: "Are such active, fatal instruments [slaves] to be
                    allowed to take part in the war and be regarded as too sacred for capture, confiscation, or removal?
                    … As property when captured, they should be used for the benefit of the government, to
                    the best advantage—just like ships, horses and cattle are employed after
                        capture."21
            
            As the war progressed this line of reasoning came to be generally accepted among Republicans and by
                    many Democrats as well. Indiana's Republican representatives in Congress supported the
                    Confiscation Act which Congress finally adopted in July, 1862. Senator Joseph Wright, a
                    "War Democrat" appointed by Governor Morton to fill the unexpired term of Jesse
                    Bright, also supported the Confiscation Act in its final form. However, Wright did not go along with
                    the more radical Republicans in other measures which were under consideration by Congress. For
                    example, he opposed immediate emancipation of the slaves in the 
                        District of Columbia
                    . He also voted against the measure abolishing slavery in the territories although his
                    colleague, Henry S. Lane, and the Republican delegation in the House voted for it.22
            
            Meanwhile, Indiana Democrats were viewing with alarm and condemning every sign that the
                    Administration or Congress might be veering in the direction of an emancipation program.
                    Representative Daniel Voorhees, loudest critic of the Republicans among Indiana Democrats, devoted
                    his maiden speech in the House to a denunciation of any and all schemes of emancipation. Any such
                    proposal, he declared, was a betrayal of promises made by the Republicans at the beginning of the
                    war. The soldiers from Indiana were fighting to preserve 
                  
                     21
                            
                                Logansport
                            , Indiana, Journal, August 8, 1861.
                  
                     22
                            Congressional Globe, 37 Cong., 2 Sess., 3276, 1518, 2618, 2769.
                            Wright's conservatism was scathingly denounced by some Republicans. See, for
                            example, Centreville Indiana True Republican, April 10, 24, 1862.
               
                     the Union and Constitution as they were established by the
                    founders. "They want no four million slaves set free. They have no money with which to
                    purchase territories for vast schemes of colonization… . Let them [the Administration]
                    announce … that the condition of every human being in the South shall remain
                        unchanged, whether the revolution shall succeed or fail."23
            
            The Democrats were also alarmed over signs that the Republicans in Congress were seeking to bring
                    about the much dreaded "negro equality." For example, bills were introduced to
                    repeal the laws which prohibited Negroes from testifying in the courts of the 
                        District of Columbia
                     and which prevented them from carrying 
                        United States
                     mail. When Senator Charles Sumner made the latter proposal the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel charged: "Sumner sees nothing, thinks of nothing, and talks of
                    nothing but his ebony brethren." The same paper warned: "There are other measures
                    of a similar kind, but [they] have not been fully matured and laid before Congress. By the time that
                    body gives them a full discussion it will have little leisure to consider the interests of white
                        men."24
            
            Establishment of diplomatic relations with the Negro republics of Hayti and 
                        Liberia
                     was the occasion for one of the tirades of Voorhees. Congress, he asserted, had
                    "taken advantage of this war to corrupt the foreign policy of the government, and to
                    recognize the only two negro governments on the face of the earth as our national equals…
                    . The people are taxed to send ministers to these dusky barbarians, in order to show the world that
                    negro equality is at last one of the institutions of this country." The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel remarked: "The legislation of this Republican Congress is
                    devoted to the negro. It is negro first, negro last, and negro all the time."25
            
            Much stress was laid upon the extravagance of the government in 
                        Washington
                     in caring for runaway slaves while the wives and children of white soldiers were in
                    want. The following excerpt is typical: "White soldiers, sick and wounded, wives and
                    children of those soldiers … may suffer agony … and no humanitarian doctrines
                    are preached for 
                  
                     23
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily State Sentinel, February 28, 1862.
                  
                     24
                            Ibid., March 20, 22, 1862.
                  
                     25
                            Ibid., March 13, 1863, April 26, 1862.
               
                     them by these nigger-charmed saints of
                    Republicanism—no Government disbursements for their support. But for twenty-five thousand
                    fat, shiny, greasy, fragrant niggers, the Government is giving a perenial entertainment…
                    . The constitutional Government of the 
                        United States
                     is keeping a grand national 'nigger dance house'… . And
                    every grain of wheat, every kernel of corn, every potato raised in the great Northwest must be taxed
                    to help pay for this philo-niggerous [sic] experiment of the Abolitionists of 
                        New England
                    ."26
            
            There were also warnings that the "contrabands" around the nation's
                    capital were threatening a social revolution. Already they were beginning to attend lectures at the
                    Smithsonian Institution and were seeking admission to the gallery of the House of Representatives.
                    Where would this end?27
            
            The suggestion that Negro troops might be used to suppress the rebellion aroused even greater
                    hysteria. In an editorial which was violent even for its columns the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel charged that the Abolitionists were proposing to "arm the whole
                    race and instruct them to shoot the men, ravish the women and strangle the children of the South
                    indiscriminately." Thomas A. Hendricks warned that the "proud men of
                    Indiana" would refuse to fight beside colored troops.28
            
            Much of the alarm expressed by the Democrats was no doubt manufactured for political purposes. Yet
                    underneath it all lay a deep and widespread conviction that no policy must be adopted which would
                    lead to a fundamental change in the status of the Negro population.
            Many strong Union men, including conservative Republicans, continued to uphold Indiana's
                    laws for the exclusion of Negroes and to advocate a policy of colonizing free Negroes outside the 
                        United States
                    . On the floor of the Senate Joseph Wright spoke in favor of both policies and warned
                    the radicals: "In your zeal for emancipation you must ingraft colonization upon your
                    measure." He also sought to assure the voters of Indiana that the Confiscation Act would
                    not mean 
                  
                     26
                            Ibid., May 15, 1862. The above quotation is from the column of the 
                                Washington
                             correspondent of the 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Times whose venomous articles appeared almost daily in the Sentinel An editorial from the 
                                Detroit
                            
                            Free Press entitled "The Poor Whites" cried:
                            "For God's sake let somebody do something for white men!" Quoted
                            in ibid., April 24, 1862.
                  
                     27
                            Ibid., March 27, 1862.
                  
                     28
                            Ibid., December 21, 1861, January 9, 1862.
               
                     Negro immigration into Indiana. He insisted that
                    "slaves who are taken from rebels … will be colonized out of the
                        proceeds of the rebels' property."29
            
            Andrew Porter, the Republican member of the House from the 
                        Indianapolis
                     district, also advocated using the money derived from confiscation of rebel property to
                    colonize members of a race which "from the prejudices of caste and aversions of color, must
                    always be an alien and degraded one." Republican Senator Henry S. Lane also favored
                    colonization, though insisting that it should be voluntary.30
            
            Actually Indiana's colonization legislation, which all of these gentlemen praised, was a
                    dead letter, not one Negro having been sent to 
                        Liberia
                     from Indiana for over three years. It is also doubtful that there was much effort to
                    enforce the exclusion law, or, indeed, that it was capable of being enforced. Nevertheless,
                    Democrats continued to pose as upholders of the exclusion measures and to excoriate the Republican
                    administration for failure to enforce them. In consequence of this laxity, they warned, the state
                    was in danger of being overrun by Negroes. As the election of 1862 drew nearer items concerning the
                    influx of Negroes appeared frequently in the Democratic press, and in the campaign great stress was
                    placed on the threat to white labor. On the eve of the October elections the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel warned: "If Abolitionism triumphs at the polls to-morrow our
                    State will be flooded with negroes, devouring our substance like the locusts of 
                        Egypt
                    ."31
            
            Of course there were other issues in the campaign. The Democrats also leveled their attacks on the
                    high tariff, the growing national debt, and the invasion of civil liberties by the Lincoln
                    administration, especially the suspension of the writ of habeas corpus and the
                    draft. They also blamed the party in power for the dreary succession of military failures. 
                  
                     29
                            Congressional Globe, 37 Cong., 2 Sess., 1468; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, August 7, 1862.
                  
                     30
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, June 28, 1862; Congressional Globe, 37
                            Cong. 2 Sess., 1730-1731.
                  
                     31
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, January 22, 1861. See an exchange between George W. Julian
                            and William Holman over this question. Julian called the exclusion law "notoriously
                            a dead letter." Holman challenged this but admitted that the colonization law had
                            accomplished nothing. Congressional Globe, 37 Cong., 2 Sess., 2503. See
                            also 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily State Sentinel, April 19, 22, 29, May 5, October 13, 1862.
               
                     But so heavily did they rely on appeals to race prejudice that
                    even the conservative Senator Wright gibbed at them.32
            
            On the whole Republican-Union party supporters ignored emancipation and the race question as much as
                    possible. They were fighting frantically to stay in power, for the local elections in the spring had
                    shown that the tide was running in favor of the Democrats. The Democrats attributed this to the
                    abolitionist leanings of the Republicans. In their desperation Republicans concentrated their
                    efforts on "exposing" the alleged "disloyalty" of the Democrats.
                    They denounced secret societies and talked much of the Indiana "traitors" who
                    belonged to them. They charged Hendricks and Voorhees with plotting the formation of a Northwest
                    confederacy and accused the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel of defending the right of secession. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal sought to convince the voters that the defeat of the Union party would
                    mean success for the rebel cause.33
            
            In the meantime, more and more pressure was being brought upon the Lincoln administration to proclaim
                    a policy of general emancipation. For example, in July, Robert Dale Owen, a life-long Democrat and
                    formerly an advocate of compromise if necessary to save the Union, addressed a letter to the
                    Secretary of War in which he announced his conversion to the necessity of emancipation as the only
                    means of ending the war and insuring a lasting peace.34
            
            Owen's plea, even though he advocated compensation for loyal slaveholders, was as yet too
                    advanced for Indiana's leading Republican newspaper. While admitting that more and more
                    people were coming to share Owen's views, the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal warned that "except as a last resort, … we cannot see
                    that Mr. Owen's policy will not produce as many difficulties as it will
                        remove."35
            
            Horace Greeley's "Prayer of Twenty Millions" in which he besought Lincoln
                    to proclaim emancipation also called forth a remonstrance from the Journal:
                    "Twenty millions of people 
                  
                     32
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, August 7, 1862.
                  
                     33
                            Ibid., July 16, 18, 29, 31, August 4, October 14, 1862; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily State Sentinel, April 11, May 12, 1862. A letter to the editor of
                            the Sentinel predicted: "the Democracy of Indiana will, this fall
                            at the ballot box, testify their opposition to Abolitionism, free negro equality and
                            amalgamation." Ibid., May 24, 1862. 
                                Madison
                            , Indiana, Daily Courier, September 27, 1862.
                  
                     34
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, August 11, 1862.
                  
                            35
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                     would like quite as well as Mr. Greeley to see this rebellion
                    put down in a month, but … they do not feel at all sure that Mr. Greeley's mode
                    … is in every respect wiser or more likely to succeed than the other. A good many of them
                    are quite sure that his mode would weaken the union, … and strengthen
                        rebellion."36
            
            The pleadings and warning of the conservatives were in vain. The President finally succumbed to other
                    pressures and issued the preliminary Emancipation Proclamation on September 22, on the very eve of
                    the October elections in Indiana. The Indiana radicals were pleased. Their only regret was that the
                    proclamation would not go into effect at once. 37
            
            The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal was strangely silent. It made no comment whatsoever until twitted by the
                        Sentinel and then finally published an editorial in which the proclamation was
                    upheld as a means of weakening the rebellion.38 In a speech in
                            
                  Washington, D.C.
               , Governor Morton spoke of the proclamation as a "stratagem
                    of war." However, it was apparent that both the Journal and the governor
                    were on the defensive and that neither displayed any real enthusiasm. They were painfully aware that
                    an election was imminent.
            To the Democrats the proclamation was a betrayal of all the past pledges of the President. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel saw in it only a confession of weakness and an invitation to disaster.
                    "The die is cast. The issue of abolition is now fairly made. The people of Indiana must
                    decide at the ballot box whether they are for or against it."
            The October elections were a distinct triumph for the Indiana Democrats. They won seven of
                    Indiana's eleven seats in the House of Representatives as compared with four seats in 1860.
                    Even in such strongholds as the districts of George W. Julian and Schuyler Colfax, Republican
                    majorities were sharply reduced. The Democrats gained control over the General Assembly.
            Headlines in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel announcing the glorious news proclaimed: ABOLITIONISM
                        SLAUGHTERED! The outcome was seen as a victory for constitutional 
                  
                     36
                            Ibid., August 25, 1862.
                  
                     37 Centreville Indiana True Republican, September
                            26, 1862. The 
                                Logansport
                            , Indiana, Journal, September 27, 1862, called the
                            proclamation the greatest document since the Declaration of Independence.
                  
                     38
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, September 27, 1862.
               
                     liberty and a denunciation of emancipation. A second editorial
                    interpreted the result as a "voice against the frauds, the corruption and imbecility of the
                    party in power—against the emancipation schemes and proclamations of the
                    Administration—against taxing the people to buy negroes, and a rebuke to the Republican
                    Party for repudiating the Crit-tenden Compromise … which would have prevented civil
                    war." A few days later it was asserted that the Republicans lost because the soldiers of
                    Indiana did not want to compete with Negro labor when they came home. The Sentinel
                    counseled: "The defeated politicians of Indiana must abandon this emancipation policy which
                    strikes at the honor and remuneration of labor, before they can repair their fortunes by an appeal
                    to Indiana's working men or Indiana's soldiery."39
            
            The Republicans naturally put a very different interpretation upon the outcome. They attributed their
                    defeat not to the opposition of the Indiana soldiers to Lincoln's policies but rather to
                    the fact that soldiers could not vote. It was asserted that the absence of seventy thousand voters
                    who were in the army was the major reason for the Democratic victory.40
            
            Whatever the explanation the Lincoln administration had suffered a startling setback. Republican
                    reverses were not limited to Indiana. The Democrats also carried 
                  New York, Pennsylvania, Ohio
               , and 
                        Illinois
                    .
            Following the Emancipation Proclamation and the Republican defeats there was a marked change in the
                    treatment accorded the President by the Democratic press. Heretofore there had usually been more
                    restraint in the language used about Lincoln than in that used to describe the more radical members
                    of his party. He had been, on the whole, free from charges of abolitionism and had sometimes been
                    praised for his courage in resisting the "nigger lovers." Henceforth, however, he
                    was accused of encouraging Negro equality, servile insurrection, and even amalgamation of the races.
            In his message to Congress in December, 1862, Lincoln sought to answer some of the criticism of his
                    emancipation program. He reiterated his desire for a program of colonization but also insisted that
                    most of the alarm expressed by his detractors over the dangers from a free Negro population 
                  
                     39
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily State Sentinel, October 16, 21, 1862.
                  
                     40
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, October 17, 1862.
               
                     within the borders of the 
                        United States
                     was "largely-imaginary, if not sometimes malicious." He sought to
                    show that emancipation would not decrease the need for free white labor and that free Negroes would
                    have less reason to go north than slaves who fled to gain freedom. "And in any
                    event," he asked, "can not the North decide for itself whether to receive
                        them?"41 This last appeared almost an invitation to the northern
                    states to pass exclusion laws.
            In the light of later developments Lincoln's position was certainly conservative, but the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel condemned his "fanaticism" and "the sickly
                    sentimentality which induces Mr. Lincoln to refer to the negro as a 'free American of
                    African descent… .' It will be noticed that Mr. Lincoln expends his whole
                    sympathy and thought and care upon the negro. The condition of the white Americans … have
                        [sic] no consideration with our very philanthropic President."42
            
            The final proclamation of emancipation on January 1, 1863, brought forth some of the most scathing
                    comments in which the Sentinel had as yet indulged. It repeatedly declared that it
                    was an invitation to servile war—"the butchery of white men not in arms, of
                    helpless white women and children by a race of semi-barbarians." Denunciation of the
                    President's policy was also expressed in letters which purported to be from soldiers in the
                    field. A letter from the Army of the Potomac declared that the army was not ready to fight for Negro
                    freedom and equality. "We want this war ended… . We don't want the
                    North flooded with free niggers. We want Indiana exclusively for intelligent, free, white
                        men."43
            
            Bitter opposition to the Lincoln administration, especially emancipation measures, was manifested by
                    the Democratic majority in the general assembly which convened in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in January, 1863. Resolution after resolution condemning the "hellish scheme
                    of emancipation" was introduced. The senate committee on federal relations incorporated the
                    substance of most of these into a report which was adopted by a vote of 26 to 17.44 The following excerpts illustrate 
                  
                     41 Richardson, Messages and Papers of the
                            Presidents, VI, 136-142.
                  
                     42
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily State Sentinel, December 5, 1862.
                  
                     43
                            Ibid., January 1, 3, 22, March 4, 5, 1863.
                  
                     44 The main story of the session is outside the scope of this article.
                            It should be noted that it was marked by an intense partisanship heretofore
               
                     the nature of the protest: "The doctrine advocated by
                    the enemies of constitutional liberty that the existence of war invests Congress, or the President,
                    with despotic powers … is to be utterly condemned… .
            "We regard the proclamation of President Lincoln to abolish slavery in the Southern States
                    as unconstitutional, unwise, and calculated to do the cause of the Union incalculable injury, by
                    dividing its friends and uniting its enemies… .
            "The interest of the white race, as well as the black, demands that the condition and
                    locality of the latter in the Southern States should not be interfered with by the National
                    Government… .
            "We are uncompromisingly opposed to all schemes the tendency of which is calculated to
                    overrun the State of Indiana with a worthless and degraded negro population… .
            "No Union can be maintained in this country until fanaticism on the negro question, North
                    and South, is eradicated, and the sovereignty of the States over their domestic institutions is
                    again acknowledged… . The people of the North must banish the heresy of Abolitionism, or
                    else yield up the blessings of the Union… . A war for Abolitionism is a war against the
                    Union; a war for the Union is a war against Abolitionism."45
            
            While thus excoriating Lincoln and abolitionism the framers of the resolutions declared themselves
                    "yet more hostile to the Southern rebellion," and condemned the rebels as
                    "traitors."
            There was also an unsuccessful attempt on the part of the Democrats in the Senate to pass a much more
                    drastic Negro exclusion law than the one already on the statute books.46
            
            Meanwhile, Republicans, repudiated at the polls, were 
                  unequaled even in Indiana. The Republican members of the lower house finally resorted to
                            the expedient of running away so as to break a quorum and thus prevent the enactment of
                            certain measures sponsored by the Democratic majority. As a result no appropriation bill
                            could be passed and the state faced a period of two years without funds—until
                            Governor Morton resorted to various extra-legal devices to raise the necessary money.
                            Stampp, Indiana Politics during the Civil War, 176-179. Journal of the Senate of the State of Indiana, 1863, p. 713.
                  
                     45
                            Journal of the Senate of the State of Indiana, 1863, pp. 696-700.
                  
                     46 Senate Bill Number 140, Indiana Original Senate Bills, 1863 Session
                            (Nos. 140-181), MS copy, Archives Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana.
               
                     holding Union meetings throughout the state during the early
                    part of 1863 in an effort to whip up popular support for the administration policies and for a
                    vigorous prosecution of the war. These meetings usually adopted resolutions supporting the
                    Emancipation Proclamation as a necessary war measure and urging the use of the emancipated slaves as
                    laborers or regular soldiers in defeating rebellion. At a meeting in 
                        Indianapolis
                     where he was the principal speaker Andrew Johnson was hailed with enthusiasm. While
                    admitting that he had owned ten slaves Johnson supported emancipation as a military measure.
                    "If, as the car of State moves along, the negroes get in the way let them be crushed. If
                    they keep out of the way let them remain where they are. I am for the Government and all measures
                    necessary to maintain it. Is not this Government … worth more than the institution of
                        slavery?"47
            
            As the months passed even the more conservative Republicans became convinced of the necessity of
                    complete abolition as a condition of a lasting peace. They also gave up, however reluctantly, their
                    insistence upon colonization as an accompaniment of emancipation. A more humanitarian attitude
                    toward the Negro also was apparent in their utterances. The change on the part of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal was significant. It hailed with joy the steps being taken in the loyal
                    slave states for complete emancipation. "The good time is
                    coming… . Slavery is dying, and the day of its death will be the day of the
                    world's greatest jubilee." A few days later it declared: "To believe that
                    a nation condemning to perpetual slavery four millions of human beings, … can continue to
                    enjoy uninterrupted peace and unabated prosperity, is to deny that a just God rules in the affairs
                    of men."48 In a notable editorial colonization, heretofore the pet
                    scheme of conservatives, was declared to be impracticable, unwise, and a denial of the
                    constitutional rights of the Negro race.
            "If it was possible to colonize a whole race, the wisdom of any people who would at an
                    enormous expense carry off 
                  
                     47
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, February 27, 1863. General Samuel F. Carey of 
                                Ohio
                            , speaking at the same meeting, declared: "He cared not what
                            instruments were used to kill off rebels. He would take mules and put upon their feet steel
                            heels and toes and train them to kick rebels to death. He would arm negroes for the same
                            reasons."
                  
                     48
                            Ibid., Novmber 2, 24, 1863.
               
                     4,000,000 of valuable laborers would be without a parallel in
                    the history of civilized nations. Labor is the wealth of a nation. It has been and should be our
                    policy to invite emigration to this country rather than to deport our laborers. Besides, what right
                    have we to carry off these men unless they go voluntarily? Under the Constitution their right to
                    life, and liberty, and property, are [sic] as sacred as those of any other class
                    of citizens. … There is no legal power to banish or colonize them under
                    the Constitution… .
            "Voluntary colonization, so far as it is conducted with wisdom, must meet with approval and
                    encouragement. Involuntary deportation of the African is not only impracticable, but most injurious
                    to us and cruel to them. We must look elsewhere than to colonization for the solution of the
                    question as to the fate of the African in this country."49
            
            Toward the end of 1862 the President had been authorized to direct the enrollment of colored troops
                    into the Union army—a step characterized by Senator Hendricks as "gross insult
                    to every man in whose veins flows the blood of our race."50 The
                    question of employment and treatment of such troops continued to be a matter of bitter political
                    controversy until the end of war. Democrats never ceased to insist that colored soldiers were
                    cowardly and worthless and a source of demoralization to white troops. The Republican press, on the
                    other hand, carried story after story of their heroism.
            Most colored soldiers were recruited in the South, and at first there was no provision for their
                    enrollment under the flag of Indiana. However, in December, 1863, when Indiana was having difficulty
                    filling its quota without a resort to the draft, this policy was changed. The following appeal was
                    issued:
            
                    TO THE COLORED MEN OF INDIANA
                
            "The state of Indiana calls upon you to bear a part in the glorious work of putting down the
                    slaveholders' rebellion and saving the Union… . Will you not march to the rescue
                    of your suffering brethern, and give to them in fact the freedom which is now declared to be their
                    right? … It has been said of you that you do not possess the manly qualities that fit a
                    people to enjoy and preserve their liberty.," 
                  
                     49
                            Ibid., December 7, 1863 (italics inserted).
                  
                     50
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily State Sentinel, February 9, 1863.
               
                     You can now show your detractors and the world the falsehood of
                    the assertion, and place yourself in such a position that you may ask and obtain from a grateful
                    people a full recognition of your worth and rights as men."51
            
            The Democrats injected the question of the use of Negro troops into the campaign of 1864. An address
                    of the Democratic members of the Thirty-eighth Congress, after denouncing the use of such troops,
                    added: "It ought to be manifest to every reasonable man that negroes in service should be
                    paid less than white troops… . The market value of their labor is known to be less than
                    that of citizens, and it is equally clear that their services are much less valuable in the
                    army." The Republicans insisted on equal pay and pointed out with relish that individual
                    Democrats were eager to avail themselves of colored men as substitutes in order to escape military
                        service.52
            
            Lincoln had promised that Negroes who enlisted would be treated as prisoners of war if they were
                    captured. The national platform of the Union party also declared: "The government owes to
                    all men employed in its armies, without regard to distinction of color, the full protection of the
                    laws of war, and any violation of these laws … should be made the subject of full and
                    prompt redress."53
            
            However, the Confederates refused to treat captured Negroes as prisoners of war and refused to
                    exchange them. Since the Lincoln administration was adamant on this subject, the exchange of
                    prisoners was delayed. This caused further denunciation of the President by the Democratic press.
                    Headlines in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel screamed: WHY FEDERAL PRISONERS SUFFER AND
                        DIE—ABRAHAM LINCOLN RESPONSIBLE. The suffering of the white prisoners at 
                        Andersonville
                     was charged to Lincoln's love for the Negro since his stand made exchange
                    impossible."
            
               
                  51
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Journal, December 12, 1863. On January 21, 1865, the same paper carried
                        the following advertisement: "COLORED MEN, ATTENTION: $375 EACH will be paid
                        for twenty good men to go as Volunteers, to be credited to the city of 
                            Indianapolis
                        ."
               
                  52
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily State Sentinel, July 26, 1864; Centreville Indiana True
                            Republican, April 14, May 12, 19, 1864; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Journal, July 13, 27, 1864. See also speech of John P. Usher ibid., September 16, 1864.
               
                  53
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Journal, June 10, 1864.
               
                  54
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily State Sentinel, September 23, 1864. "Because the rebels refused
                        to give up one or two hundred negro soldiers [Lincoln] has prolonged the captivity of fifty
                        thousand of our brave boys… .
            
            
            Opposition to the Lincoln administration reached its height in the fall elections of 1862 and the
                    first part of 1863. Thereafter the inexorable, though slow, force of Union victories gradually
                    strengthened the party in power and carried it to victory in 1864. But the critics were not
                    silenced. In fact many of them became more shrill. They realized that the end of the war would mean
                    more than the mere suppression of rebellion. The Union which would be restored would be a different
                    Union from the one of 1860, but they were powerless to halt the changes. In their desperation and
                    frustration they made wilder and wilder charges. In Indiana, moreover, the position of the Democrats
                    was made more difficult by the fact that they were accused of disloyalty. Certain members of the
                    party were, in fact, brought to trial before military tribunals in the fall of 1864 and convicted of
                    treason. It is not within the scope of this article to assess the Copperhead menace in Indiana nor
                    to determine the guilt or innocence of those charged with disloyalty. It is sufficient here to note
                    that the charges of Copperheadism and the treason trials furnished political capital for the
                    Republican Union party.55 The Democrats sought to draw attention from these
                    embarrassments by charges against the administration which sometimes bordered on the hysterical. The
                    same appeals to race prejudice which had been used in 1860 and 1862 were revived in 1864.
            There was much talk of the menace of "Negro equality" and especially of
                    "amalgamation." It was reported that young women at Democratic rallies carried
                    banners with inscriptions beseeching: 
                        Oh, Fathers Oh, Brothers Save us from Negro Equality and Despotism!56
                  
                    
            
            The Democratic papers carried stories of elopements of white daughters with Negro servants and of
                    favors shown by white women to Negro soldiers. It was charged that all radical Republicans were
                    advocates of racial amalgamation, 
                  His attempt to convert the war for the Union into a negro crusade is the cause for this
                            calamity." Ibid., October 12, 1864.
                  
                     55 Kenneth M. Stampp, "The Milligan Case and the Election of
                            1864 in Indiana," 
                        Mississippi Valley Historical
                                Review (
                        Cedar Rapids, Iowa
                     , 1914-), XXXI (1944-1945), 41-58.
                  
                     56
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, September 19, 1864, September 5, 1863.
               
                     and it was insisted that anyone who opposed the
                    administration's Negro policy was accused of being a Copperhead.
            
                    If a body don't believe That the nigger's white, Must a body just for that Be
                        put in front to fight?
                    If a lady does not choose To accept "Sambo's" attentions, Must she,
                        for that, be accused Of treasonable intentions?57
               
                
            Even the President was accused of advocating miscegenation. One newspaper declared that the
                    "beastly doctrine of the intermarriage of black men with white women" was now
                    "openly and publicly avowed and indorsed and encouraged by the President of the 
                        United States
                    ."58
            
            The following parody on a catechism illustrates the nature of the attacks made on Lincoln and shows
                    how widely the judgment of some of Lincoln's contemporaries differed from that of the
                    present day: 
                        A CAPITAL HIT—THE LINCOLN CATHECISM— QUESTIONS AND
                            ANSWERS
                        What is the Constitution?
                        A compact with hell—now obsolete.
                        By whom has the Constitution been made obsolete?
                        By Abraham Africanus the First.
                        To what end?
                        That his days may be long in office, and that he may make himself and his people the equal of
                            the negroes.
                        What is a President?
                        A general agent for negroes.
                        What is Congress?
                        A body organized for the purpose of taxing the people to buy negroes, and to make laws to
                            protect the President from being punished for his crimes.
                        What is the army?
                        A Provost Guard, to arrest white men and set negroes free.
                        What is the meaning of the President's oath, that he "will to the best of
                            his ability, preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the 
                                United States
                            ?"
                        That he will do all in his power to subvert and destroy it.
                        Have the Loyal Leaguers a prayer?
                        They have.
                        Repeat it.
                        
                     
                        57
                                
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                                Daily State Sentinel, May 6, 1864.
                     
                        58
                                Ibid., March 30, 1864.
                  
                        
                        Father Abram, who art in 
                                Washington
                            , of glorious memory—since the date of the proclamation to free the
                            negroes. Thy kingdom come, and overthrow the republic; thy will be done, and the laws
                            perish. Give us this day our daily supply of greenbacks. Forgive us our plunders, but
                            destroy the Copperheads. Lead us into fat pastures, but deliver us from the eye of the
                            detectives; and make us the equal of the negro, for such shall be our kingdom and the glory
                            of the administration.59
                  
                    
            
            Democratic county and district conventions adopted resolutions condemning emancipation and accusing
                    the President of deliberately prolonging the war in order to free the black race. There were also
                    the usual attempts to play upon the white laborer's fear of competition with the Negro. The
                    Democratic state platform called for a more stringent Negro exclusion law, and during the campaign
                    Governor Morton was accused of subverting the state constitution and laws by conniving at the
                    illegal entry of Negroes into the state.60
            
            While the Republican Union party men insisted that the Democrats were using the race issue to detract
                    attention from other questions they also felt compelled to expend considerable campaign oratory and
                    editorial writing in refuting their opponents' charges. They sought especially to show that
                    the Republican party was the friend of the white working man. Ex-Governor and ex-Senator Joseph
                    Wright in a speech in 
                        Indianapolis
                     admitted that "the appeals to the prejudices and fears of the working classes
                    in the North in regard to the results of the emancipation of the slaves in the South," had
                    done more, in his opinion, "to divide the sentiment of our people and weaken them in their
                    support of the Government than almost any other one thing." He hastened to assure the
                    workingmen that their fears were groundless. There was no danger of a great migration of Negroes
                    since their labor would be needed in the South. Moreover, as the condition of the Negro population
                    improved under a system of wage labor, there would be a better market for goods produced by white
                        workers.61
            
            The political contest was begun in an atmosphere unfavorable to the cause of the Union party. War
                    weariness and discouragement over military prospects appeared to be playing into the hands of the
                    Democrats. The appeal which 
                  
                     59
                            Ibid., April 1, 1864.
                  
                     60
                            Ibid., August 18, 1864; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, July 13, 1864.
                  
                     61
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, September 6, 1864. In a speech from the same rostrum ten
                            days later John P. Usher, Hoosier member of Lincoln's Cabinet, sought to assure the
                            white laboring men that their fears of competition from Negro workers were groundless. Ibid., September 16, 1864.
               
                     the latter sought to make is well summarized in the caption
                    below, which appeared daily in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel.
               62
            
            The Argument in a Nut Shell
            Look at this Picture Elect LINCOLN and the BLACK REPUBLICAN TICKET You will
                    bring on Negro Equality, more Debt, Harder Times, another
                    DRAFT! Universal Anarchy and Ultimate RUIN!
            Then on This Elect McCLELLAN and the and the whole DEMOCRATIC TICKET You
                    will defeat Negro Equality, restore Prosperity, re-establish
                    the UNION! In an Honorable, Permanent, Happy PEACE!
            However, the hopes of the Democracy were dimmed by two developments in the closing weeks of the
                    campaign. The first of these was a marked improvement in the military situation, particularly as the
                    result of the fall of 
                        Atlanta
                     to Sherman and Sheridan's victories in the Shenandoah. The second was the
                    trial and conviction of certain Democrats before military tribunals. The trials coincided nicely
                    with the height of the political campaign and were used by the Republicans to advantage. The result
                    was a sweeping victory for the Union ticket at both the state and federal levels.
            The end of the long war was in sight. The military victory of the Union armies and the political
                    victory of the Republicans meant the end of slavery and a new era in the realm of race relations.
                    Democrats recognized that slavery was doomed and that their efforts to resist the new order were in
                    vain. They, therefore, offered only mild resistance to the adoption of the Thirteenth Amendment. But
                    they also recognized that the question of the status of the free Negro remained to be settled. Most
                    of them were not happy over the prospects for the future. An editorial in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel entitled "Negro Agitation Not Ended" gloomily predicted
                    that the radicals would continue in their crusade to elevate the Negro. "The next step is
                    the practical recognition of the doctrine of 'the equality of all men before the
                    law,' which means … negro suffrage, nothing less, something more when this shall
                    have been secured."63
            
            
               
                  62
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily State Sentinel, October 3, 1864, and thereafter until election.
               
                  63
                        Ibid., December 9, 1864.
            
         
         
         
            Indiana's War History
            
               Indiana at War: Civilian Directory, Volume IV in the series Indiana in
                        World War II, will be published by the Indiana War History Commission in June. Volume II in
                    the series, Letters from Fighting Hoosiers, and the Gold Star Honor Rolls for
                    several Indiana counties, all parts of Volume I, have already been published. Volume III,
                    "The Hoosier Training Ground," a history of Army and Navy training centers and
                    military installations within the state during the war years, is now being prepared.
            
               Indiana at War is a book of 1330 pages which makes an effort to describe every
                    civilian governmental agency and volunteer organization which contributed in any way to the war
                    effort within the state and to list by name, position, and dates of service as many of the civilians
                    who participated in this effort as the preserved records permit. More than 30,000 Hoosiers and some
                    300 of the organizations in which they served are listed. The bulk of the book is devoted to the
                    civilian defense organizations, the price control and rationing boards, the selective service
                    system, and the war bond sales organization, each of which is carried to the level of the local
                    community with complete rosters of civilian personnel. The book also treats, as fully as possible,
                    all federal, state, and local governmental agencies and officials who were involved in the war
                    effort, volunteer service agencies such as USO and Red Cross, educational institutions which trained
                    military personnel and war workers, and the wartime contributions of patriotic societies, youth
                    organizations, professional associations, business groups, labor unions, agricultural interests, and
                    religious, social, and civic organizations. For sixty-six of these agencies and groups, the
                    organizational analysis and personnel listing is carried to the city or county level. The book
                    therefore not only pictures the war effort of the state as a whole, but contains the material for a
                    fairly complete survey of the wartime activities of every Hoosier community.
            The Directory is divided into twelve parts, with an introduction by Governor
                    Schricker, nineteen maps and charts, and three indices. A dozen people were engaged at one time or
                    another during a period of six years in the gigantic task of collecting, classifying, and compiling
                    data, and assembling,  writing, and checking the final copy. The
                    search for material extended into every county of Indiana and as far abroad as
                            
                  St. Louis, Chicago, Cleveland
                and 
                        Washington
                    . In spite of the bulk of the book, less than half the collected information was
                    included within its pages. The remainder is retained in the files of the War History Commission.
            Although historians and genealogists have been interested since the beginning of American history in
                    preserving careful records of individual participation in the armed forces during time of war, this
                    is the first volume which has made an effort to render a similar service for civilian participation.
                    The book would therefore be valuable for its unique character alone. It has other virtues, however.
                    Although the narrative portions of the book are necessarily limited in scope, they provide the
                    essential facts in the history of the origin, development, and wartime contributions of each of the
                    agencies and organizations listed. Taken together, these brief descriptions provide an over-all
                    blueprint for the pattern of civilian wartime mobilization which could be drawn in no other way. It
                    is not suggested that this blueprint could be applied without modification to any future crisis, but
                    it is certainly evident that it will serve as a valuable reference source for civilian defense
                    workers and state planners henceforward. The size of the book is in itself an impressive reminder of
                    the innumerable and complex links by which a civilian population is connected with a total war.
            So important is this work regarded by the state government that the bulk of the first printing is to
                    be distributed to libraries, governmental offices, and civilian defense councils. A limited number
                    of copies will be available for purchase from the 
                        Bloomington
                     office of the War History Commission at ten dollars a copy.
         
         
         
            Documents
            Civil War Letters of David Mitchell Hudson
            Contributed by Roy D. Hudson∗
            David Mitchell Hudson, a sergeant in Company K of the 120th Indiana Volunteers,1
                    was born in 
                        Jennings County
                    , Indiana, January 15, 1837. In 1856 he enrolled in the preparatory school of North
                    Western Christian University.2 For his more advanced training, however, he chose
                    Moores Hill College.3 Upon the completion of his formal education, he taught
                    school. Apparently the vocation of his choice did not occupy all of his time, and he became a tiller
                    of the soil as well as a worker in his father's tanyard. Moreover, this busy schedule
                    probably did not interfere with his social life, for on February 20, 1862, he married Sarah Margaret
                        Hamacher.4 To this union two children were born. Willey Victor, the first
                    son, was born on December 7, 1862. The second son, David Edwin, arrived on July 9, 1864, six months
                    after the father had entered the service of his country.
            Although the date of muster was given as January 13, 1864,5 the first letter in
                    the collection bore the date of February 3. The messages from David to Sarah covered the period from
                    February 3 to August 26, 1864. Much of the material has been deleted because of its personal nature.
            Hudson was stationed at Camp Stansifer, 
                        Columbus
                    , Indiana, until March 5, when his company was transferred to Camp Carrington, 
                        Indianapolis
                    . He was impressed with the 
                  
                     ∗ Roy D. Hudson, a resident of Bay Village, 
                                Ohio
                            , is a grandson of David Mitchell Hudson.
                  
                     1
                            Report of the Adjutant General of the State of Indiana (8 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1865-1869), VII (1867), 146.
                  
                     2 It was incorporated under that name on January 15, 1850. On February
                            28, 1877, it began to operate as 
                                Butler
                             University. Laws of Indiana, Local, 1849-1850, pp. 524-528;
                            Jacob P. Dunn, 
                                
                                    Greater Indianapolis
                                
                             (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1910), I, 131, 436.
                  
                     3 The college was founded at Moores Hill, Indiana, in 1854. Due to the
                            fact that the building in which the classes were to be held was not completed until December
                            1, 1856, the school did not open officially until that date. In 1919 the institution was
                            moved to 
                                Evansville
                            , Indiana, and the name changed to 
                                Evansville
                             College. Lews of Indiana, 1919, pp. 24-25; Archibald Shaw
                            (ed.), History of 
                                    Dearborn County
                                , Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1915), 472-481.
                  
                     4 Sarah was born near 
                                Lexington
                            , Scott County, Indiana, on July 3, 1846, the daughter of John and Nancy Noakes
                            Hamacher.
                  
                     5
                            Report of the Adjutant General of the State of Indiana, VII, 146.
               
                     size of this camp and wrote on March 8, "here we can
                    see 3,000 men drawn up in line for battle, which I tell you looks considerably military. Our camp
                    looks just like a town." About the twentieth of March his group moved to Taylor's
                    Barracks and a few days later to Park Barracks near 
                        Louisville
                    . The stay at the latter camp was also of short duration since on March 27 began the
                    journey to 
                        Nashville
                    . On April 5, the company of which he was a member left the latter city for more
                    southern points in 
                        Tennessee
                     and also entered 
                        Alabama
                     and 
                        Georgia
                    , arriving in 
                        Chattanooga
                     on April 20. After spending a day here, he went to 
                  Charleston, Tennessee
               , but
                    in May returned to 
                        Chattanooga
                    . He was in the vicinity of 
                        Chattanooga
                     until August 28, 1864, when he died, having been a victim of scurvy.
            In his letters he gave interesting descriptions of the country through which he passed and the people
                    he saw. He had a great dislike for the army doctors and gave vent to his feelings when he wrote to
                    Sarah.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              Camp Carrington
                           
                                    March 13" 1864.
                        We have had our election. I will give you the names of our officers, Capt. Jas.
                                    Tobias, 1st Lieut Randall, 2nd Lieut H. D. Wilson, Orderly Sergt. P. Wilson, 2
                                    Sergt. D M Hudson.
                        You know I was thinking of running for Orderly, but Jimmy run for that and I run for
                                    the next place. Jimmy was beat, I was elected. I will not have to do any duty, nor
                                    stand guard. The place suits me very well. If there is any promotions I will stand a
                                    good chance. I did not like the way Jimmy treated me, but I pity him now since he
                                    has got beat. Hen Fish, I. Hall and A. Calhoun run against me and I got more votes
                                    than all the rest together. If Jimmy had not wanted to run for Orderly, I could have
                                    got the place easy enough.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp Carrington
                           
                                    March 18" 1864
                                
                        Well Sarah, I hope you are all as well as I am, for I feel very well. Though there is
                                    several of our boys sick. Some have the Measles and some have the mumps. I am to be
                                    vaccinated to day for the Smallpox, as there has been a few cases around here. But
                                    none bad. I suppose Sarah you will be glad to hear, where and when we are going.
                                    Well I cannot tell you. It is generally admitted now, that we will go to 
                                        Nashville
                                     or somewhere thereabouts to do Garrison duty, and that we will go in
                                    less than a week though we are not sure of this. Still there is some talk that we
                                    will leave next Saturday or Sunday….
                        I will give you a list of our officers.
                        
                        Capt. Jas Tobias
                        
                           1 Lieut W. H. Randall
                           2 Lieut H. D. Wilson
                           1" Sergeant, W. P. Wilson
                           2 Sergeant, DM Hudson
                           3 Sergeant, Rob. S. Dixon
                           4 Sergeant, John Shambach
                           5 Sergeant, Alex. Shepherd
                        
                        
                           1" Corporal-Norman Simmons
                           2 Corporal-Norman Simmons Will Hoard
                           3 Corporal-Norman Simmons Mart. Robbins
                           4 Corporal-Norman Simmons F. Day
                           5 Corporal-Norman Simmons W. Spears
                           6 I have forgotten the
                           7 rest, but it is not particular
                           8 anyhow
                        
                        Jimmy is now acting as Company clerk,—an easy place. Cap Tobias offered me
                                    4 dollars a month extra if I would take that place, but I did not like to give up
                                    the place I had. For you see Sarah I have an easy time and 2 promotions will go to a
                                    Lieutenancy. And then I would rather not always be pinned to the officers.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Park Barracks
                           
                                    March 25" 64.
                                
                        We left Taylor's Barracks the other day and moved out here 1½
                                    miles further from 
                                        Louisville
                                    , where we have been since, though we are expecting to leave here for 
                                        Nashville
                                     in a few days, perhaps tomorrow. We are now trying soldiering the right
                                    way. We are in Cloth tents. Six in a tent. I like them better than I do the kind we
                                    had at 
                                        Columbus
                                     & 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    . We are not troubled by such noise and we can pick our own company.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Louisville
                                 
                              
                           
                                    March 27" 64
                                    Sunday 1 P. M.
                                
                        While sitting in camp this morning wishing I was at home with you about 20 wagons
                                    came into camp and we were ordered to cook 2 days rations and shove out for 
                                        Nashville
                                    .
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              In Camp near 
                                    Nashville
                                    Tenn.
                                 
                              
                           
                                    March 28" 64.
                                
                        We left 
                                        Louisville
                                     Sunday evening at 6 O'C. at [sic] got here
                                    yesterday at the same time—24 hours on the road. We are now with our
                                    whole brigade—the 120, 124, 128 & 130 Ind Vols. The 22"
                                    is here.
                        I was sadly disappointed in the land in 
                                        Kentucky
                                     so far as we saw it is very poor. But in this state it is a great deal
                                    better. There are no towns at all worth notice on the whole route except Bowling 
                                        Green Ky.
                                     and Franklin Tenn—we passed through Bowling Green at 8
                                    O'clock yesterday morning.
                        I rode 85 miles on top of the Cars, and I dont think I saw 85 acres of wheat on the
                                    whole rout. Here in 
                                        Tennessee
                                     the fences are nearly all destroyed. Gardening is going
                                    on—and peach trees are now in full bloom. I was on top of the cars when
                                    the train went through 2 tunnels a half mile through. And I tell you it looks
                                    dangerous to set on top of a train, and see it bulging headlong in to a little hole
                                    in the ground—that looks more like the mouth of a cave than any thing
                                    else. The train run 60 feet under ground.
                        When we got to camp it was pouring down rain like fury, and we had to go to bed wet
                                    on the wet ground. Though we had plenty  of
                                    blankets and slept very well at last—as we slept none the night before on
                                    the train….
                        We are now just 225 miles from home and talk of starting to Chatanooga a foot in a
                                    few days.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Near 
                                    Nashville
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Tuesday evening March 29" 64.
                                
                        I have just been through Fort negley—the largest fort in this part of the
                                    country. It covers about 4 acres and is right on top of the highest hill round about
                                    here. From it you can see all of 
                                        Nashville
                                     and the country for miles around. There is about 12 or 15 Canon in it
                                    and several hundred loopholes for rifles. From it you can see Soldiers tents all
                                    around the city, about 50,000 Soldiers are about here in a few miles of 
                                        Nashville
                                    .
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Near 
                                    Nashville
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Wednesday 30" March 64
                                
                        The weather is too cold to enjoy ourselves. It rained or snowed all yesterday evening
                                    and last night. Something very uncommon away down here in Dixie. And our wood is
                                    scarce too—but we will take care of ourselves. We tore down a small brick
                                    house yesterday to get the joists for wood—but they have hauled some
                                    since.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Still near 
                                    Nashville
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Apr 2" 5 P.M.
                                
                        You know our regiment left 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     on Sunday! It left 
                                        Louisville
                                     on Sunday, and I guess we will leave here tomorrow (Sunday). We stay
                                    just a week at a place. This may all be a mistake but it is generally believed that
                                    we will leave soon for 
                                        Knoxville
                                        Tennessee
                                    . It would be funny to you… to see our regiment when marching
                                    orders is given—How the hill side is covered with our tents, but in an
                                    hour after the orders are rec'd the tents are all gone, and there is
                                    nothing left to show where we have been but some old dirty clothes and our temporary
                                    cooking furnaces.
                        The tents, our beds, bed furniture, and all our personal property is on our backs and
                                    we are off South. There is to be but 2 wagons with our regiment (and one ambulance).
                                    We must carry every thing but our cooking utensils. I tell you it makes a good
                                    load….
                        But the hard marching is what I dont like—But our general told us he would
                                    be easy on us. He said, he would not make us march more than 8 or 10 miles a day at
                                    first until we got used to it….
                        I was down in town yesterday and saw the turn bridge over the Cumberland
                                        river—It is 500 feet across and turns out of the way to
                                    let boats pass up or down and then it is turned back to let the trains run across
                                    the river. It is the greatest structure I ever saw.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              10 miles from 
                                    Nashville
                                 
                              
                           
                                    April 5" 1864.
                                
                        We left 
                                        Nashville
                                     this morning at 9 O'clock and are now in camp about 10 miles
                                    from 
                                        Nashville
                                     on our way to Murfresboro, 
                                        Tenn.
                                    
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Murfresboro 
                                    Tenn.
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Apr 8" 1864.
                                
                        We got here to Murfresboro yesterday 3 P.M. I have seen the famous battle ground
                                    where the tops of the trees were cut off with cannon balls. Yesterday morning we
                                    left Luverne or rather where Luverne use[d] to be—but there is no sign of
                                    a town there now but old chimneys.
                        We have passed through a country covered with rocks where Cedars are more plenty than
                                    beach trees are in Indiana. We marched all the way from 
                                        Nashville
                                     to this place. And are going from here to KN oxville 
                                        Tenn.
                                    
                        
                        … Marching 15 miles a day with a Soldier's load is not pleasant
                                    work. Pick up our tents in the morning with all our bed cloths our Knapsacks and
                                    rations enough to last for 4 days, and then march all day in the sun and then all on
                                    a pike at that it is not funny. But I am in for it, and will have to stand it the
                                    best I can. A great many of our regiment give out to day….
                        I never thought of seeing such fortifications as there is here at this place, rifle
                                    pits all around the town, and embankments, 10 to 15 feet high—it would be
                                    impossible for any force to take it.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              In a little hollow between several
                              big hills 8 miles from Tullahoma
                        
                                    Tenn.
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Sunday night, Apr 10" 1864.
                                
                        This is a curious Country. Nothing but hills & hollows. We have been
                                    imitating the King of 
                                        France
                                     when as the Poem says—The King of 
                                        France
                                     with 40,000 men Marched up a hill, & then marched down again,
                                    for we have been doing nothing else all day, except for a little while this morning
                                    while we passed 
                                        Shelbyville
                                     where we saw a little level country.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Tullahoma
                        
                                    Tenn.
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Apr 12" 64
                                
                        If the South is all like this that I have seen it isn't worth fighting for.
                                    We are here with the 27" I had a long talk with Volna yesterday evening. I
                                    went to the camp of the 27" and they told me Vol was out on picket and I
                                    followed the rail road out and found him, and then brought him to town and to our
                                    camp for the night. And such a town, it would take about 4 or 6 like it to make one
                                    like your native Crothersville. Volna and I bought 6 apples a little bigger than
                                    marbles for 25 cts. I cant write you much of a letter this time—as the
                                    27" boys are so thick they wont give me time. [In margin] Hoveys Division.
                        We will leave soon for Chatanooga & from there to 
                                        Knoxville
                                    . Our Generals orderly had a hole shot through his Cap to day while
                                    riding through the woods by himself. It was done by Gurrillas that will rob every
                                    lone soldier they find. We dont dare go much alone without enough to defend
                                    ourselves.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              In the mountains
                              Near 
                                    Anderson
                                    Tenn.
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Apr 15" 1864.
                                
                        I will give you a history of my travels since I wrote to you last.  The last I sent you was from Tullahoma where I stayed
                                    all night with Volna. We left there day before yesterday and marched to Decherd
                                    Station. Yesterday we was all day in marching over the mountains, a distance of 10
                                    or 12 miles, where rocks the size of a small house is no curiosity at all. We will
                                    be in 
                                        Alabama
                                     by noon to day.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Near Stephenson Alabama
                           
                                    April 16" 1864
                                
                        I expect you think strange of our being sent away down here so far in Dixie. And it
                                    does look a little strange but you see this is the only way we can go to 
                                        Knoxville
                                     and get supplies as we go. We have to follow the rail road to have
                                    supplies shipped to us as we go along. We will go from Stephenson (where we will be
                                    in 2 or 3 hours to 
                                        Chatanooga
                                        Tennessee
                                     and then follow the line of the rail road to 
                                        Knoxville
                                     or at least that is the talk, and it must be true, for those that give
                                    out or get sick are shipped through there on the cars.
                        We might perhaps be placed on Garrison duty at 
                                        Chatanooga
                                     but I don't think that is the intention of the officers. But
                                    it is hard to say much about it….
                        I've not seen a pretty woman in 
                                        Tennessee
                                    . The people here say they are not for the Union. Down here in 
                                        Alabama
                                     the children say their parents are in the Southern army.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              In Lookout Mountain Valley
                              Near 
                                    Chatanooga
                                    Tenn.
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Apr 19" 1864.
                                
                        The last letter I sent you was from 
                                        Bridgeport
                                        Alabama
                                    . On the 18" we marched out of 
                                        Alabama
                                    , through the corner of 
                                        Georgia
                                    , and into 
                                        Tennessee
                                    . And to day we reached this place, the 15" day of our march
                                    from 
                                        Nashville
                                    ….
                        We are in camp at the foot of Lookout Mountain—the place where the famous
                                    battle was fought last November. We got here about 3 o'clock P. M. and
                                    after resting an hour I started to climb to the top of the Mountain a distance of
                                    about 2 miles—and so steep a part of the way that we had to climb ladders
                                    to get to the top, but after just one hour I reached the top where the rebels once
                                    made a stand.
                        From the top of the Mountain they say we can see 6 States, but the whole view is one
                                    range of mountains after another as far as the eye can see. So that the more I see
                                    of the South the less I like it, and the more I think of old Indiana, my native
                                    state.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Charleston
                                    Tenn.
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Sunday Apr 24" 64
                                
                        Since I wrot you my last from 
                                        Chattanooga
                                     we have marched 45 miles through the prettiest country I have seen
                                    since I left Hoosier-dom. I like the country fine. We have stopped here for awhile
                                    and they say we will be scattered along the rail road here on Guard duty. I hope so.
                                    If we are thus scattered along the road we will have a tolerable easy time and may
                                    be get to stay here all Summer. I know you would like that.
                        
                        
                        There is a division of old Soldiers here and we will take their place and they will
                                    go to the front. We have been marching for 75 miles within 5 to 20 miles of the
                                    rebel lines but still there is not much danger because there is a large Union force
                                    between us and the rebel army. Rebels continue to come in along the lines and give
                                    themselves up. The other day a whole company came in down below here Captain
                                    Lieutenants and all. They say the rebel Soldiers are badly discouraged….
                        The people through here are all Union and the country is a very healthy looking
                                    place—tolerable hilly with plenty of pure water. The wheat here looks
                                    well. And there will be plenty of peaches and apples. How I would like to stay here
                                    till fruit time—the old soldiers say we couldnt wish to stay in abetter
                                    place than this for the people are sensible sociable and Union, and the country is
                                    pleasant and healthy….
                        We have marched every day for 20 days. We left 
                                        Columbus
                                     with 90 men in our company. 60 marched through a foot—30
                                    were left behind, and 4 have died….
                        We are in cam[p] now on the bank of the Hiwassee river a
                                    biautiful stream where there is plenty of fish. We'll have something now
                                    besides hard tack and sow belly.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Charleston
                                    Tenn.
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Apr 27" 1864
                                
                        Marching was tolerable hard work for us, especially at first and a great many of the
                                    men give out and had to be shipped but our company nearly all made the trip a foot,
                                    and now they are glad they did for they got to see so much of the country by
                                    marching through. We marched some every day for 20 days. Some days 8 or 9 miles and
                                    some days 15 or 16 miles….
                        We heard heavy canonading day before yesterday and yesterday the report came here
                                    that our men had taken 
                                        Dalton Georgia
                                    , 39 miles from here. Rebel deserters here say if that is true the
                                    rebellion is played out here in the South West. That the Soldiers in 
                                        Georgia
                                     and 
                                        Alabama
                                     are so discouraged that they want to give the thing up and return to
                                    the Union. We have 12 rebel deserters here under guard now till we can send them
                                    down to 
                                        Chattanooga
                                    . I guess they will be sent off tomorrow. They say if Dalton is taken
                                    and Grant whips the rebs in 
                                        Virginia
                                     the war will be over.
                        They said that when they left they knew 1500 rebs that wanted to desert but they were
                                    afraid to, for if they try it and get caught they are sure to be shot. Still better.
                                    It is reported now that Dalton is taken and 7000 prisoners but you will know all
                                    about that before this reaches you. I can only hope it is true and that the war will
                                    soon be over.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Charleston
                                    Tenn.
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Apr 30" 1864.
                                
                        You know my opinion of the part of 
                                        Tenn.
                                     that we have marched through. It is such that I am not at all surprised
                                    at the specimens of 
                                        Tenn.
                                     refugees that you see passing north on the rail road. And  here even in the Valley of 
                                        East Tenn.
                                     the people are almost starved, and most of them Destitute of decent
                                    Clothing:. The refugees that come in here say that us Yankee soldiers (as they call
                                    us) know nothing at all about hardships; That the women and children through this
                                    country and 
                                        Northern Georgia
                                     are bound to leave or starve. I pity the poor fellows. Still I believe
                                    that the Government is committing a great blunder in giving them the liberties they
                                    do.
                        The other day about 30 refugees came in here & were allowed to run at will.
                                    They took quarters for the night in an old church and during the night 6 of them
                                    undertook to run the picket lines and go back to rebeldom. So you see they dont know
                                    who to trust. I'd hold them all. I'd put them at work on Public
                                    works and issue them their rations and thus they could do some good & prove
                                    their loyalty at the same time. I tell you it wont do to trust the dogs at all, and
                                    in fact I doubt the loyalty of all of them if they thought their cause would be
                                    victorious.
                        There are a few Union men through this neighborhood, but the most of them are
                                    neutral, and a great many of them draw their provisions from the Government,
                                    Especially poor women who have no husbands or whose husbands are in the rebel army,
                                    and they too are avowed rebs.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Charleston
                                    Tenn.
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Sunday, May 1st 1864.
                                
                        We have been assigned to the 23rd army corps under General Schofield. He is now
                                    shipping his whole corps to this place, and I believe they are now about all here
                                    now. They say we (this corps) has to protect Gen Thomas's left flank which
                                    is East of Ringold and there about.
                        I will now give you what I promised to some time ago, our daily travels ever since I
                                    enlisted—as follows.
                        
                           
                              Station
                              Dis
                              Arrived
                              Left
                           
                           
                              Home Ind
                              —
                              —
                              Jan 6, 64
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                                Columbus
                                             "
                              30
                              Jan 8
                              "19
                           
                           
                              Crothersville "
                              30
                              Jan 19
                              Feb 1
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                                Columbus
                                             "
                              30
                              Feb 1
                              Feb 20
                           
                           
                              Crothersville "
                              30
                              Feb 20
                              Mar 4
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                                Columbus
                                             "
                              30
                              Mar 4,
                              Mar 66
                              
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                                Indianapolis
                                             ",
                              40
                              Mar 6
                              Mar 18
                           
                           
                              Crothersville "
                              70
                              Mar 19
                              Mar 20
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                                Louisville
                                             Ky
                              40
                              Mar 20
                              Mar 27
                           
                           
                              
                                            
                                                Nashville
                                                Tenn.
                                            
                                        
                              185
                              Mar 28
                              Ap 5
                           
                           
                              Murfresboro "
                              30
                              Apr 7
                              Ap 8
                           
                           
                              
                                            
                                                Shelbyville
                                            
                                        
                              25
                              Apr 9
                              Ap 10
                           
                           
                              Tullahoma "
                              20
                              Apr 10
                              Ap 11
                           
                           
                              Decherd "
                              15
                              Apr 12
                              Ap 13
                           
                           
                              Stephenson Ala.
                              26
                              Apr 15
                              Ap 15
                           
                           
                              Bridgeport "
                              12
                              Apr 16
                              Ap 17
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              6 The letter which he wrote to Sarah that they had arrived
                                        at 
                                            Indianapolis
                                         was dated March 5.
                        
                        
                        
                           
                              
                                            
                                                Chattanooga
                                                Tenn.
                                            
                                        
                              30
                              Apr 20
                              Ap 21
                           
                           
                              
                                 
                                                Charleston
                                             "
                              40
                              Apr 24
                               
                           
                        
                        We marched afoot 210 miles
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    May 2nd 64.
                                
                        Gen Schofield has nearly all of his Corps here. There is some talk that we will leave
                                    this place in a few days but we know nothing about it, nor we dont know where we
                                    will go if we do leave.
                        I think from the General movements and the news from home that the Government is
                                    going to put the war over this spring and summer if it is possible that it can be
                                    done….
                        You have no idea… what it is to be among so many troops. There is now
                                    about 10000 or 12000 at this place. It is military and nothing else. There is as
                                    much rattle and noise as there is in 
                                        Madison
                                    —but there is hardly a citizen to be seen, that is a
                                    man—there are plenty of women. Generally 5 or 6 in a
                                    house—refugees from the rebels.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Six miles South of 
                                    Cleveland
                                 
                              
                           
                                    May 5" 1864.
                                
                        Contrary to our expectations we had to pull up stakes at 
                                        Charleston
                                     day before yesterday and leave our comfortable arrangements and again
                                    betake ourselves to the march. We are now in camp 25 miles from Dalton on the rail
                                    road from 
                                        Cleveland
                                     toward Dalton. We dont know where we will go….
                        They are repairing the rail road along here so that the cars can run on further
                                    towards Dalton. The trains could only run as far as we are.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              In the field Near Tunnel Hill
                           
                                    Sunday May 8" 1864.
                                
                        After laying in the Sun half the day waiting orders we at last rec'd them
                                    and started of[f] in the line of the rail road for Dalton. We marched 7 miles and
                                    went into camp where we remained till yesterday when we started and through the
                                    effects of bad whisky on the Generals & ignorance of the roads we inarched
                                    about 20 miles to make 7 to this place. We are now about 2 or 3 miles in rear of
                                    Tunnel Hill held as a reserve and waiting further orders.
                        Our troops took Tunnel Hill the other day and are now getting along fine. But the
                                    best news we have is Grants victory in 
                                        Virginia
                                    . Our regts were called up and the Dispatch read to them all. You ought
                                    to have heard the soldiers Cheering. If Grant comes out all right at 
                                        Richmond
                                    , I think we will be sure to get home this fall, for I dont think there
                                    is any doubt but this army will use them up well enough at 
                                        Dalton
                                    . Isnt that bully.
                        We are now in camp where the rebel pickets stood 2 days ago but our troops (that is
                                    Union troops) run them away and the cavalry say they are now retreating towards Dal
                                    [t] on where old Gen Hooker will give them a lift some of these days and see if he
                                    cant lift them out of the place. And we feel pretty well satisfied that he will be
                                    successful.
                        
                        They are pushing things along in a hurry down in front here, and I think by the time
                                    this reaches you you will hear good news from Dalton as well as from 
                                        Virginia
                                    . The old troops by thousands have been passing to the front where they
                                    have a line of 8 or 10 miles.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Chattanooga
                                    Tenn.
                                 
                              
                           
                                    May 21" 64
                                
                        Still laying around here at 
                                        Chattanooga
                                    …. They say the regt is about 40 miles the other side of
                                    Dalton with the army and the rebs running all the time…. The report now
                                    is… that the armies are fighting hard down in front.
                        I am laying here in camp where the Christian Commission furnishes us all the
                                    religious newspapers and Testaments we want. They also furnish us paper, pens
                                    & ink to write home and pay the postage on our letters if we wish them to do
                                    so. I have just been over and got a paper and a Testament. They also furnish us some
                                    potatoes, Crout &c but the officers get the most of the eatables and those
                                    that are very sick. Us convalascents dont get many good things. We have Bread, meat,
                                    beans and Coffee. Sometimes rice….
                        I am getting tired of staying back here, but I am afraid that I would not be stout
                                    enough to march and carry a knapsack. It may be that I am missing some fun or
                                    fighting by staying here at 
                                        Chattanooga
                                    . But war is all luck at best. So whether I am in luck or not it is all
                                    the same. It may be that I will get to do fighting before the war is over. They are
                                    all the time bringing wounded men in from the front and such as are able are sent on
                                    to 
                                        Nashville
                                    . Though the numbers brought in are not great considering the size of
                                    the Army. Oh! may the war close. Pray all for the close of the war.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Chattanooga
                                    Tenn.
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Sunday May 22nd 1864
                                
                        I am getting now perfectly stout and hearty. Still I am in the convalescent camp
                                    expecting every day or two to go to the regt. I have not heard much from the regt
                                    since I left it only that they are after the rebs beyond Dalton. They say fighting
                                    is still going on in front, and the rebs are retreating towards
                                            
                              Atlanta, Georgia
                           . Also it is said that 2 Corps of our men are
                                    between the rebs and 
                                        Atlanta
                                     to keep them out of that place. If that is so, the rebs are surely in a
                                    desperate fix.
                        We have the news here that the 27" was in a hard fight and got badly cut up
                                    but we have not heard any names. I hope it is not as bad as represented. They say
                                    that they just cut and slashed the rebs all to pieces, just run mad and had no fears
                                    at all….
                        Well, well I wonder what you will do up north for men. I see now since the 100 days
                                    men are furnished the Government is thin[k]-ing of calling for 300,000 more
                                    volunteers. I guess they are going to try to frighten the rebs out and make them lay
                                    down their arms without fighting.
                     
                  
               
                
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              U. S. General Hospital
                              
                                 
                                    Chattanooga
                                  Tenn
                           
                                    May 27" 1864.
                                
                        I got a letter from Jimmy yesterday, he is with the regt and in good health. He said
                                    in his letter that the 120 had been in a small fight and that 5 in the regt were
                                    wounded. They had to charge the rebs across an open field. He said they stood it
                                    fine….
                        We have the report here that our army corps (the 23") has been ordered to 
                                        Virginia
                                    . If that is so, I may not see the regt for some time, for it would be
                                    impossible to overtake it after it leaves the rail road. Jimmy said in his letter
                                    that they were 90 miles from here and still kept going. But the rebs have crossed a
                                    river and burned the bridge which would stop them a day or two. They drew 10 days
                                    rations….
                        A few words about Soldiers aid societys &c. I am here where I can see the
                                    workings of these things very well. And I see that the things which the people at
                                    home contribute for the poor sick and wounded soldiers are about half or more eaten
                                    by by the nasty cooks and lazy Doctors and nurses, while the soldiers for whom they
                                    were intended suffer. So I would say to all if you want to help the poor sick
                                    soldiers, send it to them your self by express, and dont allow any body else to
                                    handle it.
                        The other day I saw a soldier who was shot through the breast and in a bad fix
                                    cursing because he could not get half enough to eat, and at the same time the cooks
                                    were feasting on Butter, Onions, Potatoes, and such things sent from home for sick
                                    soldiers.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Convalescent Camp
                              
                                 
                                    Chattanooga
                                  Tenn
                           
                                    June 1" 1864.
                                
                        I think the hard fighting will be over when 
                                        Richmond
                                     and 
                                        Atlanta
                                     is taken, and I think that will be done by the 4" of July. But
                                    after the fighting is done they may keep a body some time on Garrison duty. I tell
                                    you I have a low opinion of the Rebs. They will kill till they are all killed off
                                    unless the Government adop[t]s very strict rules of punishment. I think when the war
                                    is over there will be some forces kept as post Guards but who they will keep I of
                                    course cant say. One thing is certain I shant get mad if they send me home as soon
                                    as the thing is done or sooner if they wish….
                        We can buy 
                                        Cincinnati
                                     & 
                                        Louisville
                                     Papers (if we have money).
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Still at the Convalescent Camp
                              
                                 
                                    Chattanooga
                                  Tenn
                           
                                    June 5" 1864.
                                
                        This evening I have wandered around to the Christian Commission where we can write on
                                    a good table…. As this is Sunday we thought we must have something extra
                                    for dinner to day, so we got us a nice mess of Greens and boiled it with our
                                    Sow-belly and fried our hard tack in water and grease which with good coffee almost
                                    made me think I was at home again….
                        
                        The bridge here at the foot of Lookout Mountain broke down the other day so that we
                                    have had no mail for a few days, though it will be fixed tomorrow….
                        We have been having some very bad weather on soldiers for 3 or 4 days past. It has
                                    rained almost constantly since the morning of the 2" inst till to day, and
                                    part of the time so hard that it almost washed our tents away. But I think now the
                                    rain is about over. It is the best growing weather I ever saw. I would like to see
                                    the corn in Indiana. How does young crops look? Yes, and then there is a great many
                                    things in Indiana I would like to see besides young crops, but I must wait my
                                    time….
                        I am getting as fat as a dog, and twice as lousy. But I kill em.
                                    Every thing here is full of lice, go into an old camp and you can almost hear them
                                    crack under your feet as you walk along, but then it gives us good exercise to kill
                                    them and keeps us from getting so lazy…. The woods down about Dalton
                                    where the rebs left was alive with them.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Chattanooga
                                    Tenn.
                                 
                              
                           
                                    June 22" 1864.
                                
                        We have no news much from the front, but still the news such as we can get is all
                                    good, especially from Grant. You know Sherman is very still & dont allow
                                    much said. The rebs captured a train below here the other day, and we looked some
                                    for them here, but I guess they thought hardly safe "so they let us
                                    alone." And we didn't get to use the canon we run up into the
                                    forts where none had been placed before. They are still fortifying this place, and
                                    will make it a strong military post after the war is over.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Chattanooga
                                    Tenn.
                                 
                              
                           
                                    June 29" /64.
                                
                        From what the old soldiers tell me… I am troubled by the scurvy. My teeth
                                    and Gums are sore and my legs hurt me and ache, if I exercise too much. But still it
                                    is a disease that can be cured easy enough if I could get the right kind of medicine
                                    or it will leave when cold weather comes.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              2" Battallion Exchange Camp
                              
                                 
                                    Chattanooga
                                 
                              
                           
                                    July 1" 1864
                                
                        I suppose before you get this it will be the 4" of July…. I may
                                    hear them fire a few Cannon here but I don't like the sound of Cannon. I
                                    heard them out at 
                                        Dalton
                                    . They have about 150 Cannon here.
                        The corn here has been in Tassel for a week, a little earlier I expect than it is up
                                    in Ind…. The mountains are beautiful to look at but still I dont like
                                    them. (Especially when I have to climb them.)
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Street 11 2" Batt. Exchange Camp
                              
                                 
                                    Chattanooga
                                 
                              
                           
                                    July 3rd 1864
                                
                        I never want to hear a drum or see a cannon after the war is over. I want them to put
                                    the Cannon away and burst the head of  every
                                    Drum in in the U.S. Or if they have them at celebrations they wont get me in the
                                    procession. I dont like to march to the music of Drum and fife as well as I did a
                                    few years ago. I expect after I get home if I was to hear a drum I would imagine I
                                    heard somebody saying fall in! fall in!! and then you'd see me bounce out
                                    of bed in my shirt tail and begin to look about for my knapsack and gun expecting
                                    sure to be attacked immediately. But then instead of looking for my gun I might jump
                                    up and break out at the back door under the supposition that a hasty retreat was
                                    necessary.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Chattanooga
                                 
                              
                           
                                    July 4" 1864
                                
                        An old rich reffugee from 
                                        Atlanta
                                     says that one victory now and then the election of Lincoln and the war
                                    will be over…. The election of Lincoln will wind up the war especially if
                                    our arms are successfull this summer….
                        Our Major is here in Town. He says that the 120" is completely run down what
                                    there is of it at the front…. The 120" has been put through too
                                    hard all for the Glory of officers. We could have missed this hard campaign if it
                                    had not been for the ambitious officers. Gen. Hovey has resigned because he could
                                    not get another star on his shoulder. I hate the looks of Gen. Hovey….
                        Butternuts are our greatest enemys.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Chattanooga
                                    Tenn.
                                 
                              
                           
                                    July 7" 1864.
                                
                        The prisoners are coming in by the thousand and report says we have taken 9000 but we
                                    will call it about 3,000 I think that will do…. I am still laying laying
                                    here in the Exchange Camp in charge of street 11. I sometimes get the blues and wish
                                    I was with the regt and then again I conclude I might as well be satisfied and stay
                                    where I am….
                        I suppose by this time my wheat is ripe and perhaps is cut.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Chattanooga
                                    Tenn.
                                 
                              
                           
                                    July 17" 1864
                                
                        There was a call yesterday for all who wanted to go front of the 23" corps.
                                    But I'll hold on a while and see if the weather wont get a little cooler
                                    befor I start front. Then you see I dont much like the way they shoot people out at
                                    the front. They're just as apt to shoot toward a mas as any other way. But
                                    what made me feel worse than any thing else when I was at the front was to set and
                                    listen at a charge on a battery when for a few minutes there was constant hollowing
                                    & shooting both from the Cannon and musketry and then all at once it stoped
                                    and all was as still as death. This awful stillness makes me feel uneasy till I hear
                                    the result, but when I learn that it is in our favor I soon began to feel better.
                                    Fighting near as bad as folks at home think. Still they kill.
                     
                  
               
                
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Chattanooga
                                    Tenn.
                                 
                              
                           
                                    July 22nd 1864
                                
                        Capt Brasher of the 120" has come back after all the boys of the Division,
                                    and although I still could have remained here I would rather go up when the call is
                                    made and not stay back and give the boys room to think coward.
                        The Adjutant of this camp refused at first to let me go and leave my street, but at
                                    last he consented and gave me written permission to hunt up all the boys of the
                                    120" that were able and have them ready to go too.
                        Oh! Well! Well!! Well!!! I almost forgot to tell you my reasons for leaving this
                                    place, or as the boys call it, this stinking hole.
                        Wo be unto the Doctors. That is my text and if I preach a hard sermon from it you may
                                    show it to all the Doctors you see and warn them of the dangers to come, for the
                                    latest news here, from below is that the Devil beleiving the doctors has a better
                                    claim than him he has evacuated Hell and given the Doc's undisputed
                                    possession. Having issued his general orders No. 1. constituting of that infernal
                                    place, one immense Doctors office, where by the carelessness of the Dr's
                                    and the ill-timed application of remedies through carelessness and laziness will
                                    greatly augment the punishment of those who[m] they cannot punish sufficiently with
                                    fire….
                        While in Hospital No. 8 there was an immense amount of San-ittary goods furnished the
                                    Hospital for the sick and wounded soldiers. Did they get it? I looked about enough
                                    to see while the poor Soldiers were suffering and Dying for
                                    attention to their wants and were fed the coarsest fare the Dr's fared as
                                    well as they could have procured in Indiana with money, and then lazily lounged
                                    about refusing even to dress the soldiers wounds. I saw sick men dine on boiled beef
                                    and bread and maggots in the beef at that. I havent room to say what the
                                    Dr's had the same day, but all rareties of the season—Crout
                                    &c &c. And at the same time you could have seen a
                                    wounded soldier with maggots in his wounds for want of attention. Wo be unto the
                                    Detors. And still there cometh another woe.
                        I soon got tired of that place and told the Drs I wanted to go to the
                                    regt—they said I could go—but I was stopped out here where I
                                    have remained in charge of street 11. I have had generally from 30 to 50 sick men in
                                    the street for whom I had to get the medicine when the Doctors would prescribe for
                                    them. Of course I saw something of the sick and the Doctors. Now I will tell you
                                    what I seen here.
                        While the men were laying half dead the Dr's would remain away for 3, 4 and
                                    even 7 days without calling to see the sick and if you went to hunt them you might
                                    have to visit every beer saloon in town before you would find them and then likely
                                    so drunk as to be unfit for duty.
                        How would you like to take medicine issued by a Stewart so drunk that his tounge
                                    [sic] was very thick and he could hardly stand. I quit taking their medicines and
                                    soon got better. The Major raked them for staying away and then they would come up
                                    past the Major tents and slip into the back room of the sutlers tent and drink beer
                                         (and whisky too) and play cards all day
                                    while the boys were suffering by hundreds for attention. This I know them to do. The
                                    Major has been informed of this also and says he will see too it.
                        Wo! Wo!! unto the Doctors. Soldiers despise them. Of course there are exceptions but
                                    the greater part come into the army for money and because the boys here are mostly
                                    strangers too [sic] them and they think it will not injoure them.
                                    They are perfectly reckless of human life and suffering. Put me in the front under
                                    rebel fire rather than in a mean Doctors hands…. They shall reap their
                                    reward…. As I was in command of a street here the sick of course looked
                                    to me to have something done for them. And in lots of cases I have had men to lay
                                    unnoticed when I did not know but they would die in 12 hours and it was impossible
                                    to find a Doctor.
                        And then they would order me to put the men on duty when I knew they were not able.
                                    And taking it all together it made me anxious to get a good chance to get away. I
                                    have now a chance to go [to] the regt on the cars. The regimental baggage and books
                                    are being sent up so that I don't think they will move much longer and the
                                    way I feel I am able for duty and it will be a great deal easier than it is here
                                    now….
                        The Johny's are so discouraged that they wont make a bold stand anymore.
                                    Altogether I think the rebelion is about played out.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Chattanooga
                                    Tenn.
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Sunday A.M. July 24" 64.
                                
                        I have not got away from 
                                        Chattanooga
                                     yet and I will not till Capt. Brasher comes back from 
                                        Knoxville
                                     where as I told you in my last he went to gather up the boys of the
                                    120". I looked for him back before this time but I have not seen him, so I
                                    suppose I will not get off for 2 or 3 days yet. I was in hopes I would get to the
                                    front in time to march into 
                                        Atlanta
                                     with the army, but I have missed that fun…. If Gen Grant is
                                    successful at 
                                        Richmond
                                     I think the thing will be over and we fellows will get to come home
                                    before 6 months longer….
                        I have drawn Drawers, socks a hat and a fine pair of Pants. So now I have a new suit
                                    all round. My new pants fit me the best of any I ever had. I'm not ready to
                                    go [to the] front, though I am getting afraid the Capt has went back and left me
                                    here though I think not.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Chattanooga
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Sunday P. M. July 24 64.
                                
                        Since I wrote this morning I have been down in town and saw some of the boys from 
                                        Knoxville
                                     that came down with Capt Brasher and we now expect to leave for the
                                    front tomorrow evening or Tuesday morning Early.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Chattanooga
                                    Tenn.
                                 
                              
                           
                                    July 26" 1864
                                
                        Again I can address you from 
                                        Chattanooga
                                    . I expected sure to leave here this time sure. Capt. Brasher had
                                    transportation for us  from this camp, but after
                                    packing our knapsacks and starting down to town, the Major stoped us and told us if
                                    our Captain was wanting us he must come up and show his authority. He made us stop
                                    and stack our arms and wait to see if the cap would come after us. After waiting
                                    awhile I got permission to go down to town to see the cap. but just as I was getting
                                    into town the train left. So you see the Capt left without us and we were left
                                    behind. I asked the major if he did not give me written permission to gather up boys
                                    of the 23" corps. He said he did, but before we could take them away the
                                    capt must come and show his authority. I'm madder than any bull, but now I
                                    might just as well say nothing about it and stay contented. I don't know
                                    now when I will go to the front….
                        Well I suppose you have heard the good news and the bad. They are having a pretty
                                    hard time down at 
                                        Atlanta
                                    , but so far as we can learn our troops are successful but we have lost
                                    our old Gen Rosseau who commanded our Corps and the 15" and 16".
                                    But then he did not suffer any more than a high private. Still he was a good
                                    General.
                        The Prisoners and the wounded are coming in. And I guess our men still hold 
                                        Atlanta
                                    …. I tell you the reb Prisoners are hard customers. The
                                    officers even to Colonels as dirty as dogs.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Chattanooga
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Aug" 3" 1864
                                
                        Sherman has not took 
                                        Atlanta
                                     yet, but "we are looking every day when he will." And
                                    there is no doubt but what he will. The rebel Prisoners all admit that themselves.
                                    Tell the butternuts up there to either make peace and stop the war this fall or else
                                    stop their mouths and the soldiers will make peace their way.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Chattanooga
                                    Tenn.
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Aug. 13" 8 A. M.
                                
                        We have no news from the front. I guess Sherman has laid siege to 
                                        Atlanta
                                    . They were sending out some 100 Pounders from here yesterday. That
                                    looks somewhat like a siege…. I have just heard from the front that they
                                    had a small fight last Sunday and took 300 or 400 Prisoners…. Now if
                                    Sherman will just take 
                                        Atlanta
                                     and all the rebs in it and Grant will blow Lee's army and
                                    richmond out of Uncle Sams Domain, I think we will soon see an end to this cruel
                                    war.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        [No date given]
                        Well, Well Sarah it may be that they will want the soldiers at home about Election
                                    times to put down this little insurrection up there. Now I just dare them to call
                                    them home for that. Unless the whole Democratic party should raise and then they
                                    might as well call the soldiers all home. Let the South go and whip the Copperheads
                                    half to death yes entirely to death for they deserve 10 deaths to where a southern
                                    rebel deserves one…. I think now Sarah that that disturbance at the north
                                    is the only hope the south has. They look for the North to split up and weaken
                                    themselves so that they  will be unable to
                                    continue the war next season. If the North does its duty and hangs a lot of those
                                    northern rebs the war will soon wind up—as soon as the South sees that
                                    the Copperheads cant help them.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Chattanooga
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Aug 18" 1864
                                
                        I will tell you how the scurvy works and as much as I know about it, though there are
                                    several different forms of the disease, but it is all called Scurvy, There is one
                                    kind that is closely akin to the rheumatism. That is it hurts just about like it but
                                    generally in the legs. The legs will turn black especially the Calves of the legs,
                                    and the skin on the shin bones gets tight to the bone so you cant shake it. And hard
                                    lump will raise on the shins like the bones were swelling. Then the legs will get
                                    stiff especially the knee joints. Well now that is the kind I am troubled with, but
                                    I have described the worst forms of that kind. I have seen men whose legs were as
                                    black as coal but mine never turned black more than a small patch and that is good
                                    now. My legs do not hurt me now unless I run about all day then it feels like I had
                                    the rheumatism in them. Then they swell some too. But my health is very good and I
                                    am getting fat all the time. I have plenty to eat and nothing to do…. The
                                    scurvy is caused by eating too much salt meat and no vegetables and also by
                                    exposure….
                        I must now tell you about the times here at Katanooger as the citizens call it. Truly
                                    we have had exciting times. The rebs in some force have been tearing up the rail
                                    road down at and about Dalton. Yes and they captured Dalton and a few of our men and
                                    400 head of Uncle Sams Cattle. Well of course you know they got scared here and we
                                    had to all roll out with our rusty guns—us convalescents—to
                                    defend 
                                        Chattanooga
                                    . Well we left our guns in the stack to be ready at any time the rebs
                                    might come in, but it so happened that they didnt come so we didnt have to fight!
                                    They sent 5 regts out from here to Dalton and they put down the disturbance. They
                                    put down this little rebellion by a severe charge by the 14 U. S. Colored troops.
                                    The nigs would not take a prisoner but killed every reb. that wanted to
                                    surrender….
                        I was amused to see the citizens here when they were looking for the rebs to come in,
                                    more particularly those butternut Employees of Uncle Sams, who never saw [a] fight.
                                    I was laying over on the hill side in the cool of the evening and hearing folks talk
                                    when 2 Employees came by us fast as they could walk going over to a good place to
                                    see the fight, when they would be safe themselves. I asked them what the news was
                                    down in town and they told me our pickets had been drawn in and that the rebs were
                                    then coming right on to the town. But you see the soldiers knew that was all a lie,
                                    for I was laying where I could see to Rossville, 4 miles away, and the rebs would
                                    have to whip 2 regts of soldiers and 2 pieces of artillery before they could pass
                                    that place. So you see we knew we would hear some noise before the rebs got within 4
                                    or 5 miles of us, but the noise didnt come—nor the rebs either. And then
                                    too we knew (or thought might strong) that the rebs would not attack 
                                        Chattanooga
                                    , for if they did they would have to approach the town across a valley
                                    about 3 miles wide and all the time they would be crossing there would be  about 75 cannon pouring Grape and shell into
                                    them besides our minies from behind the breastworks & we all know the Johnys
                                    are not fond of such charges as that and a cross fire at that….
                        I saw Lunt McGaurron this morning. He is here recruiting niggers for Jennings Co.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Chattanooga
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Aug 19" 64
                                
                        Vegetables are plenty here! Potatoes 2 dollars pr bushel. Apples and peaches plenty
                                    but sell pretty high…. The officer commanding here has made a great
                                    blunder I think. He has issued an order prohibiting soldiers from selling their
                                    rations so I cant get any vegetables at all now without money. I dont think that was
                                    right at all.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Chattanooga
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Aug 21" 64
                                
                        My back still hurts me some. I have just thought how to describe the Scurvy to you so
                                    you will all know just how it makes me feel. Just imagine if you can how Aunt Sally
                                    Tobias feels when she has a severe spell of the sick headache and you will know just
                                    how I feel. Though I have no old Handkerchief to tie my head up which perhaps makes
                                    mine a little worse.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Chattanooga
                                    Tenn.
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Aug 26' 64
                                
                        So I suppose from your account that the Butternuts are quite mute in Jackson Co. What
                                    do they say about this little affair at 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     when Gov Morton got some of their arms and 20000 rounds of ammunition?
                                    What fools they are. Dont they know they will get whipped like dogs? Let them raise
                                    an army of 200,000 if they can and still they could not make a show. It is very true
                                    they might if they could raise that many compell this army to fall back and let the
                                    rebs alone for a while but when it fell back those Butternuts would get the best
                                    threshing they have had for awhile or heard tell of either. It is the general
                                    feeling of the soldiers that if they should have to fall back and leave the rebs
                                    they will whip the butternuts like Dogs anyhow….
                        And Bill Stewart has the 
                                        Minnesota
                                     fever, has he? I think at such times as this when a man can do well in
                                    Ind he had better stay there for it would be a hard time to go west and get fooled
                                    as bad as some have. And then… the Indians might be some trouble. And I
                                    would rather live with rebs than with them. I myself think this is a very good time
                                    for people to stay at home and make a living as best they can but by no means go in
                                    debt for anything for there is sure before long to be considerable change in money
                                    matters….
                        I had forgot to say anything about my health. Well, it is not very good. My back and
                                    legs have kept me pritty still for the last week also I have light fever every
                                    evening which makes me weak, still nothing dangerous. Nothing but the scurvy. The
                                    fever is a kind of slow invalid fever. Not hot like I have had at home but it is now
                                    lighter than it was a few days ago….
                        I am living fat on peaches Sarah. I had a peck given to me the other day.
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            A Very Early Indiana Territorial Letter
            Henry A. Meyer∗
            Stamp collectors, two generations ago considered "queer" or
                    "childish" by those who did not feel an interest in their activities, have of late
                    years taken on a new dignity by reason of their having turned their attention to that phase of
                    philately known as "postal history." To pursue this line of study, it is necessary
                    to collect, not used or unused single stamps in an album provided with spaces, but those objects
                    known to collectors as "covers." A "cover," to a philatelist, is
                    the envelope or other enclosure of a letter, bearing an address, sometimes a stamp, and a postmark
                    or other visible evidence of its having passed through the mail. The first national issue of 
                        United States
                     postage stamps appeared in 1847, and the use of stamps was made compulsory in 1856;
                    therefore, previous to 1847, and very largely also during the period from 1847 to 1856, the covers
                    collected by philatelists are those known as "stampless covers." More and more
                    collectors are realizing that these stampless covers, sometimes called "pre-stamp
                    covers," are equally as interesting as stamps, and in many cases even more so. There are
                    many philatelists who limit their collecting to stampless covers, and they are among the most ardent
                    postal history students.
            The use of envelopes to contain letters did not become widespread in the 
                        United States
                     until the early 1850's, and it did not become universal in this country until
                    well after the Civil War. Previous to the use of envelopes, the letter was written on pages 1, 2,
                    and 3 of a large double sheet, leaving page 4, or at least most of it, blank. The letter was then
                    folded in such a manner that page 4 became the outside. The two sides were folded inward; the top
                    and bottom were then folded over the middle portion, and one fold was tucked into the other, thus
                    reducing the whole to a neat rectangle, usually about 3x5 inches or somewhat larger in size. The top
                    and bottom flaps, one of which had been inserted in the other, were sealed, either with sealing wax,
                    or with a prepared "wafer" which could be had at the general store. This wafer was
                    a small circular device, red in color, which was laid between the folds to be sealed, and a hot iron
                    was set 
                  
                     ∗ Henry A. Meyer is a teacher of mathematics at Central
                            High School, 
                                Evansville
                            , Indiana, and an amateur student of early 
                                Evansville
                             and Indiana history as well as the history of transportation on the 
                                Ohio
                            . He is an active worker in the History Sketchers, the early Indiana study group
                            of the 
                                Evansville
                             Public Museum.
               
                     upon it for a few seconds. If care was taken in opening the
                    letter, very little damage resulted from the manner of sealing; but if the seal was torn hastily, it
                    often made a very unsightly hole in the letter. Letters thus folded, self-contained and sent without
                    an envelope, are called by collectors "folded letters." "Stampless
                    covers" are in a majority of cases also "folded letters" and vice versa,
                    though not universally so.
            "Folded letters" have proved to be a very rich source of original historical
                    material, not only for the postal history student, but also for the student of national, state, and
                    local history. A century ago, when letters were sent and received only rarely, families and business
                    firms saved their entire correspondence, filing it meticulously, either in some sort of homemade
                    filing cabinets, or in large chests in the attic. There it reposed for several generations, until
                    the descendants of the original receivers of the letters found them and did one of three things;
                    destroyed them, as did the priest in the 
                        Illinois
                     town; saved them as family heirlooms, which was better than destroying them, but only
                    rarely do letters thus saved become available as historical source material, because those who save
                    them attach to them only a family interest, not a general historical interest; or sold them in bulk
                    to stamp dealers, who retailed them to collectors, who, becoming conscious of their historical
                    value, have either gone into historical research themselves, or have made them available to research
                    students.
            It was through the discarding of old files of correspondence that Professor John C. Andressohn of
                    Indiana University was able to acquire some forty letters of the Rappites relating to their business
                    dealings. It was as a philatelist that the present writer acquired further letters relating to the
                    doings of the Rappites which he made available to Professor Andressohn, who has reported them in
                    supplementary articles.1 It was also as a philatelist that the present writer
                    bought a letter described by the dealer as "a very early Indiana stampless cover"
                    and which turned out to possess considerably more historical than philatelic value. This letter
                    forms the subject of the present article.
            It is indeed a "very early Indiana letter." Letters of the territorial period dated
                    from 1807 onwards are offered occasionally by dealers, but are quite scarce. But the letter 
                  
                     1 "Three Additional Rappite Letters," Indiana Magazine of History (Bloomingrton, 1905-), XLV (1949), 184-188.
               
                     here discussed is dated 1801—less than a year and a
                    half after the territory was created. It does not bear an Indiana postmark; if it did, the
                    dealer's price would no doubt have been prohibitive. As was a very common custom in the
                    early 1800's, it was carried privately, by a traveler going that way, as near to its
                    destination as possible, for postage rates at that time were computed by distance.2 As was also a prevailing custom at that time, it was not prepaid, but was sent unpaid, the
                    postage being collected of the addressee. Stamp-less cover collectors rate the scarcity of prepaid
                    letters to letters sent collect as at least ten to one. Therefore as a courtesy to the addressee, it
                    was sent by messenger as far as possible, so that the rate as figured by distance would be
                    reasonable. The letter is addressed to 
                  Hudson,
                            New York
               , and bears a red
                    "shell" postmark of 
                        New York City
                    . If there chance to be any philatelists among the readers of this article, they know
                    that the "
                        New York
                     shell" is a postmark highly prized by collectors, especially when applied in
                    red ink. But the feature which makes this letter of great interest to students of Indiana history is
                    the fact that it was written from the Harrison house in 
                        Vincennes
                     by a near relative of the Harrison family, and that it relates to the doings of the
                    family and to events well known to students of the history of the Territory Northwest of the 
                        Ohio
                    .
            The following is a description of the address side of the "folded letter," as
                    nearly as it can be reproduced: 
                        (
                                New York
                             shell postmark)3 12½4
                  
                        Mar 26
                        Mrs. Bell,
                        City of Hudson
                        State of 
                                New York
                            —
                        To the care of Brockholst Livingston, Esq.5
                  
                        
                     
                                Broadway
                             37. 
                                New York
                            —
                        Honored by
                        Mr. Gratiot—6
                  
                    
            
            The directive, "To the care of…" indicates that the writer intended to
                    send the letter by mail; but that line and the following one are very neatly crossed out by numerous
                    diagonal strokes, and the phrase "Honored by Mr. Gratiot" is added in the extreme
                    bottom corner as an afterthought.
            
               
                  2 Rates from 1799 to 1814: not over 40 miles, 8 cents; 40 to 90 miles, 10
                        cents; 90 to 150 miles, 12% cents; 150 to 300 miles, 17 cents; 300 to 500 miles, 20 cents; over
                        500, 25 cents.
               
                  3,4,5,6 (See next page.)
            
            
            The writer of the letter, "S. Symmes," was Susanna, the third wife of John Cleves
                    Symmes and the stepmother of Mrs. William Henry Harrison. She was evidently living 
                  
                     3 The date of the letter being stated as Oct. 15, 1801, and the date
                            of the postmark (the "
                                New York
                             shell") being Mar. 26, it took the "Spanish Gentleman from 
                                St. Louis
                            " a little over five months to make the journey. That is entirely
                            possible, if he paused occasionally to attend to his many business matters.
                  
                     4 The postage rate from 
                                New York City
                             to Hudson, 12% cents, to be collected of Mrs. Bell.
                  
                     5 Brockholst Livingston, in whose care the letter was originally
                            addressed, had been an officer in the Revolution. He was an Associate Justice of the 
                                United States
                             Supreme Court from 1807 until his death in 1823. He wrote political pamphlets
                            of the Whig persuasion under the penname of "Decius." He was the son of
                            William Livingston, and therefore the brother of Mrs. Susanna Symmes. Their other sister,
                            Sarah, became Mrs. John Jay. The great-grandfather of Brockholst, Susanna, and Sarah
                            Livingston was Robert Livingston, a Scotchman who received grants of land on the Hudson,
                            beginning in 1686, which became known as Livingston Manor and. which comprised the greater
                            part of the present Dutchess and 
                                Columbia
                             counties. "The Manor" referred to by Mrs. Symmes was their
                            ancestral estate, Livingston Manor. Mrs. Bell, the addressee, was probably their neighbor
                            and friend in 
                                Hudson
                            . John A. Krout, "William Livingston," in Dictionary of American Biography (20 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1943), XI, 325-327; Robert E. Cushman, "Henry Brockholst
                            Livingston," in ibid., 312-313.
                  
                            
                        6 The directive, "Honored by Mr. Gratiot," should
                                be explained. The customary phrase found on old stampless covers is "Politeness
                                of——." "In care of" does not seem to
                                have found favor with letter writers of those days. On a southern letter of the Civil
                                War period, the present writer has "By the urbanity of Lieut. Bryant."
                                The Symmes letter is the only one he has found with the phrase "Honored
                                by."
                            Charles Gratiot (1752-1817) was born in 
                           Lausanne, Switzerland
                        , of
                                Hugenot parents. At seventeen, he went to 
                                    London
                                , and from there immediately to Montreal, where he joined his uncle in the
                                fur trade. In 1775 he formed a partnership and went west on a fur venture, in which he
                                lost heavily. In 1777 with two partners operating under the title of David McCrae
                                & Company, he again went west. He opened a store in 
                                    Cahokia
                                , while the other two partners opened one in Kas-kaskia. He became a friend
                                of George Rogers Clark, Jean-Gabriel Cerre, Father Gibault, and John Jacob Astor. In
                                1781, Gratiot moved to 
                                    St. Louis
                                , where he married Victoire, the half-sister of Colonel Auguste Chouteau. He
                                traveled repeatedly to 
                                    New Orleans
                                , to the Atlantic seaboard, and to Europe in connection with his business
                                ventures. Besides his fur tradings, he operated a distillery, a tannery, saltworks, and
                                engaged in land dealings. The formal transfer of 
                                    Upper Louisiana
                                 on March 10, 1804, took place on his portico, with himself as interpreter.
                                He was the first presiding judge of the Court of Quarter Sessions of 
                                    St. Louis
                                 He was a trustee of the town of 
                                    St. Louis
                                 when it was first incorporated in 1809. He had a good knowledge of law and
                                a very logical mind. He prepared his own legal briefs, using French and English equally
                                well. One more feature remains to be studied, namely, the identity of the
                                "Spanish gentleman from 
                                    St. Louis
                                ." He turns out to be not Spanish, but French, and a man of rare
                                distinction. He has been honored by having had named for him a street in 
                                    St. Louis
                                , likewise a street in 
                                    Detroit
                                , and a fort, a town, and a county in 
                                    Michigan
                                .
                            Fort St. Joseph, near Port Huron, 
                                    Michigan
                                , established by the French in 1686, was renamed Fort Gratiot in honor of
                                General Charles
                        
               
                     with the Harrisons at 
                        Vincennes
                     while her husband was attending to his duties and personal affairs at 
                        Marietta
                    .7
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Vincennes
                                  Indiana Territory
                           
                                    Octr—15th—1801
                                
                        My ever dr. friend
                        I am indeed ashamed of myself for having suffered your friendly letter to remain
                                    unnoticed several posts, but this lazy habit of procrastination that I have suffered
                                    to grow upon me shall be broken through; Mr. Harrison observed that my friends
                                    letters did me no good, for that I was always melancholy several days after I
                                    received any, & in particular he sd. he had always remarked that Mrs.
                                    Bell's letters had that effect on me, & true it is, for then I weep
                                    not only 
                              Gratiot, who was chief engineer in General Harrison's army in
                                            1813-1814, and chief engineer of the 
                                                United States
                                             Army from 1828 to 1838. The settlement around the fort was
                                            called Fort Gratiot until it was annexed to Fort Huron in 1893. When a road
                                            was opened from 
                                                Detroit
                                             to Fort Gratiot, it was called the Gratiot Road. As 
                                                Detroit
                                             expanded in area, the Gratiot Road became Gratiot Avenue, the
                                            chief thoroughfare through 
                                                Detroit
                                            's east side. Thus the name of the French fur trader
                                            who became useful to his adopted country in so many lines is perpetuated in
                                            two great cities. W. J. Ghent, "Charles Gratiot," in Dictionary of American Biography, VII, 503-504.
                              
                                 7 John Cleves Symmes (1742-1814) lived in 
                                                New Jersey
                                             from 1770 to 1785. He was chairman of the Committee of
                                            Correspondence for Sussex County in 1774; a colonel in the militia in 1775;
                                            he helped cover 
                                                Washington
                                            's retreat through 
                                                New Jersey
                                             in 1776; he was a member of the 
                                                New Jersey
                                             Convention in 1776; a member of the 
                                                New Jersey
                                             Legislative Council in 1776, 1780, and 1785; and Associate
                                            Justice of the 
                                                New Jersey
                                             Supreme Court in 1778 and 1783; a member of the Continental
                                            Congress, 1785-1786. He became interested in western colonization, and
                                            applied for two million acres of land between the two Miamis in 1787; the
                                            following year he contracted for one million acres. The same year (1788) he
                                            was appointed one of the three judges of the Territory Northwest of the 
                                                Ohio
                                            . He founded the settlement of North Bend in 1793. He sold many
                                            parcels of the land for which he contracted, but because of a general money
                                            stringency he could not collect, and could therefore not make the payments
                                            for which he was obligated. Jonathan Dayton and Elias Boudinot came to his
                                            financial rescue and he received a patent in 1794 for 311,682 acres which he
                                            had actually paid for. It appears from Mrs. Symmes' statements that
                                            Boudinot by 1801 had turned against Symmes and become one of his several
                                            nemeses. Symmes was quarrelsome and impulsive, careless in financial and
                                            legal matters, and a defendant in many lawsuits. He even sold land which was
                                            not included in his patent. By the time of his death, most of his fortune
                                            had been dissipated; small wonder, when one considers his wife's
                                            statements as to his paradoxical disposition. He did not co-operate fully
                                            with Governor Arthur St. Clair. Yet he planted an important colony and its
                                            chief city, 
                                                Cincinnati
                                            . He was thrice married; by his first wife, Anna Tuttle of
                                            Southold, Long Island, he had two daughters, one of whom, Anna Cleves
                                            Symmes, became Mrs. William Henry Harrison. His second wife was Mrs. Mary
                                            Halsey of 
                                                New Jersey
                                            ; the third, Susanna Livingston, and the writer of the letter
                                            was a daughter of William Livingston, first governor of 
                                                New Jersey
                                            . "The Judge" and "Mr. S.".
                                            so often referred to in the letter are plainly Judge John Cleves Symmes. The 
                                                    New England
                                                 Historical and Genealogical Register (
                                                Boston
                                            , 1847-), XIII (1859), 137; Beverley W. Bond, Jr.,
                                            "John Cleves Symmes," Dictionary of American
                                                Biography, XVIII, 258-259.
                           
                                     for myself, but my friend—what a
                                    sad, sad time you must have of it in 
                                        Hudson
                                    , how I grieve that your time & strength should be thus consumed
                                    "by a train distracting crew" often have I thought that if you had
                                    arrived before I left the Manor, I should have remained, & we would have
                                    taken a house together, & never more been separated—for
                                    tho' this is a charming country & I have a few very good friends in
                                    it, I never can feel at home in it—I am exceedingly attached to Mrs. H.
                                    not only on account of the realtive tie, but also in consideration of her many
                                    amiable virtues, & the uniform kindness, attention, & respect she
                                    has ever shewn me, to her sweet babes I am entirely devoted; Susan Ridley would be
                                    charmed with Betsey, She is now just turned of 5, she is all meekness, &
                                    mildness, takes every body's part that she thinks injured, & is a
                                    most beautiful, elegant child, Symmes is 3, he is all turbulence, a most imperious
                                    little rogue, at the same time a very origininal [sic] fellow, in his opinion old
                                    & ugly is the sum of everything bad, when he's mad with me, he
                                    calls me old Gran '& Jane is old
                                        Dane—Lucy is 15 months, I think her a perfect beauty, but a poor
                                    afflicted babe she has ever been, she has just had 18 large boils, her disorders
                                    have made her as much trouble as 5 or 6 children—Mr. H. says I must
                                    deposit my bones here, both he & Nancy seem very unwilling I should ever
                                    return to Cin we look for the Judge some time in Novr. after the Court at 
                                        Marietta
                                    ; he has an important cause of his own to be tried this
                                    term—he promised to pass the winter at 
                                        Vincennes
                                    , & we were to return in the spring, but his movements are so
                                    uncertain there's no calculating upon them, & I should not be
                                    surprised if I receive a summons home this fall, I think his last letter looked very
                                    much like it—this house is now drawing toward a complete finish,
                                    it's time I think, being 6 years since it's foundation was
                                    laid—It gives me great pain to hear of the embarrassed state of the
                                    Judge's affairs, owing to Congress robbing him of the Land to which he had
                                    a just claim, the land that he had contracted for at 5/ the acre,8 he sold to 3 or 400 families for a dol. now that Congress has refused him a
                                    patent for the last half million, & offered it for sale at 2 dol. he is
                                    willing to refund the dol. with the interest from the time, which is just, but
                                    there's a party in the Territory determined to sacrifice him, (& I
                                    fear they will effect their wicked designs), & endeavour to establish the
                                    principle that he should pay the appreciated price of the land, 5 & 6 dol.
                                    he has been obliged to it in several instances, thus is he robbed of thousands & tens of thousands of dollars most unrighteously; while
                                    the purchasers, after having had the benefit of their farms 6 or 7 years for
                                    nothing, pay Congress 2 doll. & put the rest of Mr. S. money in their
                                    pockets—
                        Elias Boudinot has got judgment against Mr. S. for 50,000 acres of land, in the Miami
                                    purchase 15 miles on the 
                                        Ohio
                                    , the cause was 
                              
                                 8 Evidently 
                                                New York
                                             shillings, 12% cents. If they had been shillings Sterling, he
                                            could not have sold the land at a dollar an acre and come out even. 
                                                New York
                                             shillings (equal to the Spanish real) were used in computing
                                            prices until well down toward the middle of the nineteenth century. Their
                                            popularity was recognized by the Post Office Department by its having a 12%
                                            cents rate in every schedule from 1792 to 1845.
                           
                                     tried in Phil. Mr. S. employed a lawyer, (as
                                    Mr. H. tells me,) & never either fee'd him, or sent him any
                                    information on the subject, & when the cause came to tryal, there was
                                    Boudinot to tell his story & no one to contradict it—The Judge is
                                    a most inexplicable man, his attention to small things is remarkable while important
                                    ones he neglects—he has the character of a penurious man & I
                                    scarce know so extravagant a man, the its in a way peculiar to himself, he receives
                                    his interest in whatever his creditor pleases to pay him, horses, saddles, spinning
                                    wheels, watches, axes, '&c. then he distributes them among his
                                    relations, I have known him to receive 70 axes at a time & give them all
                                    away—he will not miss a bargain if he has not the least occasion for the
                                    thing offered, but give it immediately away, & if the price is too high we
                                    must go without it, let the article be ever so much wanted. Mr. S. spends a world of
                                    money & we have nothing to shew for it—Mr. Short has leased out
                                    his Plantation, (which would have been a very grateful thing to poor Maria had she
                                    lived,) he has leased his estate in 
                                        Woodford County
                                     together with negroes & stock for 7 years for the rent of 4000
                                    dollrs. per annum, & his Elkhorn mills for 1250 dol. per annum—he
                                    has reserved his dwelling house & a few acres of ground at the latter place
                                    where he makes his home—he is said to be worth at least sixty thousand
                                    pounds, '& its an increasing estate—he will be a good
                                    spec, for some body—he will never marry for love, I believe—he
                                    is a man of great talents, great business, & of a very delicate
                                    mind—I am very sorry my dr. Susan Ann declined prosecuting the french
                                    language in favor of geography, as she may not meet with a french teacher, when she
                                    wishes—I long to know how the dr. children improve, it most broke my
                                    heart to part with them—it will give me great pleasure to receive
                                    anything traced by my dr. childs little fingers, & Matilda must
                                        —9 me something to answer it—&
                                    then they must be framed in the best manner by Mr. Cumberland—of which
                                    I'll be at the expence—then sent to Mr. Samuel Meeker at Phi. to
                                    be forwarded to Cin. by some Merct. I will write my dr. sister soon, in the
                                    meanwhile give my love to her Mr. Livingston, & the dr.
                                    boys—Margaret & your little pupils have a large
                                    share—I wrote Mr. Curson by the last mail, the 9th of this month
                                    & I wish to write to Sister Jay by this mail—my letter will be a
                                    very unexpected one to Mr. Curson— Jane desires her love to her Aunt
                                    & Cousins—& also to yourself & Miss
                                    Baxter—tell our Margt. I wish her a good husband & every thing
                                    besides she wishes herself—I left at the Manor a callicoe bed spread
                                    which I beg my dr. friend to accept of, perhaps it may make a couple of curtains, as
                                    its large—With my ardent wishes for your health & happiness, I
                                    remain with unalterable esteem Yours—
                        
                                    S. Symmes—
                                
                        [On the back of the sheet, which becomes part of the outside of the folded
                                    letter, appears a postscript, though not so labeled.] The Court has given Mr. S.
                                    until Deer, to shew cause why final judgment should not be past agst him, so that I
                                    think it probable that he will be obliged to repair to Phil, after Court at 
                                        Marietta
                                    — Adieu 1 Adieu! I write this by a Spanish Gentleman from 
                                        St. Louis
                                     who dined here yesterday & is on his way to 
                                        New York
                                    —
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  9 The "wafer" seal renders the word illegible.
            
         
         
         
            R. Carlyle Buley—Pulitzer Prize Winner
            When the Indiana Daily Student reporter called on Dr. R. Carlyle Buley late Monday
                    afternoon on May 7 for information on the announcement that he had been awarded the Pulitzer Prize
                    in history, he insisted it was a mistake. Several hours later, however, he received a telegram from
                    the committee confirming the news of the reporter.
            
               The Old Northwest: Pioneer Period, 1815-1840 in two volumes was published by the
                    Indiana Historical Society as part of its contribution to the observance of the Sesquicentennial of
                    Indiana Territory in 1950. Members of the society have had an opportunity to examine these prize
                    winning books and no doubt agree that the committee made a wise choice.
            Moreover, the selection of Professor Buley, a Hoosier and alumnus of Indiana University, as a member
                    of the history faculty of Indiana University by Dr. Albert L. Kohlmeier in 1925 was also fortunate.
            It is only natural, therefore, that the history department of Indiana University should invite the
                    friends of R. C. to a dinner on June 1 to pay tribute to his achievement.
            Dr. Oscar O. Winther as master of ceremonies and brief remarks by President Herman B Wells, Mr. Eli
                    Lilly, Dean Ralph E. Cleland, and Howard H. Peckham added high lights of knowledge and merriment to
                    the occasion. The climax, however, was reached when the guest responded.
            In a number of the Indiana Magazine of History in the near future, a review of The Old Northwest will appear.
            The author, the Lilly Endowment, the Indiana Historical Society, and Indiana University are all to be
                    congratulated for their part in producing these volumes.
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Journals of the General Assembly of Indiana Territory, 1805-1815. Edited by
                    Gayle Thornbrough and Dorothy Riker, with an introduction by John D. Barnhart. Volume XXXII. Indiana
                    Historical Collections. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Bureau, 1950, pp. ix, 1106. Index, roster and sketches of members
                    of the Territorial General Assembly. $6.00.)
            This volume is principally a collection of the Journals of the Indiana General
                    Assembly which have survived from territorial days. It also includes available related documents
                    concerning sessions for which the Journals have been lost such as messages of the
                    governors, memorials, and newspaper circulars. The House Journals for 1806, 1807,
                    and 1810 could not be located, while that of the 1808 session is copied from the 
                        Vincennes
                    
                    Western Sun. All of the council Journals, except for the session
                    of 1813-1814, have disappeared. Part of the missing house and council journals may yet come to
                    light, but it is almost certain that some will never be found. The publication of this volume by the
                    Indiana Historical Bureau was "Offered in Observance of the Indiana Territory
                    Sesquicentennial 1800-1950." It was one of the least heralded of the sesquicentennial
                    observances but it will certainly be one of the most permanent.
            The story of the surviving manuscript journals is told in the preface by Howard H. Peckham, Director
                    of the Indiana Historical Bureau. "They were begun in 
                        Vincennes
                     and finished in Corydon. They were moved to 
                        Indianapolis
                     and housed in three successive capital buildings. Later some of them were lent to
                    William H. English, congressman, banker, vice-presidential candidate, president of the Indiana
                    Historical Society, and author, who was preparing a history of Indiana. When Mr. English died in
                    1896, his library passed to his son, and upon the latter's death much of the manuscript
                    material went to a nephew who gave it to the University of 
                        Chicago
                    . Among the items were found the territorial Journals, which, being Indiana state
                    archives, were returned to Indiana State Library where they now rest. The other surviving Journals
                    remained in the Office of the Secretary of State until they, too, were transferred to the State
                    Library."
            An introduction by John D. Barnhart, chairman of the  Indiana
                    University department of history, stresses the democratization of the Northwest Ordinance when
                    applied to the Indiana Territory. His thesis is that the substance of political
                        democracy was achieved in Indiana during the territorial era and although the reviewer
                    accepts this thesis he believes that Dr. Barnhart makes Governor Harrison and his friends more
                    democratic than they actually were. Harrison came from the 
                        Virginia
                     aristocracy and was originally appointed by Federalist John Adams. He exercised
                    considerable common sense in dealing with territorial leaders who soon ushered in political
                    democracy. With the advent of Jefferson and then 
                        Madison
                     to the presidency, it was absolutely essential for Governor Harrison to co-operate with
                    those who were leaders of the emerging democracy; however, the coming of popular elections and the
                    substance of universal suffrage weakened Harrison's position and brought Jennings and his
                    friends of leadership.
            The Journals will not be widely read or used but they will be invaluable to the few
                    who give serious attention to the study and writing of Indiana history. Students of seventeenth
                    century English history will find in these Journals substantial evidence of the
                    results of the political gains of Parliament over the King. They will be reminded anew that American
                    political institutions were bottomed on those of 
                        England
                    . Our territorial fathers were made more democratic by the conditions of frontier life,
                    more staunchly republican by their revolutionary heritage and were heirs to a greater extent than
                    they realized of man's struggle in modern times toward self-government. These early
                    legislators were practical men concerned with the advent of political democracy, Indian trade and
                    treaties, the acquisition of land, slavery, finances, defense, local government, separatist
                    territorial movements and related problems. They consciously directed the territorial government
                    toward the goal of statehood, with equal status in the American Union.
            The preface states that: "In transcribing the Journals for publication the original
                    spelling, capitalization, and punctuation for the most part have been maintained; the paragraphing
                    has been altered somewhat to make it conform to a uniform pattern throughout the volume. The ends of
                    the manuscript pages are indicated by asterisks. Raised letters have not been reproduced."
                    The spelling, capitalization, punctuation,  and paragraphing are
                    part of the original atmosphere and content, and it is unfortunate that such has not been
                    consistently followed or indicated. Despite this criticism even greater emphasis should be given to
                    the editorial work of Misses Dorothy Riker and Gayle Thornbrough. They have obviously devoted
                    innumerable hours to the tedious and wearisome process of assembling and editing the Journals and other documents. The bibliographical and explanatory notes are very helpful;
                    the biographical sketches are useful; and the index is substantial. These aids are more
                    comprehensive and helpful than frequently found in similar volumes. The preservation and publication
                    of such documentary materials is one of the most important functions of the Indiana Historical
                    Bureau.
            
                    Indiana University Donald F. Carmony
                
         
         
            
               A Bibliography of Booth Tarkington, 1869-1946. By Dorothy Ritter Russo and
                    Thelma L. Sullivan. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1949, pp. xix, 303. Illustrations, index, and frontispiece
                    portrait of Booth Tarkington.)
            Booth Tarkington was probably best known as a novelist. Two of his novels, The
                        Magnificent Ambersons in 1918 and Alice Adams in 1921, won Pulitzer
                    Prizes. After the publication of Presenting Lily Mars, he was awarded the Gold
                    Medal for fiction in 1933 by the National Institute of Arts and Letters. Theatergoers, however, also
                    remember him fondly as the author of The Man From Home, Clarence, The Intimate
                        Strangers.
            
            This bibliography is a revelation of the great extent of his writings, and the voluminousness of his
                    deep and affectionate probing into and depiction of the American Scene.
            In both plays and novels he was particularly concerned with human beings. His many friendships, among
                    those in all walks of life, were attributed by Erwin Panofsky to his unique insight into human
                    nature: "Instead of respecting a man because he understands his convictions,"
                    Panofsky wrote, "Booth Tarkington respects a conviction, no matter how different from his
                    own, because he understands the man."
            The volume, a handsome example of book-making, is divided  into
                    four sections. Under the heading of "First Editions" are listed books, ephemera,
                    and contributions, all arranged in chronological order. These cover over two hundred pages.
            The author stated that small space was given to the second section, "Reprint
                    Editions," because so many of the various editions and reprints had been "briefly
                    mentioned with the collations of their first editions."
            In the third section are books, pamphlets, and leaflets about Tarkington arranged in alphabetical
                    order by author. Periodicals also fall within this category.
            The last section is devoted to periodicals and newspapers containing first appearances.
            The book, excellently indexed, is a boon to the thousands of booklovers who already have collected
                    and long will continue to collect Booth Tarkington's ever enjoyable works, from Monsieur Beaucaire and The Gentleman From Indiana to Kate Fennigate and Image of Josephine.
            
            This is the third publication of the committee on bibliography of the Indiana Historical Society,
                    made possible by the Lilly Endowment, Inc. and the close personal interest of Josiah K. Lilly, Jr.,
                    chairman of the committee, in the works of Booth Tarkington.
            
                    Kennebunkport, Maine Kenneth Roberts
                
         
         
            
               James Harrod of 
                            Kentucky
                        . By Kathryn Harrod Mason. (
                        Baton Rouge
                    : 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press, 1951, pp. 266. Critical essay on authorities, appendix, index,
                    maps, illustrations. $4.00.)
            The reviewer came to the writing of this notice in a state of considerable mental perturbation. He
                    had been told that 
                        Nashville
                     was on the Tennessee River (p. 31), that the mouth of the 
                        Ohio
                     was three miles west of 
                        Kaskaskia
                     (p. 149), that the Louisa was the northern boundary of the Fort Stanwix cession (p. 45,
                    n. 7), that John Floyd was the founder of St. Asaph's (p. 81), and that the original
                            
                  Fayette County, Kentucky
               , lay around Boonesborough. He had been irked by the
                    author's habit of referring to Harrod, 
                        Boone
                    , and Logan as Jim, Daniel, and Ben and had been apprehensive until the last page that
                    Clark would be called Georgie. He had  been disturbed by a map
                    (between pages 140 and 141) which misspelled Bryans and showed the Warriors Path grotesquely awry.
                    And he had been exasperated by footnotes wrong (as p. 40, n. 68), footnotes ambiguous (as p. 58, n.
                    23), and footnotes downright incomprehensible (as p. 101, n. 2).
            But all these transgressions he was willing to overlook in his pleasure at having at last a book
                    about James Harrod, telling his story from the beginning of his life to its conjectural end. Until
                    this book appeared one knew little about Harrod beyond the one fact that he was the founder of
                    Harrodstown, the first (if we except Gist's in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    ) settlement west of the mountains. It is clear after reading the book that this was
                    Harrod's outstanding achievement but it is enough to entitle him to a biography and to our
                    long remembrance. In the course of telling the story of Harrod the author could not avoid telling a
                    goodly part of the story of pioneer 
                        Kentucky
                    . We cannot expect, however, that a filial biography of Harrod would render due justice
                    to 
                        Boone
                    , Kenton, and Logan; neither can we expect a biography of a Harrodsburg man to concede
                    the importance of Boonesborough or treat Transylvania with dispassion. Offsetting these shortcomings
                    is the author's honesty in conceding Harrod's connivance with the land
                    speculators, in revealing the gossip about his wife, and in acknowledging the mystery of his death.
            The book is written from an extensive bibliography of which the most important item is the Draper
                    Collection. The only thing comparable to this is the Circuit Court Records of the 
                        Kentucky
                     counties, and that seems to have been used sparingly. The reading of these records,
                    however, is in itself the work of a lifetime, and it is doubtful if their use would have added
                    significance, although they might have added interest, to the narrative.
            
               
                  
                            Florida
                         State University R. S. Cotterill
         
         
            
               Confederate Leaders in the New South. By William B. Hesseltine. (
                        Baton Rouge
                    : 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press, 1950, pp. xi, 147. $2.50.)
            The three essays included in this small volume were presented at 
                        Louisiana
                     State University in 1949 forming another  group in
                    the well-known series of Walter Lynwood Fleming Lectures in Southern History. This study of the
                    activities and accomplishments of the leaders of the shortlived Confederate States of America, in
                    the period following 1865, is interesting and valuable. After reading Dr. Hesseltine's
                    essays, one wonders what a similar treatise dealing with Federal leaders who labored during the
                    period succeeding the Civil War under much less discouraging conditions might reveal.
            In the course of his essays, the author makes it clear that the men who "had led the
                    Confederacy were still the leaders of the Southern people." The truth of this statement is
                    demonstrated by tracing the after-war careers of numerous individuals and through a more general
                    treatment of their part in the creation of a new South. The fact that there was confusion and
                    division among Confederate leaders during the war years is fully accepted, and considerable
                    attention is given to the confusion and division that prevailed among the leaders of the
                    "lost cause" in the new age. The differences in outlook displayed by Robert E. Lee
                    and Jefferson Davis are stressed. This adds a fascinating touch to the lectures, but the high value
                    of the study lies in the patient examination of the parts played by civil and military participants
                    in the slow process of rebuilding the shattered South. The second lecture which is devoted largely
                    to the work of men of the Confederacy in the field of education during the remainder of their lives
                    includes a large amount of new material. In the third lecture, dealing with changing economic
                    conditions as well as with economic reconstruction, the author has grappled with his most difficult
                    problems. This phase of the subject was, of course, interlaced with politics.
            Readers will find these new essays in Southern history absorbing and instructive. The failure of the
                    South to achieve independence could not alter the fact that the effort to form the Confederacy was a
                    big undertaking. Circumstances made it necessary for nearly all of the middle-aged and younger
                    Confederate leaders to spend many years in the South after 
                        Appomattox
                    . It is greatly to their credit that they performed so well in the midst of discouraging
                    conditions. It is true that the industrialization of the North had not gone very far by 1861, and
                    that there were evidences of the coming of a new South before the four years of military conflict.
                    In other  words, the leaders of the post-bellum South were aided
                    by the continuing economic advance of the North and by the fact that some steps in the creation of a
                    different South were being taken before the formation of the Confederacy. It should also be
                    remembered that some of the evils of industrialism that Southerners felt the effects of, and cried
                    out against before 1861, during the war years and later, were not peculiar to the North. A fast
                    changing economic system accompanied by prosperity and the rapid accumulation of capital plus the
                    might that inheres in such developments will profoundly influence any area to which it may
                    come—even the New South.
            
               
                        
                     Selma, Alabama
                  
                     William O. Lynch
         
         
            
               The Old Oregon Country: A History of Frontier Trade, Transportation, and Travel.
                    By Oscar Osburn Winther. (
                  Stanford, California
               : 
                        Stanford
                     University Press, 1950, pp. xvi, 348. Maps, illustrations, bibliography, and index.
                    $7.50.)
            Books dealing with regions, their lakes, rivers, mountains, folklore, have been appearing steadily.
                    This effort to dissect America's past by means of a close examination of its separate parts
                    is a commendable one, for the works of synthesis which result are proving exceedingly useful to the
                    student of history and enlightening to the general reader.
            In this work, Professor Winther is concerned with the economic beginnings of the old 
                        Oregon
                     country as is indicated by its subtitle; but the scope of the book is wider than is
                    suggested by the phrase, "Trade, Transportation, and Travel." It is, in fact, a
                    survey of the region's development during its formative period. The author describes the
                    primitive state of the country before the invasion by white men, and explains its attraction to
                    European nations and the 
                        United States
                     in terms of the link which is provided in the lucrative 
                        China
                     trade.
            The Northwest Company was the first organization in the area. While exploiting the fur-bearing
                    resources, its men explored and helped to map out the region. Then came the Hudson's Bay
                    Company, which, in the Northwest was virtually synonymous with the name of John McLaughlin, its
                    chief  factor. The story continues with the Yankee penetrations,
                    made possible by explorers like Captain Gray and fur merchants like John Jacob Astor; the decline of
                    the fur trade; the coming of American missionaries; the great tide of settlers who hacked out trails
                    across a continent. Communities required organized means of transportation and all phases and stages
                    are dealt with: pack trains, stage coaches, paddle wheels, steamships, and finally railroads.
            Professor Winther has done a first-class job. He has treated his subject with exhaustive thoroughness
                    and a careful regard for fact and detail. Government documents, manuscripts, fugitive pamphlet
                    literature, periodicals, books, and newspapers have all been drawn upon, and it is apparent that the
                    research centers of the west coast have been combed to obtain the maximum authenticity and provide
                    originality for his work.
            One need not endorse the excessive claim of the publisher that "here the whole story of
                    trade and travel in the region is told for the first time" to agree that here is a
                    comprehensive and skillful treatment of the subject. A little more space devoted to the life and
                    activities of the people, the inclusion of more anecdotal material would have enlivened the book and
                    perhaps the style.
            Professor Winther's work on economic aspects of the Pacific Northwest are well known to
                    those who have followed the articles in the 
                  
                            Oregon
                         Historical Quarterly, the Pacific Northwest Quarterly, and
                    the Pacific Historical Review. Now this volume adds to our knowledge of those
                    aspects.
            The 
                        Stanford
                     University Press is to be congratulated on a most attractive publication. The format
                    and the typography are excellent and do credit to the imagination and enterprise of academic
                    publishing houses.
            
                    The University of 
                            Glasgow
                        
               
                    
                        Sidney
                        Warren
                    
                
         
         
            
               Here They Once Stood: The Tragic End of the Apalachee Missions. By Mark F. Boyd,
                    Hale G. Smith, and John W. Griffin. (
                        Gainesville
                    : University of 
                        Florida
                     Press, 1951, pp. 189. Appendix, index, bibliography, and illustrations.
                    $3.50.)
            On the surface, Here They Once Stood is a detailed bit  of 
                        Florida
                     history brought into focus for a minute and of local interest and importance. The book
                    treats the most important decade and a half (1693-1708) of the broader period of Franciscan 
                        Florida
                    . It builds up to 1704 and the raid of James Moore of 
                        South Carolina
                     against the Spanish missions in 
                        Florida
                     and centers its attention specifically on one of these establishments, the San Luis
                    mission. Historically this raid of Colonel Moore started the decline of a prosperous and promising
                    group of thirty-four Franciscan missions in the area between St. Augustine (
                        Florida
                    ) and St. Catherine's Island (
                        Georgia
                    ). I believe the book justifies itself on the basis of this local history alone, aside
                    from other considerations.
            I suggest that there are several aspects of broad importance that grow out of the local and I should
                    like to mention three of them: 1) The lack of tangible ruins and evidence of Franciscan missionary
                    endeavor in 
                        Florida
                     should not blind us to Spanish activity in that general area. Simply because Franciscan
                    missions remain as splendid and imposing evidence of their labor in 
                        California
                     but have completely disappeared in 
                        Florida
                     we must not lose our sense of historical proportions and dismiss the activity in 
                        Florida
                     the while remembering that in 
                        California
                    . The Franciscans were not exclusively "Californianos." We may rejoice
                    with the preservation in the southwest but let us always bear in mind the whole picture. There is a
                    far greater debt to 
                        Spain
                     in our southeast than merely the founding of St. Augustine, the oldest settlement in
                    continental 
                        United States
                    . I believe Here They Once Stood will help dispel some of the
                    confusion suggested above. 2) The great impact of Anglo-Saxon culture on present-day 
                        United States
                     must not completely push out from our histories the fact that the Spanish activities,
                    settlements, Indian relations, etc., antedate it by a comfortable span of years. That this Spanish
                    heritage is more obvious in 
                        California
                     and the southwest is in itself justification for monographical works such as Here They Once Stood. Besides making the whole more truthful the proper
                    recognition of Spanish penetration will make the Anglo-Saxon emergence the more glorious rather than
                    dim it. How can the English colony of 
                        Georgia
                    , for example, be appreciated and understood if one fails to consider its
                    "buffer" value against the Spanish in 
                        Florida
                    ? I fear that all too often this point  is missed or
                    grossly underestimated. 3) One other broad consideration I would like to mention is inter-department
                    or inter-discipline co-operation in studies of this sort. History and archaeology (in this case) can
                    be mutually helpful in a dignified way with neither "sinking" to the handmaiden
                    role.
            The book as written would be attractive to one already interested in this narrow subject matter.
                    However, to reach a wider audience the authors' excessive use of direct quotations is a
                    handicap. It makes for jerky rather than smooth continuity and the average reader might too easily
                    become disassociated.
            In connection with point three above, it might be pointed out that the attractive aspects of
                    co-operation between history and archaeology are somewhat offset by questionable ones. The historian
                    might easily be a bit irked by the details of digging trenches to locate old moats, etc.
                    Correspondingly, the dedicated archaeologist might see but little sense in or justification for the
                    time and effort expended on the historical material. Happily, I should say, the greatest danger of
                    this has been avoided in Here They Once Stood by the authors separating the
                    material so that they evaluate and describe historically for the first ninety-five pages and then
                    excavate with a vengeance for the additional sixty pages.
            From a scholar's point of view the copious use of footnotes and sources is a delight. The
                    holy (or unholy) reverence for sources receives more than its pound of flesh. There is virtually
                    nothing but source materials and those translated from the Spanish or handed down orally by the
                    Indians.
            A word should be said for the very attractive format and binding. If this is typical of the care
                    taken by the University of 
                        Florida
                     Press, it should have a period of growth ahead of it.
            I wish I might be right in saying that Here They Once Stood represents a trend in
                    worthy attention and interest being bestowed on "local history." It is from the
                    details of the local that the bigger scene and outlines must come. An incident in 
                        Florida
                     with proper treatment becomes a significant detail in the 
                        United States
                    . Other states might well emulate and encourage.
            
               University of 
                            Oregon
                        
                John F. Weir
         
         
         
            
               The Diary of Sylas Neville, 1767-1788. Edited by Basil Cozens-Hardy.
                            (
                  London, New
                            York, Toronto
               : 
                        Oxford
                     University Press, 1950, pp. xvi, 357. Illustrations, index, and frontispiece portrait
                    of Sylas Neville. $4.00.)
            There can be little doubt that Mr. Basil Cozens-Hardy has rescued Dr. Sylas Neville (1741-1840) from
                    obscurity, and that once more a man destined apparently in his own times "to dumb
                    Forgetfulness a prey" has through a diary of which he in part was ashamed earned for
                    himself a place in history. Although Sylas Neville cannot be considered as "a village
                    Hampden" or "some mute inglorious 
                        Milton
                    " raised to "a place of fame and elegy" by a twentieth
                    century Thomas Gray, his history will be read "in a nation's eyes."
                    Henceforth all serious students of the broader social and cultural aspects of eighteenth century 
                        England
                     will be forced to consult this book along with the diary of James Woodforde, that
                    magnificent country parson, and the journal of James Boswell, biographer of Sam Johnson and 
                        London
                     clubman. With the latter the Neville diary has much in common. Neville and Boswell both
                    had Scottish connections, were born within a year of each other, kept daybooks covering certain
                    years in the first decade of the reign of George III, and had printed editions of their long lost
                    manuscripts appear in 1950. The publishing of Boswell's 
                  
                            London
                         Journal by McGraw-Hill and The Diary of Sylas Neville by the 
                        Oxford
                     University Press are events of great significance to all interested in eighteenth
                    century 
                        England
                    .
            From the pages of the latter come the intimate thoughts and observations of a pronounced Whig,
                    professional sponger, man about town, squire, medical student, traveler, and physician. Born perhaps
                    under the bar sinister, Neville during the period covered by his diary spent one year in 
                        London
                    , two years at Scratby near Yarmouth where he attempted to play the role of a squire,
                    thirteen years at 
                        Edinburgh
                     and elsewhere studying to be a doctor, and five years at Norwich indifferently
                    practicing medicine. It was at the latter place he died in 1840, but there is no indication that he
                    continued his diary after 1788. Perhaps he was too busy begging money from his friends to write, for
                    he was always in bad financial circumstances. In between times he traveled extensively and drifted
                    through life. As Mr. Cozens-Hardy  states, "It is sad
                    to reflect that a man of such culture and ability should have passed through this world without
                    adding anything to its progress and wealth" (p. xiv). The editor might have added that
                    Neville, read in many things and wise in none, had an inflated ego and caddish temperment which was
                    as much to blame for his ill success in life as were the various female connections with which he
                    burdened himself (p. xii).
            Neville the man is a fascinating study and as such the publication of this would be worth while. The
                    book is also living history, and delightfully records the views of a left wing Whig during the reign
                    of George III. Neville was ready to believe every sort of rumor against those with whom he disagreed
                    politically, and time and time again that little republican heart of his colored his reason and
                    warped his judgment. To him Grenville was "an arch-Tory," Bute, the
                    "paramour of George's mother" who was planning to make himself King,
                    Dundee, "an arch-persecutor," Monck, "a traitor," Fox,
                    "that arch-patriot Secretary," etc. His own status led him to oppose British laws
                    of primogeniture, and his purse lined him up against coddling the poor. As he grew older he tempered
                    his republicanism (p. xiii) which was more intellectual than anything else. He would have had much
                    in common with modern "parlor pinks" and "cocktail party reds"
                    who love the masses in general but not in the particular. Once after inviting all newly married
                    couples in the neighborhood to tea, Neville commented, "Every person ought to be civil to
                    those in inferior rank" (p. 184). On all January 30's he ate calves head to
                    signify he approved that the men of the Commonwealth had executed Charles I, and he took great
                    delight in such democratic gestures.
            Neville, little, mean, filled with a sense of his own importance, was a hypocrite. His
                    self-righteousness was at times nauseous. "Mrs. Willoughby said to me 'You are
                    able to seduce any woman' Heaven forbid that I should seduce any woman from her
                    virtue" (p. 67). At the time of writing he was preparing for his mistress to come live with
                    him. Shortly thereafter he argued with her over the way she was rearing her child by another affair
                    and moaned: "How miserable is the situation of a bachelor exposed to all the bad humours of
                    low life, deprived of those real joys which a virtuous & well-educated wife afford"
                    (pp. 85-86). He broke with a fellow  student, Thomas Baker, who
                    dared suggest that he treat his mistress better, and he made nasty comments about the morals of
                    Baker's mistress. He thundered forth against newspapers allowing men to advertise for women
                        companions—Saturday Review of Literature, take heed! Yet he could
                    marry off his beloved Sally to his man servant for purposes of keeping up appearances of morality
                    with the neighbors. The diary is loaded with moral strictures, but that nasty little mind of his
                    could not free itself from thoughts of the opposite sex. Some events and places made more lasting
                    impressions because of the pretty ladies present than for any other reason. In some ways
                    Boswell's hyper-animal spirits are refreshing when compared with Neville's
                    freudian drives. His life was a series of attempts to enjoy the fruits of matrimony without its
                    burdens and responsibilities.
            Neville consistently informed his diary that people considered him the finest horseman they had seen
                    and that he had great prowess on skates and with women. There seems little doubt that he
                    was—if he so desired—a witty and interesting conversationalist, but he reminds
                    us that person after person was not fit to talk to him. Scholars might tire of his boasting about
                    his erudition, but graduate students will be shocked to learn that he told college authorities that
                    his dissertation was his own work, but that he could not say the same for some of the classmates.
                    Nevertheless, he was keen and observing and a man of varied tastes. He could be interested in
                    everything from politics to nature, from industrial development in the west of 
                        England
                     to medical science in 
                        Holland
                    . Unlike so many diaries, Neville's is not centered in any one locale, and will
                    be of great importance to any understanding of life outside 
                        London
                     in eighteenth century 
                        England
                    . The editor omitted publishing seven volumes covering a Continental tour, and it is to
                    be hoped that those volumes will be published at some future date.
            Three examples from the diary itself will do more than anything else to show Neville's style
                    and his ability. On Garrick playing Hamlet he wrote: "The expression in his features, his
                    eyes particularly, surpass anything I ever saw. He is a little man, but handsome and full of that
                    fire which makes the stronger, and of the softness natural to the tender passions" (p. 99).
                    While traveling he recorded the following: "Left Dumbarton at 6 o'cl. &
                    passing through a pleasant  highland country soon came in sight
                    of the celebrated Lake, the principle object of our journey, & indeed a fine one: The vast
                    expanse of water with its islands & surrounding mountains present a picture of the grand
                    & beautiful not to be described. Many of the islands are covered with verdure &
                    small trees which form a fine contrast to the black and barren mountains on each side" (p.
                    209). "From 
                        Lancaster
                     to Garstang … saw many Lancashire witches, i.e. pretty girls, on the road
                    since we have been in this country, where the women are indeed remarkable handsome. Had a most
                    comfortable supper at Gardner's (The Royal Oak) Garstang which is one of the best (at least
                    most agreable) houses upon the road—everything good—people obliging etc. We
                    could not help taking notice of a most elegant Necessary, in which one might drink tea with more
                    comfort than in a Scotch parlour; a tank of water directly under the seats keeps everything
                    perfectly clean and sweet" (p. 250-251).
            The transcribing of the diary offered some difficulties for the editor because Neville used code,
                    Italian, and Aldridge shorthand to record things he wished kept quiet. Mr. Cozens-Hardy has made
                    some interpretations, but he has also excluded material which was too "indelicate to be
                    printed" (p. xv). He is to be congratulated for the former action, and condemned for the
                    latter. The editing job is not as thorough as that performed by Professor Pottle on
                    Boswell's 
                  
                            London
                         Journal, and Mr. Cozens-Hardy's treatment of the mechanics of
                    scholarship leaves much to be desired. He points out in his introduction, "There is an
                    admitted danger of over-footnoting, but I must bear in mind the possibility that this work may find
                    its way into the hands of some who are unfamiliar with even the major characters in English history
                    and with 
                        London
                     topography" (p. xvi). Admittedly he has a point, but one wonders why many
                    obscure items have no explanation while common words such as "post-chaise" and
                    "phaeton" draw a footnote even though they can be found defined in any adequate
                    dictionary. An item on page 110 mentions a Dr. John Jebb, Lord Oxford, and Swift, with the latter
                    receiving a note and not the other two. Surely the "unfamiliar" would be apt to
                    know more about Swift than the others. Similar examples can be cited. Not always does the note
                    appear when the item is mentioned in the text for the first time. Neither in the notes nor in the
                    index does the  reader discover who the king of 
                        Denmark
                     was, but there is an explanation of a classical allusion made by Neville about
                    Christian VII. Perhaps by a series of brief biographical sketches at the beginning of the book and
                    by full index items with explanatory phrases Mr. Cozens-Hardy might have solved his footnoting
                    problems as did Professor Pottle.
            There are items when it appears that Mr. Cozens-Hardy is woefully lacking in an overall knowledge of
                    the period, or at least in his bibliography. To use Lord Brougham's dated account of Pitt
                    and the pension furor instead of the more recent studies by Brian Tunstall and the late Basil
                    Williams fits the editor's text with Neville's Whig ideas, but leaves the
                    erroneous impression that Pitt after taking pension and peerage was finished politically. In reality
                    his illness was more responsible for his temporary political eclipse than either peerage or pension.
                    The note on Grenville (p. 28) is stated in such a way that one wonders if Mr. Cozens-Hardy thought
                    that the Stamp Act prime minister was a Tory. Often the thought occurs to this reviewer that if the
                    editor knew something about an item or if the person was in the Dictionary of National
                        Biography, it was annotated. If not, no matter how obscure it might be, it was ignored.
            Whatever the minor editorial shortcoming, the discovery of the manuscript, the transcribing, and the
                    printing of the Diary of Sylas Neville is a real historical contribution. American
                    readers will be gratified by Neville's great sympathy for the American colonies during the
                    American Revolution and will be rewarded by the understanding of a man and his era as is afforded by
                    this book. Mr. Cozens-Hardy and the 
                        Oxford
                     University Press are to be most highly congratulated for bringing forth a work rich in
                    history and in entertainment, and it is to be hoped that we will be able to hear more about Dr.
                    Neville, either through the publishing of those volumes treating his Continental tour or by an
                    edition of the letters which the editor used while preparing the diary for publication. May we ask,
                    however, that censorship and deletions be avoided and that more attention be paid to the mechanics
                    of editing. As a single book of historical information, the Diary of Sylas Neville
                    is every bit as important as the more highly publicized and ballyhooed first volume of the 
                  
                            London
                         Journal by James Boswell.
            
               Indiana University John J. Murray
         
         
         
            
               Napoleonic Propaganda. By Robert B. Holtman. (
                        Baton Rouge
                    : 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press, 1950, pp. xv, 272. Bibliography and index. $4.00.)
            A characteristic aspect of the politics of the last century has been the increasing necessity for any
                    kind of government to be a government by consent. Open absolutism, contemptuously relegating the
                    masses of the people to a negligible status, has virtually disappeared. Whether a government be a
                    dynamic totalitarian dictatorship whipping up its subjects to the emotional fervor necessary for the
                    accomplishment of the tasks laid upon them, or a reactionary regime conducted in the exclusive
                    interest of certain privileged groups, it must still try to persuade the people that it has their
                    interests at heart. Even democratic states are becoming to an ever greater extent laboratories for
                    ruthless political propaganda. In their more dangerous aspects, modern propaganda methods and
                    devices—and I do not mean only those originating in the Marxist bloc of
                    countries—manifestly threaten the intellectual integrity of the citizen and the freedom
                    of speech and judgment without which liberal civilization cannot survive.
            As the first popular dictator of modern times, Emperor Napoleon I bears a large share of the
                    responsibility for originating this monstrous thing called modern political propaganda. He was well
                    aware of the need to win and hold popular support. He developed considerable skill in cajoling,
                    exhorting, explaining, vilifying, misleading, and, occasionally, enlightening. As Professor Holtman
                    says (p. 246): "Why … was Napoleon's propaganda activity important?
                    Because he made two real contributions to the development of propaganda. He was the first sovereign
                    to talk to his subjects directly and frequently, partly through mediums such as the bulletins and
                    orders of the day, which he was the first to exploit; and in his utilization of the machinery of
                    government, he took a pioneering step towards systematic official propaganda activity of the type we
                    know today. In these two momentous categories Napoleon stands as the first modern
                    propagandist."
            Familiar with modern studies of propaganda techniques and characteristics in general, Professor
                    Holtman has worked through a vast quantity of contemporary publications, memoirs, and secondary
                    works, to emerge with a clear presentation of the method and content of Napoleonic propaganda.  His critical "Essay on Authorities" and the
                    abundant, detailed footnotes indicate the impressive scope of his research. This work will be very
                    valuable to the student of the Napoleonic period. It will also be useful reading for the thoughtful
                    person who wishes to trace the origin of the frightening modern art of misrepresentation.
            
               Indiana University C. Leonard Lundin
         
         
         
            Genealogy
            The Story of an Old-Time Hoosier
            Contributed by Mrs. W. D. Newsom∗
            Rachel Harness Whitman, wife of Matthew Rogers Luce, on August 23, 1916, wrote an account for her
                    grandchildren of the journey which the Luce family made to 
                        Texas
                     in 1849. Her father-in-law had decided to make the trip by water and so on October 1,
                    1849, the Luce family of ten started out from 
                        Newburgh
                    , Indiana, on the Ohio River. At the first town in 
                        Texas
                    , which was Greenville, they met a family from 
                        Evansville
                    , Indiana. After a short stay with these Hoosiers, they went on to Seguin where they
                    arrived on March 4, 1850. For the summer the Luce family moved to a small colony on the Cibolo River
                    and in the fall settled at 
                  Lockhart, Texas
               .
            
                    In the year of 1849 quite a number of citizens of 
                            Warrick County
                        , Indiana, made up their minds to move to 
                            Texas
                        , and as my father-in-law, Abner Luce, Sr., had visited 
                            Texas
                         twice to look over the country to see if it would do to move to, of course they all
                        came to him, and as he was delighted with the country they all sold out to come in that year. A
                        long train of wagons started with banners up for 
                            Texas
                        .
                    My father-in-law could not get off till later and was coming by water, the leaders of this crowd
                        agreed to meet at 
                     Seguin, Texas
                  . They begged Father Luce to send all the ladies
                        with them but he would not agree to it, and he regretted very much before we got here that he
                        had not consented to it.
                    On the first of October 1849 we all pushed out from 
                            Newburgh
                        , Indiana, on the Ohio River. There were no immigrants in the
                        crowd, just Father Luce and his family consisting of his sons, Matthew R., Sam, Frank and David,
                        all grown, and 
                            Lafayette
                        , twelve years old—and the ladies were myself, my mother-in-law, and
                        Misses Elizabeth and Ariminta Luce.
                    As Father had three what we called flat bottomed boats he hired several hands to come with us. We
                        had one colored servant. I had one baby, who is now Mrs. A. A. Ellison of 
                     San Antonio, Texas
                  . She and myself are the only living ones of our crowd that left for 
                            Texas
                        .
                    Father and sons had one boat load of livestock and produce. When we went down to 
                            New Orleans
                         to sell it he rented a field to turn his horses into and left us at a place called
                        Gainslanding, several miles below the mouth of Red River. He had bought about one hundred head
                        of the finest horses he could find on which he lost money. He thought he would fill this country
                        with fine horses but the people preferred their 
                            Texas
                         ponies and there was no sale for fine horses.
                    
                  
                     ∗ Mrs. W. D. Newsom of 
                        Lockhart, Texas
                     ,
                            is a granddaughter of Matthew Rogers Luce and Rachel Harness (Whitman) Luce.
               
                    
                    Father Luce made the town of 
                            Newburgh
                        , Indiana. In early times he settled there and the place was called Sprinklesburg.
                        Father laid off a new town and called it 
                            Newburgh
                        . He was a leading citizen of that place and when the news went round that we were
                        going to start for 
                            Texas
                        , many were the friends and kin folks to see us off. I think every one near there
                        was on the bank of the Ohio River to wave us a farewell. We could see for
                        three miles then the river made a turn and they were still standing there. It looked like a
                        white cloud, waving a last farewell.
                    We had a pleasant trip down the Ohio River and down the
                            Mississippi River. Sometimes steamboats knew who we were and would come
                        near to wave us goodbye. As well as I remember, before we stopped at Gainslanding they paid off
                        three Captains, one hundred dollars apiece, and they took a steamboat and went back.
                    Father Luce took two hands and David and went on down with the stock boat and we lived in our
                        boat for six weeks. There were rich people there and the old planters were acquainted with
                        Father and he told them he left us in their care. We certainly had a gay time. I saw more
                        champaign drunk than I ever did before, most too much. Some of their cakes were baked in 
                            New York
                        . We went to a party nearly every night and there I did my last dancing. My husband
                        did not dance but he would hold the baby and let me dance. A lady said : "I know why
                        your husband is so kind to you. He knows he is taking you where you will never see anything but
                        Indians."
                    Well, Father came back. He took the horses and put them back in the boat then tied the boat to
                        our boat and hired a steamboat back to the mouth of Red River, as flatboats do not run up
                        stream. When we got to the mouth of Red River they took two of the horses out of the boat and as
                        the river had a levee on each side and a flat road on top, they tied our boat and the
                        horses' boat together, put a horse on each levee and tied them to our boats with ropes
                        and we started up stream. We traveled fast as the horses were wanting out. They fairly ran and
                        we went a little faster than we liked but each horse had a young man to ride on his back to keep
                        him from going too fast. We went back that way until we got to Bayou Lafouch, then they put
                        their horses in the boats again, and all the men got on the boats with spikes to keep us from
                        striking shore, and started down that Bayou like a hericane. The river was very high and running
                        swiftly and the people along the shore did not know what it meant. The hired men said that it
                        was the most dangerous piece of work they had ever seen.
                    We got to a big plantation in 
                            Louisiana
                         where there was what was called a 
                            Texas
                         Road. Father and sons had prepared for our trip on land by bringing along four
                        wagons that had never been put together. One was a four horse wagon and one buggy with double
                        covers and new harness, and everything new right from the shop. They took the wagons off the
                        boats and it took the men quite a while to put them all up, to put on the bows and covers which
                        were made in 
                            New York
                        . They were made so that not a drop of rain could get in. The people said they had
                        never seen such a turn out before. It was a pretty, warm afternoon when they got everything
                        ready to start. They concluded to go out as far as they could that evening to see how the horses
                        would go. They went pitching.  The four horse wagon was the
                        baggage wagon, it had our tent in it. We got out eight or ten miles and put up our tent for the
                        night, for the men to sleep in. The ladies slept in the wagons. When we got up the next morning
                        it was raining and it rained for twenty-one days. I do not mean all the time, but showers every
                        day.
                    We were in the pine woods and had to stay in the road or we would mire up. We finally got to the
                        Sabine River and each one wanted to be the first one to cross and say they were the first to be
                        in 
                            Texas
                        .
                    The Sabine was high. All the bottoms were covered with water. We had to be ferried five miles;
                        that is, we got into the ferry boat and went down stream five miles, then landed. As the ferry
                        boat could only carry one boat load at a time, and as it took a day for each trip, we were there
                        for several days. The horses had to be ferried over, too. It all took time. After we got over we
                        were in a wilderness. A man came to our tent and said he could save us forty miles of travel. He
                        had a private way which he sold to Father and which we afterwards found was the worst way. It
                        was a foolish bargain. We were well fixed for travel and the forty miles around were good roads,
                        the one we took was too low and poor.
                    The first town we saw in 
                            Texas
                         was Greenville. There we met a family from 
                            Evansville
                        , Indiana. The man was a dentist and we stayed there to let him fix some of our
                        teeth. We crossed the Brazos River at 
                            Huntsville
                        . After we got out of the Pine Woods we had a pleasant drive. We often spoke of our
                        friends that started before we did and wondered how many we would see when we got to Seguin
                        where we were to meet agreeable to promise. We had never heard from them or they from us, and on
                        the fourth day of March 1850 we drove into Seguin and to our sorrow found but few of the crowd
                        to welcome us. They were so happy to see us. They were afraid we had been lost. So many of their
                        party had dropped out on the way, some at one place and some at another. The families we met
                        there were J.J. Thornton, George Day, Horace Neely, a Mr. Houchens, and two Nortons, and there
                        might have been others but these are all I remember. They told us about a pleasant trip they
                        had. They came through Indian Territory and were delighted here.
                    We moved to a small colony on the Cibolo River for the summer. We found nice people there. It was
                        about eighteen miles from San Antonio where we had left word for our mail to be sent. So the
                        next thing was to hear from the folks at home. No one could go alone on account of the Indians,
                        but a company was soon made up and went and brought back so much mail. The Postman had been told
                        to keep our mail till we called for it.
                    I am writing this for my grand children, and if I were a good writer I would like to write them a
                        book on the same subject but as this is the best I can do, will stop. I forgot to tell that when
                        we were at Gainslanding, Father took our furniture and household things to 
                            New Orleans
                         and shipped them across the Gulf to Indianola. It was late in summer when we got
                        them, some were lost that we never got. It was foolish for us to have shipped so much. I had a
                        hundred  dollar parlor stove that was ruined before we got a
                        cabin to put it in, but our carpets and such things were useful. My nicest carpet I used for a
                        partition in the first house I lived in. Father Luce knew we were bringing too much but he was
                        afraid to tell us for fear we all would not come. He would say: "Bring all you want,
                        and I will pay the freight."
                    Well, in the fall of 1850 we moved to 
                     Lockhart,
                                Texas
                  , and I have lived here
                        continuously ever since. Some of the colony moved here too and were our dear neighbors. Of
                        course all the old ones have passed away, but some of their grand children live here yet and
                        feel near to me. I forgot to mention that Father Luce had a sister who came to Gainslanding with
                        us. She said she could not bear to see us leave so she took her son, Thomas, who was quite a
                        handsome young man and gay. Aunt Hettie Everton was very pious. She made them tie up the boats
                        on Sundays, and she would call all into the boats and have prayers, much to the annoyance of the
                        three Captains. She wanted singing, but as there were no singers in the crowd but the Captains
                        and myself, and as the Captains were mad to have to stop on Sunday, we did not have music. This
                        Thomas Everton in after years moved to 
                            Texas
                        , and died a few years ago in Luling, 
                            Texas
                        , this County. His daughter, Mrs. Jennie Clark, runs an Orphans Home at that place
                        now, which is a credit to herself and County. The name of her Orphans Home is "Bell
                        Haven".
                    I was ninety years old the fifteenth of last March [1919].
                    Rachel Harness Whitman, Wife of Matthew Rogers Luce.
                
         
         
            Hill Men of Indiana
            
               Conrad Hill from 
                            Germany
                         1811, married Barbara, lived Allen Co. 1850.
               Conrad C. Hill born 1835, married Dorthea, died 1905 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
               Cornelius Hill of 
                            Mooresville
                         in Co. D. 70th Regt. Ind. Inf. 1862.
               Cornelius A. Hill born 1856, died Franklin 1943.
               Cornelius A. Hill born 1867, died 
                            Indianapolis
                         1940.
               Daniel Hill married Sarah Bush 1858 Allen Co. Ind.
               Daniel Hill married Mary Kamter 1860 Allen Co. Ind.
               Daniel Hill married Catherine Brossert 1863 Allen Co. Ind.
               Daniel B. Hill born 1889 Ill; married Ethel; died 1949 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
               Daniel F. Hill of 
                            Montgomery
                         Co. Sgt. 11th Regt. Ind. Inf. 1861.
               Daniel F. Hill of 
                            Indianapolis
                        ; Adjt. 132nd Ind. Regt. 1864.
               
               Daniel M. Hill of Jennings Co. Paymaster 9th Regt. Ind. 1861.
               Daniel M. Hill married Mary E. Davis 1884 
                            Bartholomew
                         Co.
               Daniel W. Hill born 1869; married Mollie Clark; died 
                            Indianapolis
                         1941.
               Daniel W. Hill married Jennie Kurt or 
                            Kent
                         1910 Adams Co.
               Darwin B. Hill married Eliza Whitman 1868 Allen Co.
            
            Correspondence and records on these men desired by
            Edwin P. Hill
            5421 
                        Broadway
                    
            
            
               
                        Indianapolis
                     20, Indiana
         
         
            Query 137
            I should like information on the following who made land entries in Indiana through the 
                        Cincinnati
                     District: 
                  Nancy Davis, T6N, R3W, 1st Principal Meridian, W1/2 SW1/4 Sec. 2, June 12, 1818.
                  Benjamin D. Davis, T2N, R3W, 1st Principal Meridian, SW1/4 Sec. 6, December 4, 1816.
                  Nicholas Davis, T2N, R3W, 1st Principal Meridian, SW1/4 Sec. 5, August 28, 1815, and other
                            lands.
                  Also William Davis
                  Joseph W. Davis, T20N, R14E, 2nd Principal Meridian, W1/2 SW1/4 Sec. 26, August 29,
                        1836.
               
            
            I am particularly interested in Nancy, Nicholas, and Joseph W. Davis. I believe they were from
                            
                  Butler County, Ohio
               . Did they actually live on the land? Are any of their descendants
                    living in Indiana or elsewhere? Where did they die? Where were they buried?
            Mrs. Nellie Kirby
            2421 N.E. Irving Street
            
               
                        Portland
                     12, 
                        Oregon
                    
            
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
