
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 34, Issue 4, pages 395-504. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:34+issue:4+year:1938&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
      
      
         
         
            The Education of Linton Usher
            WILLIAM MONROE BALCH
            
            "I never had any education," says Linton Usher. He means not
                    much school-going, for, unconsciously to himself, he has acquired the greater
                    education through absorption of and absorption into the life of two great
                    American eras—the Civil War and the civilizing of the West.
            Not many months ago, in the state of 
                        Kansas
                    , the author was handed a faded manuscript and to his surprise found
                    himself reading the sublime conclusion of 
                        Lincoln
                    's second inaugural, written and signed by 
                        Lincoln
                    's own hand. Sometime during the days between his second
                    inauguration and his death, the President had written it as a courtesy to Mrs.
                    John P. Usher, wife of his Secretary of the Interior. It is now the property of
                    her son, Linton Usher, who was then a boy of twelve.1 To
                    know 
                        Lincoln
                    , to belong to a Cabinet family, and to live in the stimulating
                    atmosphere of war-time 
                        Washington
                    , was the goodly beginning of this youth's education.
            Back of that, the traditions of high-minded families were the heritage with which
                    he began life. The Ushers were old New 
                        England
                     Puritans, dignitaries of state and church, probably derived from
                    Archbishop Usher to whom we owe the marginal chronology of our English Bible.
                    Linton's mother was the daughter of General Arthur Paterson and was
                    descended from the historic Patersons of 
                        New Jersey
                     and from the Chambers family, the fighting Irish of Londonderry and
                    Vinegar Hill.
            Linton Joseph Usher was born at 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Indiana, on December 9, 1852, where his father, John P. Usher, was
                        
                  
                     1 The author has used the personal papers of
                            Linton Usher and his family. These include interesting correspondence
                            and other matter left behind by his father, John P. Usher, who succeeded
                            Caleb B. Smith as 
                                Lincoln
                            's Secretary of the Interior.
               
                     a distinguished lawyer. Worth while people
                    were familiar to Linton in his boyhood. For instance, "Uncle
                    Joe" Cannon was then a student of law in Mr. Usher's office,
                    and Linton remembers the wedding of the parents of Booth Tarkington. John P.
                    Usher presently became Attorney General of Indiana and conducted some of the
                    most important litigations of the day. The Ushers lived in a brick mansion on
                    the outskirts of the city of 
                        Terre Haute
                     and there gave almost continuous hospitality to the notables who
                    came on occasions of politics, business and litigation. It was the custom of the
                    time to keep a decanter of whiskey on the side-board from which the guests might
                    refresh themselves at will. Mrs. Usher placed beside it a similar decanter
                    containing tansy-tea. Says Linton Usher: "Sometimes the guests would
                    get some of that d—–stuff by mistake, and then, oh
                    h—–!" Mr. Usher's super-expletives,
                    especially such big words as are fully printed only in the Bible, are not
                    delivered as explosives, much less as imprecations. They simply glide along with
                    the even flow of his low and kindly voice and sound altogether winsome.2
            
            At this point, meet Linton Usher as he is today at eighty-six. In spite of his
                    many years, he still runs on his own power, rides his own horse, herds his own
                    cattle, shoots his own rifle, rolls his own cigarets, eats with his own natural
                    teeth, speaks his own picturesque language, and thinks with his own mind. Only a
                    man who relies on his own education can do all that. He is short and sturdy of
                    frame, light of foot, clear-eyed and clear-brained, with a round pleasant face,
                    graphic and easy of speech, alert and friendly in bearing, and built physically
                    and mentally for speed and endurance alike.
            In 1862, John P. Usher was called to 
                        Washington
                     to become First Assistant Secretary of the Interior. On January 8,
                    1863, he succeeded Caleb B. Smith as Secretary and entered 
                        Lincoln
                    's Cabinet. He became a wise counselor of the President and
                    an efficient administrator of his Department. Mr. Usher seems to have attempted
                    to impart to his boys his own interest in his Department and other public
                    affairs. In July of 1863, he brought Mrs. Usher and their three sons to 
                        Washington
                     where they resided on F Street between Sixth and 
                  
                     2 The author has enjoyed a close personal
                            acquaintance with the old plainsman who is the subject of this sketch.
                            This was supplemented by several extended interviews, held for the
                            purpose of filling out the story and checking the information presented.
                            The prepared sketch was submitted to Mr. Usher and his family for
                            corrections and suggestions, following which it was given a final
                            revision before being offered for publication.
               
                     Seventh. Two or three houses away lived
                    Attorney Gneral Edward Bates, and Secretary Salmon P. Chase dwelt around the
                    corner. Soon after the Ushers arrived there occurred the marriage of
                    Chase's brilliant daughter Kate to Governor William Sprague of 
                        Rhode Island
                    . It was probably the most magnificient wedding that had ever taken
                    place in 
                        Washington
                    . Linton Usher saw it
                    boy-fashion—"peeking-in." But he seems to have been
                    equally intrigued by Sprague's bobtailed horse and an old
                    "crow-bait" which belonged to a negro living in the alley,
                    which was fed on the bedding of Sprague's gay steed. As to household
                    matters, the boy was impressed with his mother's continued serving of
                    coffee when chocolate as a beverage was coming into vogue. She also continued to
                    serve tansy-tea.
            The boy Linton in those days received excellent schooling. During most of their 
                        Washington
                     residence, he and his brothers attended Bonzaga Academy, an
                    institution on Seventh Street maintained by the Jesuit order. For a briefer
                    period, Linton attended Morrisania Academy, an estimable school in 
                        New Jersey
                    . At Bonzaga, their intimates were the young sons of General
                    Ricketts, one of the substantial corps commanders of the federal army. No doubt
                    the Jesuits were good teachers, but Linton seems to be more impressed by the
                    education which he then picked up from the janitor in the
                    "jug" and the boys on the playground. The
                    "jug" was a dismal basement to which the boys were committed
                    for discipline, which to them was rather a lark. There presided the stout Irish
                    janitor with a too-thick stick, and he did not spoil the child. Yet the boys, it
                    seems, remembered him rather kindly. There the Ushers and the Ricketts boys were
                    wont to make effigies of Jeff Davis and pelt them with spit-balls, especially
                    when southern boys were with them in the "jug." There, and on
                    the playground the boys fought out the issues of the war. Linton was once booked
                    to win the war or lose it by a bout of fisticuffs, but the
                    "copperhead" champion defaulted. The possible explanation of
                    his default might explain something else. It is well-known that most residents
                    of 
                        Washington
                    , in those days, apart from those employed by the government, were
                    southern and naturally pro-South, but most of them prudently held their tongues.
                    School-boys speak off the record, however, and the Usher and Ricketts lads found
                    their own loyalty almost unanimously antagonized  by scores of their schoolmates. Perhaps that
                    school-ground was one of the authentic "Mirrors of 
                        Washington
                    ," and, if so, it probably reveals one of the reasons why
                    the threat of rebel raids on the capital was a haunting nightmare to the
                    administration.
            The writer's first question to Linton Usher (at least in point of
                    interest) was this: "What do you best remember about Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    ?" He answered: "The time I saw Mr. Lincoln get
                    out of a barouche and get on a train. I thought he had the longest legs I ever
                    saw." That is true realism as no man could have said that except one
                    who had kept faith with his own boyhood. Then he added: "One time Mr.
                    Lincoln put his hand on my head and said `You're a fine boy and will
                    grow up to be a fine man.'" With this my old friend looked at
                    me whimsically, as though to say "That time the joke was on 
                        Lincoln
                    ." Yet only a fine man could have told the story in that
                    way. Mr. Usher is never the hero of his own stories, nor does he embellish them.
                    He seems a little at a loss to account for his hearer's interest nor
                    can he be tempted into inventing a climax where there wasn't a climax
                    in the actual unfolding of events. Some of 
                        Lincoln
                    's immortal jokes were heard from 
                        Lincoln
                    's own lips by Linton's father, and hearing them
                    from Linton now makes them seem less like distance echoes and more like living
                    speech. For instance, 
                        Lincoln
                    's incomparable word-picture of Stephens: "I never
                    saw a small nubbin wrapped up in so many shucks."
            In regard to Mrs. Lincoln, Linton Usher remembers shaking hands with her at a
                    White House reception, noticing that her little hand was so fat that she
                    couldn't pull her gloves much above her finger-tips. He recalls that he
                    disapproved of her affectations and doubted her loyalty to the Union. It roused
                    his spirit when asked whether he remembered 
                        Lincoln
                     at any historic scene. Indeed he did. He remembered the President
                    as he stood on the balcony of a high window and reviewed the march of General
                    Ambrose E. Burnside's Ninth Corps on the way to battle. He only said
                    about that much and with no stress of voice, but his listeners heard the drum
                    beats, the tramping feet and huzzas. After a silence, he further said:
                    "And I heard 
                        Lincoln
                     deliver his second Inaugural." Then for a while, there was
                    a silence again.
            As a boy Linton Usher talked and shook hands with Grant and Sherman. He remembers
                    also Sheridan, Hooker, 
                        Butler
                    ,  Stanton, and Sumner (whose
                    pretentious coach seems not to have pleased him). Neither did he like the looks
                    of Burn-side. Most of all he admired John A. Logan, and almost equally General
                    Winfield S. Hancock, who continued to be his friend in later years. He saw
                    Johnson's inauguration as vice-president. Several times he saw Congress
                    in session.
            There must have been something agreeable about those Usher lads for busy, great
                    men companioned them. Walt Whitman, who never flattered nor favored anyone whom
                    he didn't enjoy, was hilarious with these "kids" and
                    sent them books. Joseph A. Wright, when minister to Prussia, sent young Linton a
                    fine oil painting from Berlin which still hangs in his parlor. Caleb Lyon, art
                    connoisseur and esthete, seemed glad to take the lad to his hearthside and his
                    heart.
            Farragut, in the strenuous hours of preparing his fleet for Mobile, found time to
                    befriend him. And thereby hangs a charming tale of that great Admiral out of
                    uniform. Secretary Usher had taken Linton to 
                        New York
                    , where he remembers seeing "Ten Nights in a Bar
                    Room," but best of all remembers how Farragut took him over the
                    flag-ship 
                        Hartford
                    , which was then fitting out for the attack on Mobile, and proposed
                    to take him along as a "powder-monkey." Returning from the 
                        Brooklyn
                     Navy Yard, the Ushers rode an eight-cent bus. An old Irish woman
                    with a basket of vegetables had handed up a dime to the driver and failing to
                    receive her change, began "roaring for it," as Mr. Usher says.
                    The Admiral, in unimposing civil costume, ordered his aide, who was magnificent
                    in full uniform, to go aloft and see that two cents and full justice were
                    rendered to the old woman. Of men long honored, it is good to learn that they
                    may be loved too. At another time Linton also visited the flagship of Admiral
                    Meade who showed him a barrel of Ohio River water which had
                    been twelve times around Cape Horn and still was fresh.
            It is possible that no one else now living has had so near a view of the seats of
                    the mighty in those days. His father was one of them, and one of the most
                    clear-sighted of them. So the son was enabled to see with his father's
                    eyes, and it may well be that his views are sometimes authentic insights. His
                    estimate of Gideon Welles as a common-place but trustworthy Naval Secretary, and
                    of Welles' assistant Gustavus Vasa Fox, as one of history's
                    pre-eminent "organizers of victory," is possibly sound, as is
                    his clear recognition alike of 
                    Chase's greatness and great defects, and of the social and political
                    cleverness of the brilliant daughter Kate, the tragic bride of Governor Sprague.
                    When Usher today asserts definitely that Grant, in his Eastern campaign, was
                    hindered from the start by the prejudices of the important eastern generals,
                    save 
                        Hancock
                    ; when he asserts that those who knew Frémont most
                    intimately gave least credit to Frémont's
                    greatness—then we can say, at least, that the boy made some
                    historical inquiries. Whenever Linton importuned his father concerning the
                    conspiracy that led to 
                        Lincoln
                    's murder, Secretary Usher would reply that the
                    ramifications were so far-reaching that it was well that investigations had gone
                    no farther. At that point John P. Usher's lips were sealed. Is there
                    still some unsolved mystery involved?
            Another public event on which the Usher manuscripts give us a side-light is the
                    appointment of David Davis to the Supreme Court in 1862. It is nearly true to
                    say that Davis had made 
                        Lincoln
                     President, as he was later to refuse in 1876 the opportunity to
                    make another president. His appointment to the Supreme Bench would seem to have
                    been 
                        Lincoln
                    's logical course and Secretary Usher had written to Davis
                    offering to urge his nomination. The Davis letter in reply is still in Linton
                    Usher's possession. Davis, who was equally great as a legislator and a
                    jurist, was no less great as a patriot and as a friend. His cordial appreciation
                    of Mr. Usher's confidence is evident, but he rejected definitely all
                    efforts in his own behalf. For many years, 
                        Lincoln
                     had been his dear friend and the old friendship must not now be
                    made an added load to the over-burdened President, nor must the claims of
                    personal frienship be permitted to complicate the President's judgment
                    of public duty. The clear script and clear language of this extraordinary letter
                    attest the clear conscience of the writer. To read this confidential letter to a
                    friend about a friend, should give pause to certain contemporary
                    historiographers who are making out that Davis at that time was busily
                    intriguing among the mutual friends of himself and the President to put pressure
                    on 
                        Lincoln
                     in behalf of this appointment. It is pleasing to know that a few
                    weeks later 
                        Lincoln
                     appointed David Davis to the Supreme Court.
            Another event which lives in Linton's vivid memory is General
                    Early's raid toward 
                        Washington
                     in 1864. The Confederate 
                    leader almost arrived. In 
                        Washington
                     excitement ran high and hot. All the men and many boys were under
                    arms. Linton Usher himself flourished an old musket which it is unlikely that he
                    or anybody else could have fired. Across the street from the Usher home was the
                    mansion of a notorious pro-southern family. That night every window from
                    basement to garret was blazing with light to give welcome to Early's
                    troopers. It was believed by some that Conferedate officers had wormed their way
                    into the city and were in that house that night. Mr. Usher makes the shrewd
                    surmise that Early could have brought his army in, but was smart enough to know
                    that he could not have made his way out again.
            On the fourteenth of April, 1865—note that date—Secretary
                    Usher's family moved from 
                        Washington
                     to resume their residence in Indiana. The Secretary had gone with
                    them as far as Relay Junction, half-way to 
                        Baltimore
                    . There he learned that 
                        Lincoln
                     had just been shot. Within a few hours Secretary Usher was back in 
                        Washington
                     and had joined Stanton and Welles at the bedside of the dying
                    President. There, through the saddest hours of our nation's history,
                    these faithful friends kept their heart-breaking vigil until in the gray dawn
                    one of them said: "Now he belongs to the ages." John P. Usher
                    could hardly speak freely of those hours. Of the little that the father may have
                    said, the son remembers less, and that no more than some of the statements about
                    the ghastly, physical features that were connected with the death-bed scene.
            As is well known, the murder-plot led also to an attack on Secretary Seward that
                    almost caused his death, and to other murderous attempts, and possibly
                    contemplated the massacre of the entire Cabinet. About the fatal hour,
                    mysterious strangers appeared at Secretary Usher's home and it could be
                    that his brief trip to Relay Junction saved his life.
            Of all Linton Usher's memories and memorials of war-time 
                        Washington
                    , nothing is more impressive than the autograph album opening with 
                        Lincoln
                    's copy from the Second Inaugural. Following that priceless
                    page are greetings, mottoes, counsels, and endearments, signed by the
                    vice-president, Andrew Johnson; the future vice-president, Henry Wilson; Chif
                    Justice Chase and other justices of the Supreme Court; all of the Cabinet
                    members; Generals Grant, Sherman, Sheridan 
                    and ten other distinguished soldiers; such naval chiefs as Farragut and Fox; the
                    French minister, Comte de Chambrun; the orator Wendell Phillips; the Senators,
                    John Sherman, Charles Sumner and a dozen more who were then powerful leaders in
                    Congress; such authors as Walt Whitman, Lew Wallace and Albion W. Tourgee; C. A.
                    Dana and J. W. Forney, world-famous journalists—in all eighty-four
                    names and every one of them significant. These autographs were collected by
                    Margaret Paterson Usher, in the early spring of 1863, as an heirloom for her
                    children. It is noteworthy that she did not include the name of any man who had
                    been an antagonist of 
                        Lincoln
                    . In spite of such exceptions, it is an adequate dramatis personae of the great American tragedy. A composite biography
                    of these eighty-four men, including their contacts and conflicts, would give
                    much of the story of the Civil War. One may ask if there is anywhere else in the
                    world any collection made at any one time of the signatures of so many men who
                    personify one of the major epochs of history?
            A few weeks after 
                        Lincoln
                    's death, Secretary Usher resigned from the Cabinet to
                    become the General Solicitor of the Union Pacific Railroad. Concluding his
                    political career, he resumed the professional career in which he was no less
                    eminent. During many of the ensuing years, he resided at Lawrence, 
                        Kansas
                    . He died in 1889, one day before the anniversary of 
                        Lincoln
                    's assassination.
            When a schoolboy, Linton Usher went hunting on Staten Island. That was where the
                    West began for him. Or had it begun in the Indian Bureau of his
                    father's Department of the Interior? At any rate, when the time came
                    for him to go to college he had "another idea." The other idea
                    was the West. That was the college for him. Out in 
                        Kansas
                     was a part of his father's Wild-West
                    principality—a quarter of a million acres. It had to be surveyed.
                    Linton thought he had to survey it. It was boyhood's shouting response
                    to the challenge of destiny. In 1867, at the age of fifteen, he enrolled in
                    "Wilderness University."
            The subsequent pattern of his activities traces one of the vital factors in the
                    civilizing of the untamed West. After the youth had surveyed his
                    father's lands to his liking, he began  to shuttle back and forth over the long Chistholm
                    trail, buying, shepherding, shipping the thundering herds of the dusty
                    Southwest. Down through Ft. Worth to Austin, associated there with the opulent
                    and lordly Driscolls, then from Austin to Tombstone and betimes to old 
                        Mexico
                    . But oftener, he went to New 
                        Mexico
                     and the 
                        Texas
                     panhandle, and from these various places back to eastern 
                        Kansas
                    . For some thirty years, 
                        Leavenworth
                     was thus his base of operation. With his father, he went to 
                        San Francisco
                     while it was still somewhat in the raw. There they visited their
                    friends, the McLaughlins, whose vast cow-ranches and horse-ranches engaged the
                    younger Usher's eager interest. When offered a fine wheat farm his
                    answer was, "No d—– wheat in mine."
            Back in 
                        Kansas
                     again, Linton Usher married a kinswoman of his own fine family
                    stock. For the remaining years of her life, she kept the home-haven at 
                        Leavenworth
                    . Then, after her early death and the death of their little son, the
                    Odyssey of the surviving husband and father was still maintained, until, with
                    the years, he had woven his way through every state in the Union save one, and
                    also 
                        Canada
                     and 
                        Mexico
                    . In 1904, he married Charlotte Dicker of Lawrence, 
                        Kansas
                    . They resided first in 
                        Oregon
                    , then successively in 
                        Montana
                    , Vancouver, and Aransas Pass, 
                        Texas
                    . Still he went adventuring far and near, usually dealing in cattle,
                    but occasionally in mines and oil-wells. As late as 1918, he went all over the
                    West in an automobile, looking for a "likely" ranch. In 1923,
                    he settled at last on the old parental lands at Pomona, 
                        Kansas
                    . Here he still rides his range of nearly two thousand acres and
                    herds his five hundred cattle. And here the memories of Sacs and Foxes still
                    linger like living presences in his mind.
            Such men were indispensible to the constructive achievements of the West of
                    yesterday. What they did could not have been done either by the drifters or by
                    the settlers alone. The settlers had to leave too much behind them. But men like
                    Usher who tied their far-flung projects to an eastern base were the binders of
                    all America. These were the woof, the settlers the warp of the new and
                    miraculous fabric. Thus 
                  St.
                        Louis, Leavenworth
               , and 
                        New Orleans
                    , like Constantinople through the Dark Ages, were the anchorages
                    binding the vast frontier country beyond to the social order.
            
            In Linton Usher's "Wilderness University," as perhaps
                    nowhere else in modern times, are we taught the historical significance of the
                    typical man and the typical event. Such men as Linton Usher, whether or not we
                    ascribe to them intrinsic greatness, are historical because they are the living
                    types of the life which is history itself. For instance, in what he calls a
                    "honky-tonky," in pioneer 
                        Denver
                    , he saw some women on the stage, half drunk, come dancing down the
                    aisles, singing—"It will all be forgotten in a hundred
                    years." But it will not be forgotten in a hundred years nor in a
                    thousand. Those poor honky-tonky girls could not know that the prodigious life
                    of which they were the bedraggled symbols, is sure to remain an epic of epics
                    for many a hundred years to come. The like of it had never been before and can
                    never be again.
            Another lesson of the "Wilderness University" is that the
                    spirit of adventure is a main factor in the making of security. If stable
                    civilization depended wholly on the stabilizers it could never get started. In
                    two remarks of Mr. Usher, he was the unconscious spokesman of history. When
                    asked in the fall when he would go South for the winter, he answered:
                    "I don't know. Some day when I feel like it, I'll go
                    right then. I've always been that way." The West could not
                    have been made without the men who were ready for sudden journeys and
                    unpremeditated projects. Only men who loved to take themselves by surprise could
                    have done the deeds and won the results that are now the wonder of the world.
                    Those who wait till they know why they are going, and how they are going, and
                    where they are going, are not the men who change the unknown into the known.
            Linton Usher remarked that he had never cared to get rich but only to see life.
                    To him and his kind, getting money seems to have been part of life, but keeping
                    it wasn't. There is your counter-poise to the dogma of economic
                    determinism. Why did the Goths raid the Roman Empire? Historians are wont to say
                    that it was because the Goths coveted the wealth of 
                        Rome
                    . But the "Wilderness University" should teach
                    them that those young Goths, like Linton Usher, Jedidiah Smith or Kit Carson,
                    wanted most of all to experience life, perhaps to "live
                    dangerously." Did Lindbergh fly the Atlantic because he had business in 
                        Paris
                    ? Did Peary and Amundsen go to the Poles because there was something
                    there that they wanted  to get? To economic
                    greed add both missionary zeal and a statesmanlike foresight, and did the three
                    of them constitute a greater factor than the spirit of adventure in the making
                    of the West?
            Usher, the old plainsman, seems disinclined to narrate the more adventurous of
                    his adventures. He tells no tall tales of killing deer, bear and bison.
                    Nevertheless his fishing and hunting trips sometimes took him into the remoter
                    wilds. And still he hunts and fishes with his old time ardor. He admires the
                    fighting adventurers, though he does not pose as one of them. Yes, he knew 
                        Buffalo
                     Bill: "When Bill was a young fellow he worked for my
                    father, and years afterwards he gave me tickets to his show. And those fellows
                    really were crack shots." The stories of their marksmanship are not
                    much exaggerated. Linton Usher saw them shoot. "Wild Bill Hickok? Saw
                    him a hundred times. He was an overbearing fellow. But he dug like a Trojan the
                    time we buried that poor fellow down by Fossil Creek."
            Here is the Fossil Creek story—One day "The Old
                    General" (not named) and "Old
                    K—–," an unpopular railroad president, with
                    Linton, were traveling by private coach, escorted by a cavalry squad. On
                    approaching Fossil Creek, in Western 
                        Kansas
                    , they saw a white man near his cabin exchanging shots with Indians
                    in the brush by the creek. The Indians dispersed when they saw the soldiers. The
                    white man explained that his brother had gone to the creek for water and that
                    the Indians had killed him there. He begged for aid to recover his
                    brother's body. Old K—– was well scared, and at
                    his demand the soldiers were forbidden to go. But Linton went with the living
                    brother. They found that the victim had not been scalped, though a gash had been
                    made on the side of his head. They lifted him across a long musket and brought
                    him home. Linton found himself smeared with blood. By that time, a stage had
                    arrived and its guard was none other than the famous Wild Bill. Then it was that
                    Bill served as the vigorous grave-digger and remarked while digging:
                    "If that old K—– had been on my stage,
                    I'd have made him pay $500 or I'd have throwed him
                    to them Indians." When the journey was resumed, the mules drawing the
                    coach could hardly keep pace with the cavalry horses. The frightened railroad
                    magnate took the reins, whipped the mules till he drew blood, and at the
                    journey's end had whipped and 
                    driven some of them to death. The double inhumanity, to the squatter at the
                    creek and to the poor beasts, got rumored about and the Old General was blamed
                    for it, and was hailed before General 
                        Hancock
                    's court-martial. Then it was that the old friendship of 
                        Hancock
                     with the boy Linton whom he had known in 
                        Washington
                     became the means whereby the truth of the matter came to 
                        Hancock
                     and the Old General was promptly acquitted.
            Dick Wooten was another adventurer whom Linton knew. Wooten had made a bridge at
                    Raton Pass and held it as well as Horatius held the bridge in the brave days of
                    old. Neither man nor beast got through the pass without paying heavy toll. But
                    by and by the Santa Fe railroad came through and the curses of many cattle-men
                    were fulfilled—Dick Wooten was "busted."
            Among the many adventurers known to Linton none was more picturesque than Colonel
                    Stanley, who had commanded a 
                        South Carolina
                     regiment during the Mexican War. Subsequently, he had been the
                    comrade in arms and trusted confidant of the romantic and now almost mythical
                    filibusterer, William Walker, "the gray-eyed man of destiny,"
                    who had made himself President of 
                        Nicaragua
                     and later was shot by a firing squad in 
                        Honduras
                    . Stanley seems to have walked in the ways of Walker-worship to the
                    end of his days. In his old age, when Linton Usher knew him, the Colonel was
                    still revelling in the vanity of dreams. The veterans of Walker's
                    private-crew had made up some kind of a tontine-pool which would enormously
                    enrich the last survivor of their band. Stanley was waiting in the impatience of
                    hope for two or three other old men to shuffle off, and he was the last one to
                    die.
            In the same "Wilderness University" was to be learned anew the
                    old historic fundamental that spontaneous law and order are the normal
                    prerequisites of established institutions. Without the former, the latter can be
                    created only with difficulty, if at all. Mr. Usher tells of big Dan Donahoe who
                    emerged from a grog-shop and remarked casually: "I saw there was going
                    to be a fight in there, so I knocked 'em all down and came
                    out." From such crude beginnings evolves the policing of the world.
            It was in 1869, that Usher discovered 
                        Denver
                    . There was one modest brick structure in the town, and not very
                    many frame buildings. Some of the latter were not modest.  Saloons and worse were everywhere. He was shown the
                    cottonwood tree which served for a gallows. Some prisoner broke jail. Bells rang
                    like a fire-alarm. The vigilantes rallied from everywhere. They overtook the
                    prisoner not far from town, shot him through the leg, tried him in lynch-court
                    and decided not to hang him. That negative marked distinct progress in the long
                    evolution of public order. It may conserve our historic slant to note that on
                    the same trip Linton Usher saw thousands of buffaloes through the car windows.
            Such primitive policing as that of Dan Donahoe and the vigilantes, with its
                    background of primitive society, indicates why the "constituted
                    authorities" were so often ineffective. Usher says that the 
                        United States
                     Marshals "were d—–
                    thieves." Be that as it may, they and other limbs of the law were not
                    of the natural growth of western life and could not be grafted upon it without a
                    lot of another kind of "grafting" and various sorts of
                    misfittings.
            Another historic principle re-evinced in Linton Usher's West is the
                    necessity of temporary compromise with disorder in the uncompromising struggle
                    for the permanent and better order. It seems now to readers and hearers of old
                    western tales that nothing was doing then but gambling, drinking and shooting.
                    At a Deadwood gambling-joint, for instance, Usher saw a "bushel of
                    gold, anyhow half a bushel, poured out on the table." His comment is
                    something to think about. "You didn't have to gamble if you
                    didn't want to, and it was their own money anyhow, and the shooting
                    wasn't going on all the time." The Wild West would tolerate
                    gambling, booze, and several kinds of rough stuff. Nevertheless, it had its code
                    of unpardonable sins—such as jumping claims to lands or mines,
                    fraudulent cattle-branding, cheating, cowardice, lack of generosity, and
                    mistreatment of decent women or helpless children. Suppose that all the decent
                    adventurers had taken time out to abolish all the vices of their
                    world—the West would have remained indefinitely a world of scenery,
                    buffalo herds, Indians, and vices. They chose rather the way of tolerance for
                    the time while they pursued their destined adventure in making another kind of
                    world.
            In every history of "new worlds" for "old"
                    there arises the hard problem of the beaten men and the beaten races. Linton
                    Usher had little trouble with Indians. His plan was the simple one of doing them
                    favors and making friends  with them:
                    "If you take care to make all the friends you can, they will take care
                    of the few who won't be friends. Try to treat them as well as they
                    think you treat white men. Don't try to bluff them and don't
                    let them bluff you." The worst in Indians, he has always believed, is
                    due mostly to the worst in white men.
            This is what Linton Usher has learned and taught in the school of the great West:
                    that the enterprisers who worked both East and West were the weavers of the
                    national fabric; that the typical rather than the great men and events should be
                    the essential substance of history; that the adventurers, as truly as the
                    settlers and investors, have been makers of the West; that spontaneous law is
                    the deep basis of the social order; that temporary compromise is necessary to
                    consistent progress; that some men at least have found it practical to befriend
                    the beaten races.
            With all his restless coming and going over the American world, Mr. Usher has
                    somehow found time for education through books. He has a large library. He has
                    been an appreciative and discriminating reader, and knows history and politics
                    in a rather masterly way. Old as he is in years, he is not mentally old, and, in
                    politics, he seems to be rather progressive with possible leanings to the left.
                    After all, he is so distinctly himself that he is hard to classify. His old age
                    (if that is what it is) is appropriate to the precedents of his long life. He
                    follows the seasons regularly, and sometimes the urge of his interests, all over
                    the map. When at home in 
                        Kansas
                    , he lives in a dignified country house, Mrs. Usher, their children
                    and grandchildren forming a congenial domestic and neighborhood circle. He is
                    the head of an unfallen House of Usher.
         
         
         
            Descendants of the Dumonts of 
                        Vevay
                    
               *
            
            LUCILLE DETRAZ SKELCHER
                    and JANE LUCILLE SKELCHER
            
            The seven children of John and Julia L. Dumont who grew to maturity were:
                    Ebenezer, Martha, Mary, Peter Cory, Aurelius, 
                        Marietta
                    , and Julia. Three boys, John, Henry and Cornelius, each lived to be
                    about ten years of age, and a fourth, Edgar, was drowned at the age of
                        thirteen.1 The parents were married in 1812, and, after
                    living in 
                        Cincinnati
                     for a short period, they came to 
                        Vevay
                     some time before the birth of the first son on November 23, 1814.
            EBENEZER DUMONT
            
            Ebenezer Dumont was a teacher, lawyer, banker, soldier, and member of the
                    national House of Representatives. He taught school while studying law. He
                    married Mary Ann Cheek in 1838 or 1839. During the Mexican War he served as a
                    lieutenant colonel. From 1852 until the institution wound up its business, Mr.
                    Dumont served as the President of the Indiana State Bank. At the beginning of
                    the Civil War, he became the colonel of the Seventh Indiana Regiment, but, in
                    September, 1861, was promoted to the rank of brigadier general. His brigade was
                    often commended by superior officers. In 1863, when stationed at 
                        Nashville
                    , he led a force in pursuit of John Morgan who barely escaped at
                            
                  Lebanon, tnu
               . Having been elected to
                    Congress in 1862, General Dumont resigned from the army in February, 1863. He
                    was an experienced legislator having earlier served in the Indiana legislature.
                    He was well read and quite a student of the Bible. He was an entertaining
                    speaker and popular with his colleagues. When it was known that he was to speak,
                    seats were sure to be filled. His drawling humor was much in evidence in his
                        speeches.2 He served two terms in the House, 
                  
                     * This article is a sequel to
                            "Julia L. Dumont of 
                                Vevay
                            ," by the same authors, which appeared in the
                            September, 1938, issue.
                  
                     1 See "Julia L. Dumont of 
                                Vevay
                            ," Indiana Magazine of History
                            (Sept., 1938), XXXIV, 306, Note. 9.
                  
                     2 His speeches as printed in the Congressional Globe bear out this statement. For example, see
                            his speech of Feb. 16, 1867 (Cong. Globe, 39 Cong., 2
                            Sess., Appendix, 162-166.) This was a speech in which the Representative
                            from Indiana criticised the Supreme Court for the decision in the
                            Garland case, "to the effect that the act of Congress requiring
                            attorneys-at-law to take what is familiarly called the ironclad oath is
                            unconstitutional and void and cannot be enforced. …
                            " (Ibid., 162). It is not the purpose here to
                            indicate the content of the speech, but to illustrate the humor of
                            Dumont. The whole speech abounds in humorous sallies which there is not
                            space to quote. Before opening his remarks, the gentleman from Indiana
                            asked the Clerk of the House to read the following paragraph: "A hotel keeper in 
                                    Washington
                                 posted this notice: `Members of Congress will go to the
                                table first, and then the gentlemen. Rowdies and blackguards must
                                not mix with Congressmen, as it is hard to tell one from the
                                other.'" The quoted notice is not related
                            to the speech that followed, and was evidently used to wake up the
                            audience as the Congressman intimated.
                  In another part of the speech, Dumont told a story from back home in
                            Indiana, which is worth repeating. Here it is: "A constituent of my colleague [John H. Farquhar], in
                                whose district I once lived, was elected justice of the peace, and
                                thereupon, believing his was one of the few immortal names not born
                                to die went to the clerk of the court to file his bond and be sworn
                                into office. He exhibited his commission and said he had come to
                                file his bond and be qualified. `Hold up your hand,'
                                responded the gruff old clerk, who, when enraged and indignant, was
                                a little rough and profane; `I'll swear you in; all
                                h—l can't qualify
                                you.'"(Ibid.,
                        165).
               
                     but was not a candidate for a third term in
                    1866. He was appointed governor of 
                        Idaho
                     Territory in 1871, accepted, and was preparing to leave to take up
                    the duties of the office when he died in April of that year.
            Ebenezer Dumont had a family of seven daughters, towards whom he is said to have
                    played the part of a strict Victorian father. His eldest daughter was Fanny. She
                    married David Braden in 1858, who became a captain in the Civil War. She lived
                    to be ninety-four years old, dying in 1934. During the Civil War, she took her
                    two children to 
                  Nashville,
                            tnu
               , to be near her
                    husband who was ill. At the time of her death, she was survived by two
                    daughters, Mrs. William 
                        Caldwell
                    , and Mrs. H. T. Dwiggins, and two sons, David and James Braden.
                    James Braden was killed in an airplane crash early in 1937. Her grandchildren
                    are said to have numbered seven and her great-grandchildren ten. At least one
                    son, Frederick Braden, died before his mother. Her daughter, Mrs. William 
                        Caldwell
                    , had three sons, Dumont, Braden, and Wallace 
                        Caldwell
                    .
            Ebenezer's second daughter, Julia Dumont, was given the name of his
                    mother. In 1862, she married Major Jonathan W. Gordon. He served in the Mexican
                    War and also in the Civil War for about three years. Julia was Major
                    Gordon's second wife. They had five daughters, and one son named John
                    C. Gordon. Mrs. Gordon died in 1928.
            Ebenezer's third daughter was Martha Cory Dumont, who married H. E.
                    Drew. The fourth daughter, Emma Dumont married Matthew D. Watson. They had at
                    least two children, a daughter who married George M. Cole, and a son, Lieut.
                    Thomas Dumont Watson. The fifth daughter of Ebenezer, Isabelle Dumont, married
                    John W. Williams. She was still living in 1934. The sixth daughter, Anna Dumont,
                         married R. E. Springeteen. The seventh
                    and youngest, Jessie Dumont, married William S. Whitney. She also was still
                    living in 1934.
            MARTHA DUMONT
            
            Martha Dumont, eldest daughter of John and Julia L. Dumont, married William B.
                    Campbell in 1834. He was one of the early teachers of 
                        Switzerland
                     County. While studying law at 
                  Oxford, Ohio
               , William's father died during the great
                        Ohio River Flood of 1832. The young man soon after went
                    with his brother-in-law, William Protsman, to 
                        Cincinnati
                     to buy the Protsman farm north of 
                        Vevay
                    . Making the trip on horseback, they beat Joseph Malin who traveled
                    by steamboat bent on purchasing the same farm. William 
                        Campbell
                     built the brick house on Main Street in 
                        Vevay
                     where Nelson Haskell now resides. He kept a store and sold the
                    first lucifer matches put on the market in the town. He became prosperous and at
                    one time owned considerable property in 
                        Vevay
                    . He lost most of it through signing surety bonds. After meeting
                    reverses, the 
                        Campbell
                     family moved to 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , where Mr. Campbell practiced law and collected taxes. He died
                    about 1846, and Mrs. Campbell returned to 
                        Vevay
                     with her children. She kept house for her father, John Dumont,
                    after the death of her mother. She died in 1869, about a year before her father
                    passed away.
            William and Martha Dumont 
                        Campbell
                     had five children. One of the daughters was Annette 
                        Campbell
                    , who died when a young woman. She was a school teacher and wrote
                    poetry, some appearing in the Philotheamean Gem, an early 
                        Vevay
                     high school paper. The only son, William Lamb 
                        Campbell
                    , was born in 1836. He became a lawyer and was also a newspaper man.
                    He was extremely well versed in the law, so that other lawyers consulted him on
                    doubtful points connected with their cases, and called him the
                    "lawyer's encyclopedia." He was, however, quite
                    impractical and gave much of his legal advice without charge. He served in the
                    Civil War and figured in The First of the Hoosiers and The Last of the Flatboats by George Cary Eggleston.3 In the eighteen-eighties he went to 
                        California
                     for his health and edited a paper in 
                        Los Angeles
                    
                    
                  
                     3
                            The First of the Hoosiers (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1703), 188-186; The Last of the Flat
                            Boats (
                                Boston
                            , 1900). William L. Campbell, Edward Eggleston, and George
                            Cary Eggleston were the originals of "Irving Strong,"
                            "Ed Lowry" and "Phil Lowry,"
                            respectively, in The Last of the Flatboats.
                  
               
                     for some time. He died there in 1922. He
                    was married twice, his first wife being an 
                        Indianapolis
                     woman. They had one daughter, Mary Louisa. She married a man named
                    Bigelow and they had three children, May, Fran, and Lawrence 
                        Campbell
                    . After his separation from his first wife, William L. Campbell
                    married again. His second wife's Christian name was Mary. They had one
                    daughter, Juliette Dumont 
                        Campbell
                    , born in 1890. She also evidenced talent in writing. She married a
                    man by the name of Armstrong, and had five children: Mary Janet, Ethel Pearl,
                    Ruth Loretta, John Forrest, and William 
                        Campbell
                    .
            Juliette Dumont 
                        Campbell
                    , another of the daughters of William and Martha (Dumont) 
                        Campbell
                    , married Joseph Shipp, an 
                        Indianapolis
                     business man. She died in 1891, leaving two daughters, May Louisa
                    and Margaret Shipp. May Louisa did some writing, delivered occasional lectures
                    and gave private lessons at her home in language and history. Margaret also did
                    some private tutoring and was a teacher in a private school. She is a Vassar
                    graduate. Both of these sisters are still living in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Neither ever married.
            Eliza Maria 
                        Campbell
                    , a third daughter of William and Martha 
                        Campbell
                    , married a physician, a Dr. 
                        Henderson
                    . Their only child, a daughter, Juliette Cory, married Frank Leslie.
                    Three children were born to the Leslies. One, a daughter, Eliza Maria, died in
                    infancy. The elder son, William Leslie, born in 1903, became a doctor. The
                    younger son was named John Dumont Leslie. About ten years ago he left home and
                    has not been heard from since. Eliza Maria 
                        Henderson
                     died in 1929.
            Mary Louisa 
                        Campbell
                     was the eldest daughter of Martha and William 
                        Campbell
                    . In 1855, she married Francis Rodolph Detraz, a builder and
                    cabinet-maker of 
                        Vevay
                    . At one time, he was also 
                        Vevay
                    's principal ice dealer. He built the house now occupied by 
                        Lincoln
                     Means. Mary Louise Detraz died in 1874, leaving five children, a
                    daughter and four sons. The daughter, Martha Antoinette, was the eldest, and
                    after her mother's death took her place in looking after and caring for
                    her father and three of her brothers. Next to the youngest brother, having made
                    his home with his Grandmother Detraz for several years, due to his
                    mother's ill health, continued to do so after her death. Martha Detraz
                    never married.
            
            The eldest brother of Martha Detraz, William Benjamin, died in 1888 at the age of
                    twenty-nine. The second brother, Eugene Rodolph, and the youngest or fourth,
                    Clarence Aime, made up the firm of the Detraz Brothers who were in the lumber,
                    building, and planing-mill business in 
                        Vevay
                     for over thirty years. Many of the buildings in and around the
                    little city were planned and built by them. These include the present Reveille building, the Dickason & Weales Garage, the
                    Frank Riley and Forrest Griffith homes, and also the house where they themselves
                    lived so long, now occupied by Mr. and Mrs. Herman L. Fox. The third of the four
                    brothers, Samuel Francis Detraz, married Amy Lewark in Pendleton, Indiana, where
                    he and his brothers had gone to build and establish a planing mill.
                    Samuel's brothers never married. This Samuel F. Detraz was an architect
                    and builder. He planned the 
                        Vevay
                     Deposit Bank building, which his brothers erected. Martha Detraz
                    died in 1927, Eugene in 1933, Clarence in 1935. Samuel Francis Detraz died
                    earlier, in 1911. He was generally known as "Frank" Detraz. He
                    left three children, Lucille, Louisa and Orville Detraz. Orville married Mildred
                    Bliss in 1927. They have two sons, David Francis and Orville Richard Detraz, and
                    at the present time they reside in 
                  Rock
                            Island, Illinois
               , where the father is the head of the contract
                    section of the 
                        Rock Island
                     division of the United States River Survey.
                    Louisa Detraz is the wife of Herman L. Fox, a grain dealer. They reside in 
                        Vevay
                     with their sons, Jack 
                        Warren
                     and Newell Fox. Lucille Detraz married Sydney Palmer Skelcher, a
                    florist, in 1916. There is one daughter, Jane Lucille Skelcher. Since Mr.
                    Skelcher's death in 1935, the widow and daughter have resided in 
                        Vevay
                    .
            MARY DUMONT
            
            The second of the Dumont daughters was Mary, who married William S. Lamb in 1837.
                    He became county clerk of 
                        Perry County
                    , Indiana, in 1840 or 1841. This daughter died before her mother,
                    Julia L. Dumont, whose death occurred in 1857.
            PETER CORY DUMONT
            
            Peter Cory Dumont was the second son. He outlived both his father and mother. He
                    married but his wife's name has not been discovered. There were seven
                    children, two  sons and five daughters. A
                    daughter Abbie married a man named Farwell, and they later lived in 
                        Texas
                    . One of her brothers was John F. Dumont and the other William
                    Dumont. The latter died in early manhood, but was married and left two children.
                    The daughters of Peter Cory Dumont besides Abbie were: Mary A., who married a
                    Mr. Parks; Julia Louise, who married a Duffy; Mary; and Eunice. No information
                    can be furnished about the last two.
            AURELIUS DUMONT
            
            Aurelius Dumont was the third and youngest of the sons of John and Julia L.
                    Dumont to reach maturity. He was graduated from 
                        Hanover
                     College and elected to the office of county auditor soon
                    thereafter. He was just well started on what promised to be a brilliant career
                    as a lawyer, when he died at the age of twenty-six. He married Harriet Dufour, a
                    refined young woman of 
                        Vevay
                     who died soon after her husband.4
            
            MARIETTA DUMONT
            
            
               
                        Marietta
                     Dumont, the third daughter, married Robert N. Lamb in 1847, who was
                    the original of "Lawyer Barlow" in Edward Eggleston's
                    novel Roxy, in which Aurelius and Harriet Dufour Dumont were
                    made the leading characters.5 When elected county auditor,
                    Aurelius Dumont invited Robert Lamb to serve as an assistant in the office for a
                    part of each day and read law with him during his time off. It was not long
                    until the assistant was practically placed in charge of the auditor's
                    office, while the man chosen to fill the place devoted his time to his growing
                    law practice. The young attorney was instrumental in obtaining for his assistant
                    the position as deputy sheriff. Though his duties were doubled, Lamb still read
                    law at intervals and was admitted to the bar. He then became a law partner of
                    his friend Dumont. In 1848, Mr. Lamb was elected to the office of prosecuting
                    attorney, and, following the death of young Dumont was appointed to complete his
                    term as auditor. In 1850, Mr. Lamb was defeated, but in 1855 he won the race for
                    auditor. He held the office till 1859, while he continued to practice law.
            
               
                  4 For further matter relative to Aurelius Dumont and
                        his wife, see "Julia L. Dumont of 
                            Vevay
                        ," loc. cit., 306.
               
                  5 Harriet Dufour Dumont, was the original of
                        "Roxy" and Aurelius Dumont was the original of
                        "Mark Bonamy."
            
            
            In July of 1861, Robert N. Lamb was appointed assistant quartermaster with the
                    rank of captain and served in the Union army until discharged on account of ill
                    health in the fall of 1862. He was then sent to the legislature. In 1864, he
                    became judge of the local circuit court. In 1868, he ran for Congress but was
                    defeated. Later the family moved to 
                        Indianapolis
                     where Mrs. Marietta (Dumont) Lamb died in 1876. A few years later
                    Mr. Lamb became president of the First National Bank of 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            Robert N. and 
                        Marietta
                     (Dumont) Lamb had two children who died in infancy, a third child,
                    Laura who died at the age of nine, and two daughters that grew up. The eldest of
                    the two, Elizabeth Lamb, married a lawyer named Thompson. He later became a
                    judge. She, like her grandmother, wrote some poetry. She also used to lecture at
                    women's club metings and was a very gifted, but eccentric woman,
                    especially in matters of dress. She had one son, Mac (or Max) Thompson. The
                    second daughter of Robert and 
                        Marietta
                     Lamb to reach maturity was named 
                        Marietta
                    . She married a Dr. Charles E. Ferguson, an 
                        Indianapolis
                     physician. Mrs. Ferguson died within the past year, but Dr.
                    Ferguson is still living. They had one daughter, also named 
                        Marietta
                    , who was married twice, first to a man named Holloway, and later to
                    a Mr. Covall.
            JULIA DUMONT
            
            Julia, the fourth and youngest of the four Dumont sisters was her
                    mother's namesake. She was a teacher, holding forth in the old
                    schoolroom after the death of her mother. In fact, she had served an
                    apprenticeship by helping her mother. In 1859, she married the Rev. Archibald S.
                    Reid, who was both a teacher and preacher. As late as 1870, Mrs. Reid advertised
                    the opening of a school. School terms were often quite short even after the
                    establishment of a public system, and it was not uncommon for extra subscription
                    schools to follow. Mrs. Reid collected all of the unprinted writings of her
                    mother, Julia L. Dumont, intending to have them published, but after the Reid
                    family left 
                        Vevay
                    , most of the collected manuscripts were destroyed in a fire. The
                    Reids had one son, John Dumont Reid, who became a minister. In 1891, this son
                    married Bessie Gertrude Bayse in 
                    
                        Minnesota
                    . Two children were born of this union, a son Kenneth Dumont Reid
                    (1892), and a daughter, Margaret Reid (1896)6
            
            
               
                  6 Information regarding the descendants of John and
                        Julia L. Dumont was found on the gravestones of the 
                            Vevay
                         Cemetery, in the records of 
                            Switzerland
                         County, in the files of the 
                            Vevay
                        
                        Reveille, and in Perret Dufour's History of 
                                Switzerland
                             County. Other facts were obtained from clippings in
                        scrap-books belonging to Julie LeClerc 
                            Knox
                         and the 
                            Switzerland
                         County Historical Society. A letter from William Lamb 
                            Campbell
                         to his nephew, Clarence A. Detraz, written at 
                            Los Angeles
                         on Mar. 2, 1901, contains much data relative to the ancestry of
                        Julia L. Dumont and her descendants. Many of the statements in the above
                        article are based on carefully preserved and oft repeated family
                    traditions.
            
         
         
         
            The Fur Trade of the Ohio Valley
            
            FRANK E. ROSS
            
            As early as 1700, we find the English fur traders plying their trade in the
                        Ohio valley. They were from the southern colonies,
                    apparently, since we note French complaints of Carolina traders.1
                    
                        Pennsylvania
                     traders did not enter the 
                        Ohio
                     region until the 1720's, from which time they came in
                    increasing numbers. Conrad Weiser told the Iroquois in a conference at 
                        Albany
                    , July 3, 1754, that "The Road to 
                        Ohio
                     is no new Road." It had, in fact, been traversed by the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     traders for thirty years.2 The 
                        Pennsylvania
                     fur trade did not become of real importance, however, until the
                    rise of the Iroquois to the position of supremacy in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    's Indian relations. In the early history of the colony,
                    the Delawares occupied that post of vantage. There was little intercourse
                    between 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and the Iroquois before the seventeen-thirties; the first treaty
                    between them bears the date 1732. Under the influence of Conrad Weiser, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    's celebrated expert in Indian affairs, 
                        Pennsylvania
                     cultivated the Six Nations3 and 
                        Pennsylvania
                    's relations with that confederacy "increased in
                        importance."4 Since the western Indians were
                    mostly Iroquois confederates, or owned a healthy fear of the Iroquois, the
                    alliance of the latter with 
                        Pennsylvania
                     had a direct influence on the fur trade of the 
                        Ohio
                     country. In the beginning only the boldest entrepreneurs dared to venture west of the Alleghenies. Now 
                        Pennsylvania
                     traders swarmed into the western country, doing a thriving trade in
                    peltry.
            In the meantime the French were moving eastward into the 
                        Ohio
                     region, erecting forts and trading posts as they came. As a
                    corollary of this eastern march, their main line of communication between New 
                        France
                     and 
                        Louisiana
                     was shifted from "the Fox-
                        Wisconsin
                     route to the 
                        Chicago
                    -
                        Illinois
                     route and thence to the Maumee-
                        Wabash
                     route."5 In the valleys of the Maumee
                    and the 
                        Wabash
                     the French established 
                  
                     1 Reuben G. Thwaites, Afloat on the 
                                    Ohio
                                
                      (
                                Chicago
                            , 1897), 302-303.
                  
                     2 Edmund B. O'Callaghan, Documents Relative to the Colonial History of the State of 
                                    New York
                                
                      (
                                Albany
                            , 1855), VI, 872, 876.
                  
                     3 Joseph S. Walton, Conrad Weiser and
                                the Indian Policy of Colonial 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                
                      (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1900), 16, 56.
                  
                     4 William M. Beauchamp, A History of
                                the 
                                    New York
                                 Iroquois (
                                Albany
                            , 1905), 274.
                  
                     5 Albert T. Volwiler, George Croghan
                                and the Westward Movement, 1741-1782 (
                                Cleveland
                            , 1926), 20.
               
                     three highly important fortified trading
                    centres, designed to intercept the Indian trade and communication with the
                    British. "Post Miami" was first established among the Miamis
                    of the St. Joseph River. Then in 1715, a party of these
                    Indians settled near the present 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , Indiana, where the confuence of the 
                        St. Joseph
                     and the St. Mary forms the Maumee River. The elder 
                        Vincennes
                    , commandant of "Post Miami," followed and erected
                    his post at the head of the Maumee.6 In 1719 or 1720 the
                    French built a fort at Ouiatanon, on the 
                        Wabash
                    , at the mouth of the Wea River, four miles below the present city
                    of 
                        Lafayette
                    , Indiana.7 The third fort, at 
                        Vincennes
                    , Indiana, on the lower 
                        Wabash
                    , was established before March, 1733, perhaps in 1731 or 1732.8
            
            Some form of war, commercial or otherwise, between the British and French was
                    bound to ensue. That the fur trade of the Ohio valley was
                    well worth a struggle, both sides knew. Collision first came in the spring of
                    1736, between the French and an Indian tribe devoted to the British interest.
                    The Chickasaws, dwelling south of the 
                        Ohio
                     and trading exclusively with the English, intercepted French
                    traders and threatened the French post at 
                        Vincennes
                     (commanded by the younger 
                        Vincennes
                    ). Bienville, governor of 
                        Louisiana
                    , determined to make war on the Chickasaws, and by doing so strike a
                    blow at the English trade. His plan was for D'Artaguiette, commandant
                    in the 
                        Illinois
                     and 
                        Vincennes
                    , to march south with a force while Bienville marched north, forces
                    to be united at a designated rendezvous. It was a good plan, only Bienville was
                    a month late. The associated French and Indians from the north proceeded to make
                    a war of their own and many were captured by the Chickasaws, including 
                        Vincennes
                     and a number of his officers. D'Artaguiette was killed in
                    the battle. The victorious Chickasaws then made merry, according to a
                    contemporary account, by burning the captives the same day, "from three
                    in the afternoon until towards midnight."9 It was
                    somewhat damaging to French prestige.
            Throughout the history of the French fur trade, the French suffered from a lack
                    of trading goods. This was 
                  
                     6 Pierre G. Roy, "Sieur de 
                                Vincennes
                             Identified," Indiana Historical
                                Society Publications, VII, no. 1.
                  
                     7 Oscar J. Craig, "Ouiatanon,"
                                Indiana Historical Society Publications, II, no.
                            8.
                  
                     8 Paul C. Phillips, "
                                Vincennes
                             in its Relation to French Colonial Policy," Indiana Magazine of History (December, 1921), XVII,
                            311–337.
                  
                            9
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                     especially true in the 
                        Ohio
                     region. Transportation of trading goods, whether from 
                        Canada
                     or from the lower 
                        Mississippi
                    , was a tortuous process. In 1735, we find 
                        Vincennes
                     complaining that in one order of goods his superiors failed to send
                    him shirts, guns, mirrors, combs, hats, powder, cloth, shoes, collars, and 2943
                    pounds of flour.10 Ten years later, during King
                    George's War, the operations of the British navy on the Atlantic made
                    it so difficult for the French to obtain trading goods that prices rose 150 per
                        cent.11 In October, 1745, we find Beauharnois, governor
                    of New 
                        France
                    , reporting home that because of the high prices of goods and the
                    low price of furs the traders "have been discouraged from supplying
                    themselves with goods, and notwithstanding I offered licenses for
                        nothing."12 The situation of the French fur
                    trade was desperate and required action. De Noyan reported from 
                        Detroit
                     in August, 1741, that "the English have been coming For a
                    Number of years to corrupt the Savages Within the Sphere of This Post, and I
                    Have resolved to have them pillaged. I will Begin by sending Them a
                        Summons."13
            
            Pillaging became a common device of the French, who made use of Peter Chartier
                    and a band of Indians. When 
                        Pennsylvania
                     complained (October, 1745) to the Iroquois of Chartier's
                    propensity for robbing the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     traders, the sachem Canassatego replied that he had spoken to the
                    governor of 
                        Canada
                     about it and that gentleman "said he knew nothing of the
                    matter." In behalf of the Iroquois, Canassatego added: "Your
                    Traders go very far back into the Country, which we desire may not be done,
                    because it is in the Road of the French."14
            
            Taking advantage of an almost exclusive trade in the western 
                        Ohio
                     country, brought about by Chartier's activities, the
                    French fur traders further depressed the prices of peltry.15
                    Such a policy did not meet with the approval of the savages, who undertook to
                    tell the French how they felt, in their customary gentle fashion. On one
                    occasion, when a French trader offered one charge of powder and one bullet in
                    exchange for a beaver skin, "the Indian took up his 
                  
                            10
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     11 Volwiler, op. cit., 42.
                  
                     12
                            Collections of the State Historical Society of 
                                    Wisconsin
                                
                      (
                                Madison
                            ), XVII, 449.
                  
                     13
                            Ibid., 358.
                  
                     14
                            Minutes of the Provincial Council of 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                
                      (
                                Harrisburg
                            , 1851), V, 24.
                  
                     15 Walton, op. cit., 153.
               
                     Hatchet, and knock'd him on the
                    head, and killed him upon the Spot."16 In 1747,
                    five French traders on the south side of Lake 
                        Erie
                     were killed by Iroquois confederates, who apparently desired their
                    permanent elimination from the fur trade.17 French officials
                    claimed that English traders had incited the savages to kill Frenchmen
                    "and there is very little doubt that the charge was true."18 Certainly one doubts that the fur traders of those days
                    lived the life of Riley.
            In the meantime, 
                        Pennsylvania
                     had been improving her relations with the Iroquois. At the 
                        Lancaster
                     treaty of 1744, 
                        Pennsylvania
                     undertook to mediate between the savages and 
                        Maryland
                     and 
                        Virginia
                     regarding the troublesome question of Indian land claims. In the
                    course of the council Lieutenant-Governor Thomas of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     told the Iroquois of the glorious British victories over the
                    French. The reply of the shrewd Canassatego was somewhat unexpected:
                    "You tell us you beat the French, if so you must have taken a great
                    deal of rum from them, and can the better spare us some of that liquor to make
                    us rejoice with you in the victory." Thomas gave them some in small
                    glasses, which he called French glasses. The next day Canassatego intimated that
                    it was a little distasteful to celebrate British victories by drinking from
                    French glasses: he desired to drink rum from English glasses, which were
                    considerably larger. Thomas acceded, informing the Indians as he did so, that,
                    "We are glad to hear that you have such dislike for what is French.
                    They cheat you in your glasses as well as in everything else." This
                    conference at 
                        Lancaster
                     had an important bearing on the fur trade. The 
                        Pennsylvania
                     trader extended the field of his operations. Under Iroquois
                    protection, 
                        He built his camp fires on the southern shores of Lake 
                                Erie
                            , and drove his pack-horses over the Scioto. A few of the
                            boldest hunted wild turkey on the 
                                Wabash
                            . The Indian soon learned who paid the best prices for
                                beaver.19
                  
                    
            
            In 1747, 
                        Pennsylvania
                     undertook to bring the Indians of the Ohio
                    Valley into commercial and political relations with the province.
                    George Croghan, on September 18 of that year, reported that the Indians south of
                    Lake 
                        Erie
                     were making 
                  
                     16
                            Minutes of the Provincial Council of 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                , V, 86–87.
                  
                     17
                            Ibid., 86.
                  
                     18 Francis Parkman, Montcalm and
                                Wolfe (
                                Boston
                            , 1884), I, 80.
                  
                     19 Walton, op. cit., 120,
                        152.
               
                     war on the French briskly "Butt is
                    very impatient To hear from their Brothers, ye English, Expecting a Present of
                    powder & Lead, which if they Don't gett … they will
                    Turn to the French. … 20 These Indians had
                    previously forwarded a French "sculp" to the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     officials. Weiser thought presents ought to be made to both the
                    Lake 
                        Erie
                     Indians and the 
                        Ohio
                     Indians. Accordingly 
                        Pennsylvania
                     made an appropriation for a preliminary present and Weiser divided
                    it between them. In the spring of 1748 the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     authorities sent Croghan to the 
                        Ohio
                     country with these two preliminary presents, amounting to a total
                    of $$200. Croghan proceeded to inform the savages that,
                    "I am sent here by the Honourable the President & Council of 
                        Philadelphia
                     to return You thanks for the French Sculp You sent down last
                    Spring." He also delivered to them powder, lead, vermillion, knives,
                    and flints, and a proclamation forbidding the sale of liquor to the Indians,
                    which traffic the savages had complained of. The natives said they approved of
                    the proclamation, as they had "suffer'd considerably by such
                    abuse." However, in calling attention to the Miami Indians, the
                    spokesman for the redskins declared: 
                        But, Brothers … there is a great Nation of Indians come from
                            the French to be your Brothers as well as ours, who say they never
                            tasted English Rum yet, but would be very glad to taste it now as they
                            are come to Live with the English, so we hope you will order some of
                            your Traders to bring them some.21
                  
                    
            
            In 1748, Weiser and the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     authorities planned to make a large present to the 
                        Ohio
                     Indians and invited 
                        Maryland
                     and 
                        Virginia
                     to participate in the love feast. 
                        Maryland
                     had no funds for Indian affairs and the 
                        Virginia
                     legislature declined, animated by "a growing jealousy of
                    the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     fur trade" and by the fear of losing their western land
                    claims. However, Governor Gooch of 
                        Virginia
                    , who was more farsighted, offered to help 
                        Pennsylvania
                    .22 The result was the two highly important
                    treaties of 
                        Lancaster
                     and Logstown. At the 
                        Lancaster
                     conference in July, 1748, the Shawnees were received in alliance,
                    after which the Iroquois formally introduced the Miami Indians, who were
                    received 
                  
                     20
                            
                        
                                    Pennsylvania
                                 Archives (
                                Philadelphia
                            ), ser. I, vol. I, 770.
                  
                     21
                            Minutes of the Provincial Council of 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                , V, 287–289.
                  
                     22 Walton, op. cit., 175.
               
                     as allies.23 At
                    Logstown, on the 
                        Ohio
                     a few miles below the forks, another meeting took place, at which
                    time the presents were distributed. The goods lay in five piles, one of which
                    had been sent by the governor of 
                        Virginia
                    . One pile went to the Senecas, one to the other Iroquois tribes
                    (except Tuscaroras), one to the Delawares, and the rest to the western tribes.
                    This treaty left 
                        Pennsylvania
                     in control of the fur trade of the entire Ohio
                    valley, north of the Ohio River, subject, of
                    course, to the competition of the French and a few traders from
                            
                  New York, mdu
                and 
                        Virginia
                    .24 The Treaty marks "the zenith of
                    English influence in the 
                        Ohio
                     region until after 1763."25
            
            In 1750, sundry gentlemen of 
                        Virginia
                     formed the 
                        Ohio
                     Company, with a view to planting settlers in the Ohio
                        valley. The executive committee of the company employed
                    Christopher Gist to explore the region and select land for them. Gist was told,
                    on September 11, 1750, that "the nearer in the Land lies, the better,
                    provided it be good & level, but we had rather go quite down the 
                        Mississippi
                     than take mean broken Land."26 In
                    February, 1751, Gist reached Pickawillany, chief town of the Miami confederacy,
                    located on the Miami River, about three miles north of the present
                            
                  Piqua, Ohio
               . He was delighted with
                    the country, declaring that it was 
                  
                     
                        fine, rich level Land, well timbered with large Walnut, Ash,
                                    Sugar Trees, Cherry Trees &c, it is well watered with a
                                    great Number of little Streams or Rivulets, and full of
                                    beautiful natural Meadows, covered with wild Rye, blue Grass and
                                    Clover, and abounds with Turkeys, Deer, Elks and most Sorts of
                                    Game particularly Buffaloes, thirty or forty of which are
                                    frequently seen feeding in one Meadow. … 27
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            The 
                        Ohio
                     Company was unable to settle the country, but their plans had an
                    important bearing on the fur trade and Indian relations. The company proceeded
                    to engage in the fur trade. They erected a trading post on Will's
                    Creek, a tributary of the Potomac, where quite a thriving trade developed. This
                    aroused the jealousy of the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     traders, who told the Indians "that the Virginians meant
                    to steal away their lands. This confirmed what they had been 
                  
                     23
                            Minutes of the Provincial Council of 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                , V, 307–319.
                  
                     24 Walton, op. cit., 193.
                  
                     25 Volwiler, op. cit., 67.
                  
                     26 William M. Darlington, Christopher
                                Gist's Journals (Pittsburg, 1898), 81–82.
                  
                     27
                            Ibid., 47.
               
                     taught by the French emissaries, whose
                    intrigues it powerfully aided."28
            
            While Croghan tarried at Pickawillany in February, 1751, chiefs of the Piankashaw
                    and Wea Indians came, seeking alliance with the English. Although Croghan had no
                    authority to do so, he drew up a treaty of alliance, which was signed by
                    himself, Gist, Andrew Montour, and three other fur traders. When Croghan
                    reported what he had done to Lieutenant-Governor 
                        Hamilton
                    , that gentleman was annoyed. He submitted the treaty to the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Assembly, but stated that he "had reproved Mr. Croghan for
                    acting in publick matters without his orders." The Assembly replied
                    that they would "readily concur" with 
                        Hamilton
                     "in any measures" necessary to prevent the
                    repetition of such an act in the future.29 Notwithstanding 
                        Pennsylvania
                    's reception of the treaty it was effective in fact. The
                    Piankashaws "helped to seduce other tribes from the French"
                    and killed seven Frenchmen. Thirty-three Piankashaws turned up at 
                        Kaskaskia
                     and obtained munitions from the French commandant on the plea of
                    making war on the Cherokees. The commandant discovered that the Piankashaws had
                    conspired with the 
                        Illinois
                     to kill the French as they came from church. With the plot
                    revealed, the French killed a number of Piankashaws and the 
                        Illinois
                     made prompt submission.30
            
            Later in the same year (1751) Croghan was again reprimanded by the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Assembly. He had persuaded the Indians that it would be a good
                    thing if the English built a fort in their country and as a result they had
                    asked that it be built. When 
                        Hamilton
                     submitted Croghan's report the Assembly declared that the
                    request of the Indians for a fort and the danger from the French "have
                    been misunderstood or misrepresented" by Croghan. As for the offer of
                    the Penns to contribute $$400 toward erecting the fort and
                    $$100 per annum for its maintenance, 
                        we could wish our Proprietaries had rather thought fit to join with us in
                            the Expence of those Presents, the Effects of which have at all Times so
                            manifestly advanced their Interest with the Security of our Frontier
                                Settlements.31
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  28 Parkman, op. cit., I, 59.
               
                  29
                        Minutes of the Provincial Council of 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , V, 522–526.
               
                  30 Clarence W. Alvord, The 
                                Illinois
                             Country, 1673–1818 (
                            Springfield
                        , 1920), 234–235.
               
                  31
                        Minutes of the Provinicial Council of 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , V, 515, 529, 547.
            
            
            In the meantime the French had not been idle. In 1749, it was reported to La
                    Jonquière, governor of 
                        Canada
                    , that the English traders at Sandusky were seducing the Hurons from
                    their allegiance to the French.32 La Jonquière
                    was indignant and ordered the traders seized. Four of them were brought to 
                        Montreal
                    , questioned and sent to 
                        France
                    . There they were finally released at the request of Lord Albemarle,
                    British ambassador to the court of Louis XV. The French government announced
                    that as a result of the interrogation of the prisoners, "It was proved
                    that the Governor of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     had actually sent Arms and Ammunition and other Presents to the
                    Indians to excite them to a War."33 While the
                    prisoners were still held in 
                        Canada
                     Governor 
                        Clinton
                     of 
                        New York
                     demanded their release on the ground that they had a right to trade
                    in the Indian country under the terms of the treaty of Utrecht, and complained
                    of the new French fort at Niagara, which he said was in Iroquois territory. La
                    Jonquière, in his reply, August 10, 1751, attempted to justify the
                    arrests and declared that the Iroquois were not British subjects.34
            
            French officials repeatedly blamed their Indian troubles in the 
                        Ohio
                     country upon the English fur traders. In 1747, Raymond reported:
                        
                        The only way to remedy it and to secure the fidelity of all the Savages,
                            the peaceful and Complete possession of all the upper country, and the
                            Entire Trade with all the Savages that dwell there, Is, therefore: to
                            deprive them of all Communication with the English.35
                  
                    
            
            Two years later (1749) the Marquis de la Galissonière, governor of 
                        Canada
                    , dispatched Céleron de Blainville into the 
                        Ohio
                     region to vindicate French rights. On his journey
                    Céleron warned 
                        Pennsylvania
                     fur traders to leave, gave "advice" to the
                    Indians, and buried leaden plates claiming the territory for King Louis XV.36 After the Céleron expedition "the
                    English were on the defensive."37 By some 
                        Pennsylvania
                     traders, Céleron sent a letter to the governor of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     declaring that he was "greatly surprised" to find
                    English 
                  
                     32 William Smith, History of 
                                    Canada
                                
                      (Quebec, 1815), I, 214.
                  
                     33 Jacob N. Moreau, A Memorial
                                Containing a Summary View of Facts, "being a
                            translation of Mémoire contenant le
                                précis des faits (
                                Paris
                            , 1756), published by the French Government" (
                                New York
                            , 1757).
                  
                     34 Parkman, op, cit., I, 79.
                  
                     35
                            Collections of the State Historical Society of 
                                    Wisconsin
                                , XVII, 474–477.
                  
                     36 Celeron's journal of the expedition
                            has been published a number of times. The most accessible edition is
                            probably the one in the October, 1920, issue of the 
                        
                                    Ohio
                                 Archaeological and Historical Quarterly.
                  
                  
                     37 Volwiler, op. cit.,
                        67.
               
                     trespassers on French soil. "I
                    know that our Commandant-General," he wrote, "would be very
                    sorry to be forced to use violence; but his orders are precise, to leave no
                    forign traders within the limits of his government."38
            
            Upon his arrival at Logstown, Céleron found the Indians there in an
                    ill humor. Joncaire having heard, "through some women of his
                    acquaintance," that a night attack was intended, Céleron
                    ordered "a ring of sentries" maintained. The next day he
                    delivered a conciliatory message from the governor of New 
                        France
                    . He had come, he said, 
                        to open your eyes to the designs of the English against your lands. The
                            establishment they mean to make … tend to your complete ruin.
                            They hide from you their plans, which are to settle here and drive you
                            away, if I let them. As a good father who tenderly lives his children
                            … I must warn you of the danger that threatens you.
                            … 39
                  
                    
            
            Céleron finally reached Pickawillany, chief town of La Demoiselle,
                    called by the English Old Britain. The Frenchman offered gifts and asked the
                    Miamis to leave their new homes on the Miami River and return to the vicinity of
                    the French fort on the Maumee, where they would not have to fear
                    "English seduction." La Demoiselle thanked Céleron
                    for the gifts and good advice. He promised to follow the advice "at a
                    more convenient time."
            If Céleron did no more, he at least "revealed clearly the
                    deplorable condition of French interests in the West."40 As a result a wave of alarm swept through the French outposts. Joncaire
                    reported that all the tribes of the Ohio valley had gone
                    over to the English. Raymond, commandant of the French fort on the Maumee,
                    reported in October, 1751: "My people are leaving me for 
                        Detroit
                    . Nobody wants to stay here and have his throat cut."
                    Longeuil, acting governor of 
                        Canada
                    , wrote home that, "We are menaced by a general outbreak,
                    and even 
                        Toronto
                     is in danger. … Before long the English on the Miami
                    will … get possession of Fort Chartres, and cut our communication
                    with 
                        Louisiana
                    ." Saint-Ange, commandant at 
                        Vincennes
                    , wrote "that a storm would soon burst on the heads of the
                    French." Each dispatch "brought news of murder." All
                    French officials realized that counter-attack was imperative. Raymond declared:
                        
                  
                     38 Parkman, op. cit., I, 45.
                  
                     39
                            Ibid., I, 47.
                  
                     40
                            Ibid., I, 51, 53.
               
                    
                    
                        We have made peace with the English, yet they try continually to make war
                            on us by means of the Indians; they intend to be masters of all this
                            upper country. … If the English stay in this country we are
                            lost. We must attack, and drive them out.41
                  
                    
            
            It was not enough to send letters to the English about their encroachment upon
                    soil claimed by 
                        France
                    . That had no virtue beyond annoying British colonial officials. In
                    1751 Joncaire, while on a tour through the Indian country, encountered Croghan
                    at Logstown and left with him a letter for Lieutenant-Governor 
                        Hamilton
                    . In due course 
                        Hamilton
                     sent the letter to the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Assembly. That august body, full of righteous wrath, declared that 
                        Pennsylvania
                    's Indian agents should be warned against accepting 
                        Letters from every inferior French Officer who shall presume to send down
                            his Threats or pretended Claims to our Governor, in order to give
                            himself an Air of Authority among our Indian Allies.42
                  
                    
            
            Nor was it enough to pillage the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     fur traders, though such action was not without effect. Croghan
                    alone claimed to have lost one hundred pack-horses to the French from 1749 to
                        1754.43 Even the offer of money for specified English
                    scalps did not make sure that the scalps would be forthcoming. Morris Turner and
                    Ralph Kilgore, servants of John Frazier, 
                        Pennsylvania
                     trader, were captured by Indians and taken to 
                        Detroit
                    . While there, a French soldier told them the French had offered
                    $1,000 for the scalps of James Lowry and George Croghan.44 What the French needed was direct, positive, offensive
                    action of a kind calculated to impress the 
                        Ohio
                     tribes. Only action of this nature could save the French fur trade
                    in that region. It came with the arrival in America of Du Quesne, new governor
                    of 
                        Canada
                    . Du Quesne was instructed (1752) by his government, relative to the 
                        Ohio
                    , to "make every possible effort to drive the English away
                    from our lands in that region, and to prevent their coming there to trade, by
                    seizing their goods and destroying their posts."45
            
            The Indians were to be told that they could trade with the English on English
                    soil but not on French territory. 
                  
                     41
                            Ibid., 1, 82–83.
                  
                     42
                            Minutes of the Provincial Council of 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                , V, 540–541, 547.
                  
                     43 Volwiler, op. cit.,
                            88–89.
                  
                     44
                            Minutes of the Provincial Council of 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                , V, 482–483.
                  
                     45
                            Collections of the State Historical Society of 
                                    Wisconsin
                                , XVIII, 121.
               
                     Now the centre of the English fur trade in
                    the 
                        Ohio
                     was Pickawillany. In 1750, with the permission of La Demoiselle,
                    the traders erected a building for their headquarters, surrounded by "a
                    high wall of split logs, having three gateways." Within this wall the
                    traders dug a well, which failed only in summer.46 There
                    were sometimes as many as fifty English traders here at one time. Longueil
                    reported, April 21, 1752, that it was these traders "who are the
                    instigators of revolt and the source of all our woes." From the French
                    viewpoint La Demoiselle was the "moving spirit of
                    disaffaction." La Jonquière had ordered Céleron
                    to attack Pickawillany, but that gentleman "could not or would not
                    obey." Action finally came, however, in June, 1752, at the hands of
                    Charles de Langlade, a young French trader of Michillimackinac. De Langlade led
                    a band of Indians into the 
                        Ohio
                     and captured Pickawillany. La Demoiselle was boiled and eaten. The
                    surviving English traders were plundered and sent to 
                        Canada
                    .47 Du Quesne reported to the home government
                    that the destruction of Pickawillany had 
                        added to the complete pillage suffered by the English on this occasion,
                            will discourage them from trading on our lands. … As the
                            Sieur de Langlade is not in the service and has married a Savage woman,
                            I will content myself with asking … for a yearly pension of
                            200 livres wherein he will be highly pleased.48
                  
                    
            
            It was certainly worth all of that amount to the French cause. In the spring of
                    1753, Du Quesne dispatched an expedition into the Indian country to erect French
                    forts. One was built on the site of 
                  Erie, Pennsylvania
               ; another, called Fort Le Boeuf, was
                    established on French Creek. The news of the French expedition was brought to
                    Sir William Johnson in April, 1753, by Indians, the savages arriving at
                    Johnson's house at midnight, "whooping & hallowing in
                    a frightfull manner." Johnson promptly forwarded the information to the
                    governor of 
                        New York
                    .49 In due course the letter reached Robert
                    Dinwiddie, lieutenant-governor of 
                        Virginia
                    , and since the leading role in resisting the French had passed from 
                        Pennsylvania
                     to 
                        Virginia
                    , it was Dinwiddie who acted. That gentleman dispatched Major George 
                        Washington
                     across the 
                  
                     46 Alfred T. Goodman, Journal of
                                Captain William Trent (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1871), 43.
                  
                     47 Parkman, op. cit., I, 81,
                            84–85.
                  
                     48
                            Collections of the State Historical Society of 
                                    Wisconsin
                                , XVII, 129–130.
                  
                     49 O'Callaghan, op.
                            cit., VI, 778–779.
               
                     mountains with a summons to the french at
                    Fort Le Boeuf: 
                        I must desire you to acquaint me by whose authority and instructions you
                            have lately marched from 
                                Canada
                             with an armed force, and invaded the King of Great
                            Britain's territories. It becomes my duty to require your
                            peaceable departure. … 50
                  
                    
            
            The French commandant replied that he would send Dinwiddie's letter to
                    the Marquis Du Quesne, but in the meantime he would stay where he was in
                    accordance with his orders. 
                        Washington
                     was told that the 
                        Ohio
                     country was French soil and as for the seizure of English fur
                    traders, of which 
                        Washington
                     had complained, that was his orders from the governor of New 
                        France
                    .51
            
            Various colonial governors in America warned 
                        London
                     of the French activities on the 
                        Ohio
                    , with the result that the Earl of Holderness addressed a letter of
                    general instructions to all governors in the New World, on August 28, 1753. They
                    were told to order the French to leave— 
                        But as it is His Majesty's determination not to be the
                            aggressor, I have the King's commands, most strictly to enjoin
                            you, not to make use of the armed force under your direction, excepting
                            within the undoubted limits of his Majesty's dominions.52
                  
                    
            
            The meaning of the above was a puzzle to some colonial officials. Who could say
                    what were "the undoubted limits" of British soil in the Indian
                    country? 
                        Pennsylvania
                     professed not to know, and with reason. But if 
                        Pennsylvania
                     didn't know, 
                        Virginia
                     espoused no such modesty. Dinwiddie thought he knew and proceeded
                    to act accordingly. The 
                        Ohio
                     Company had sent Captain William Trent to build a fort at the forks
                    of the 
                        Ohio
                    . In 1754, Dinwiddie instructed 
                        Washington
                     to "use all Expedition in proceeding to the Fork of 
                        Ohio
                    ." There "you are to finish and compleat in the
                    best Manner" the fort already under construction.53
                    While 
                        Washington
                     was marching through the wilderness, the French quietly came down
                    the Alleghany in boats (April, 1754). They landed cannon and demanded the
                    fort's surrender, "on pain of what might ensue."
                    Ensign Edward Ward, whom Trent had left in command, was forced to accede. Ward
                    went 
                  
                     50 Parkman, op. cit., I, 134.
                  
                     51
                            Collections of the 
                                    Virginia
                                 Historical Society, N. S. III (
                                Richmond
                            , 1883), 61–62. 1888), 61–62.
                  
                     52 O'Callaghan, op.
                            cit., VI, 794–795.
                  
                     53
                            Collections of the 
                                    Virginia
                                 Historical Society, N. S. III, 59.
               
                     back over the mountains to report the
                    disaster to 
                        Washington
                    , while the French built a large fort at the forks which they named
                    Fort Du Quesne.54 A curious feature of the episode is the
                    location of the English fort. All English sources agree that it was built at the
                    forks of the 
                        Ohio
                    . Jacob N. Moreau, official commentator for the French Government,
                    states positively that Trent's fort was not on the 
                        Ohio
                     at all but was located in the forest between the 
                        Ohio
                     and French Creek. The French, he said, burned the incomplete fort
                    and then proceded to the forks of the 
                        Ohio
                    , where they found "traces" of another English
                    fort. These "traces" they extended and used in erecting Fort
                    Du Quesne.55 The English and French accounts, in this
                    particular, are wholly irreconcilable.
            
               
                        Washington
                     was unable to execute his orders relative to the fort, but he did
                    encounter and destroy a small French expedition commanded by Coulon de
                    Jumonville. The French ever afterward claimed that Jumonville was assassinated
                    as he was having a summons read to 
                        Washington
                     and his officers.56 It is true that the
                    Frenchman had a written summons, but there was no time for its use. When 
                        Washington
                     appeared, the French seized their arms and 
                        Washington
                     ordered his men to fire. Probably the question of murder hinges
                    upon whether war or peace obtained. After the seizure of a British fort
                    "by planting cannon against it and threatening it with
                    destruction" both 
                        Washington
                     and Dinwiddie "acted much as if war had been
                        declared."57 One may observe that the
                    Anglo-French wars in America usually began with some overt act or acts rather
                    than with proclamations. Under such circumstances a military commander had to
                    decide on his own responsibility whether bands of his neighbors whom he might
                    encounter sauntering in the forest were peaceful or otherwise. In any case,
                    there could be no peace after 
                        Washington
                    's attack on Jumonville and it is usually said to have
                    opened the French and Indian War, although the honor is sometimes bestowed on
                    the French destruction of Pickawillany two years earlier.58
                    Certainly war was in being after 
                  
                     54 Goodman, op. cit., 62.
                  
                     55 Moreau, op. cit., N. Y.
                            edition, 12.
                  
                     56
                            Ibid., 13.
                  
                     57 Parkman, op. cit., I, 144.
                  
                     58 George Chalmers, An Introduction
                                to the History of the Revolt of the American Colonies (
                                Boston
                            , 1845), II, 263–264.
               
                     the Jumonville episode and the French soon
                    obtained revenge upon 
                        Washington
                     at Fort Necessity.
            After 
                        Washington
                    's retreat from the capitulation of Fort Necessity
                    "not an English flag waved beyond the Alleghenies" and most of
                    the western tribes "drew their scalping knives to aid the
                        French."59 There were many reasons why the
                    savages adjured the English cause. One was the notorious injustice to Indians
                    that obtained in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    .60 Conrad Weiser tried repeatedly to secure the
                    "administration of justice locally in Indian affairs." On the
                    frontier "very few magistrates … would administer law where
                    an Indian was concerned."61 Another cause of
                    dissatisfaction was the encroachment of settlers on Indian soil. The attempts of
                    Sir William Johnson and other colonial officials to run a line between the
                    Indian hunting grounds and the white settlements failed because the settlers
                    would not be bound. In 1749 Croghan warned the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Council that "the Indians Dos nott Like to hear of there
                    Lands being Setled over Allegany Mountain. … "62
                    
                        Pennsylvania
                    's "Walking Purchase" of 1737 rankled in
                    the minds of the savages for generations. But the vital, controlling cause of
                    Indian disaffection toward the British lies in the aggressive advance of the
                    French in the Ohio valley. Nothing impresses an Indian so
                    much as power. This thought is nowhere expressed more clearly than in the speech
                    of Hendrick, Mohawk sachem, to the 
                        Albany
                     conference, on July 2, 1754: "Look at the French, they are
                    Men; they are fortifying everywhere. … You are all like Women, bare
                    and open without any Fortifications."63 So
                    successful was the French aggression that the entire scene of conflict was
                    changed and "while the conflict in the West during King
                    George's War took place in the Maumee Valley near 
                        Detroit
                    , during the French and Indian War it took place east of the forks
                    of the 
                        Ohio
                    ."64
            
            The French had been compelled to make an eastward drive in the 
                        Ohio
                     area by the activities of the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     traders, who were five hundred miles west of the settlers'
                    frontier, and in a position to threaten communication between 
                  
                     59 Volwiler, op. cit., 88.
                  
                     60
                            Minutes of the Provincial Council of 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                , V, 87–88.
                  
                     61 Walton, op. cit., 160.
                  
                     62
                            
                        
                                    Pennsylvania
                                 Archives, ser. I, vol. II, 31.
                  
                     63
                            Minutes of the Provincial Council of 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                
                      (
                                Harrisburg
                            ), VI, 81.
                  
                     64 Volwiler, op. cit.,
                        59.
               
                     New 
                        France
                     and 
                        Louisiana
                    . Thus it may be said the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     fur traders were "chiefly responsible for the immediate
                    opening of the French and Indian War."65 Certainly
                    there is no doubt that it was, in America, a war for the control of the fur
                    trade. In 1766, Benjamin 
                        Franklin
                     testified before the British House of Commons: 
                        As to the 
                                Ohio
                            , the contest there began about your right of trading in the
                            Indian country, a right you had by the treaty of Utrecht, which the
                            French infringed; they seized the traders and their goods, which were
                            your manufactures; they took a fort which a company of your merchants,
                            and their factors and correspondents, had erected there, to secure that
                            trade. Braddock was sent with an army to retake that fort (which was
                            looked on here as another encroachment on the king's territory)
                            and to protect your trade. It was not until after his defeat that the
                            colonies were attacked. They were before in perfect peace with both
                            French and Indians; the troops were not therefore sent for their
                            defence. The trade with the Indians, though carried on in America, is
                            not an American interest. The people of America are chiefly farmers and
                            planters; scarce anything that they raise or produce is an article of
                            commerce with the Indians. The Indian trade is a British interest; it is
                            carried on with British manufactures, for the profit of British
                            merchants and manufacturers; therefore, as it commenced for the defence
                            of territories of the crown, the property of no American, and for the
                            defence of a trade purely British, was really a British war.66
                  
                    
            
            Since 
                        Franklin
                     was urging repeal of the Stamp Act, his remarks, though containing
                    much that is true, were exaggerated in certain particulars. The fur trade of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     certainly was an American interest as well as a British one. In
                    1754, it amounted to no less than $$40,000 per annum,
                    according to a contemporary estimate,67 and Doctor William
                    Clarke of 
                        Boston
                     declared (1755) that three hundred 
                        Pennsylvania
                     traders journeyed over the mountains each year.68
            
            During the course of the war there was little trade in peltry, but after the
                    defeat of the French in 
                        Canada
                     trade was resumed, in spite of the fact that technically war still
                    obtained. But actual hostilities had scarcely ceased before the savages were
                    claiming grievances. For one thing they objected to the large number of English
                    forts. The Canadian 
                  
                     65
                            Ibid., 22.
                  
                     66
                            The Debates and Proceedings of the British House of
                                Commons, from 1765 to 1768 (
                                London
                            , 1772), 181.
                  
                     67
                            
                        
                                    Pennsylvania
                                 Gazette (
                                Philadelphia
                            ), September 26, 1754.
                  
                     68 Dr. William Clarke, Observations
                                on the Late and Present Conduct of the French (
                                Boston
                            , 1755), 10.
               
                     Indians told Lieutenant-Governor 
                        Hamilton
                     at a conference in 
                        Philadelphia
                     in August, 1761 that, "We, your Brethern of the seven
                    Nations are penned up like Hoggs. There are forts all around us, and therefore
                    we are apprehensive that Death is coming upon us."69 The Christian Oneidas naively petitioned Sir William Johnson on August
                    30, 1762, "that these Forts may be pull'd down &
                    kick'd out of the way."70
            
            The newly acquired Indian tribes, formerly attached to 
                        France
                    , were quick to compare the treatment of the Indians by the two
                    nations. The French garrisons had always treated Indians "with
                    attention and respect." English officers gave the visiting redskins
                    "cold looks and harsh words." Those lounging around British
                    forts "met with muttered ejaculations of impatience or abrupt orders to
                    depart, enforced, perhaps, by a touch from the but of a sentinel's
                        musket."71 The British no longer felt the the
                    need to avoid offending the savages, who, "no longer important as
                    allies, were treated as barbarians." The Iroquois asked that the
                    officers at posts "behave in a brotherlike manner toward us."
                    The Indian complaints of ill treatment at forts, which were general, were not
                    believed by Major-General Jeffery Amherst, British Commander-in-Chief in
                    America, who thought the alleged ill treatment was probably "necessary
                    Checks which the Commanding officers are obliged to give them, in their Drunken
                    Frolicks." Amherst had little use for the Indians—in time of
                    peace—and he desired to abolish the giving of presents. He objected
                    to the large sums Johnson and Croghan were spending on Indian presents.
                    "Services must be rewarded," he wrote to Johnson, February 22,
                    1761, "but as to purchasing the good behavior either of Indians, or any
                    Others, is what I do not understand; when men of what race soever behave ill,
                    they must be punished but not bribed."72
            
            Johnson felt that it was necessary to purchase Indian friendship "with
                    favours and notice." The French, he said, realized that however
                    expensive it might be to give presents, "they wisely foresaw that it
                    was infinitely cheaper, and much more effectual than the keeping a large body of
                    Regular 
                  
                     69
                            Minutes of the Provincial Council of 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                , VIII, 642.
                  
                     70
                            The Papers of Sir William Johnson (
                                Albany
                            , 1921), III, 871.
                  
                     71 Francis Parkman, History of the
                                Conspiracy of Pontiac (
                                Boston
                            , 1851), 155–156, 163–164.
                  
                     72
                            The Papers of Sir William Johnson, III, 845,
                        515.
               
                     Troops in their several Countrys.
                    … "73 As Johnson pointed out, even the
                    presence of forts in hostile Indian country could not protect the fur trade.
                    That could only be done by the maintenance of friendly relations with the
                    Indians, and not only was it cheaper to do this by giving presents but it was
                    "more certain of success."
            It is necessary to emphasize the historical importance of Amherst's
                    policy relative to Indian presents. More than all else this policy was
                    responsible for the Indian unrest throughout America, an unrest that ended in a
                    war that cost the British many times more than the presents, not to mention the
                    losses sustained through the cessation of the fur trade during the hostilities.
                    It is significant that Amherst maintained his economy order over the protest of
                    every officer in America having anything to do with Indian affairs. Throughout
                    the country the Indians were talking of the matter. Croghan reported from Fort
                    Pitt in May, 1762, that the Indians declared that, "ye French was butt
                    a poor peple butt they allways Cloathed any Indians that was poor or Naked when
                    they Come to see them. … "74
            
            Amherst not only refused presents but made threats. He ordered Johnson to tell
                    the Indians "to adhere firmly to His Majesty's
                    Interest," for if they did not do so, 
                        they Must not only Expect the Severest Retaliation, but an Entire
                            Destruction of all their Nations, for I am firmly Resolved, Whenever
                            they give me an Occasion, to Extirpate them Root & branch.
                            … 75
                  
                    
            
            On April 30, 1763, Croghan reported to Amherst that the western Indians were
                    uneasy because the King of 
                        France
                     had ceded their lands without their consent. Amherst returned a
                    bombastic reply declaring that it was quite unimportant what the Indians
                    thought, "as it is to their interest to behave peaceably, and while
                    they continue to do they may be assured of His Majesty's
                        Protection."76 For a commander with but meagre
                    military forces available, Croghan thought "Gineral Amhurst"
                    as he called him spoke very rashly. Very soon it was His Majesty, or rather His
                    Majesty's representatives, who sought protection—and from
                    the Indian allies of all people! Under the circumstances it is ludicrous to find
                        
                  
                     73
                            Ibid., IV, 276–276.
                  
                     74
                            Ibid., III. 733.
                  
                     75
                            Ibid., III, 520.
                  
                     76 Volwiler, op. cit.,
                        162.
               
                     Amherst and Johnson seeking the aid of the
                    Iroquois (except Senecas) in putting down an Indian revolt.77
            
            During 1761 and 1762, several Indian plots were discovered and forestalled, but
                    in 1763 the storm broke. The leader was a chief of the Ottawas named Pontiac:
                    "The genius of Pontiac united and enthused the natives; the French
                    traders spread rumors to incite the savages against the English."78 It seems probable that French military and colonial
                    officials helped to spread such rumors by their indiscreet apologies for the
                    French withdrawal and prophecies of their early return. Pontiac afterwards told
                    Croghan (Novémber, 1765) that the trouble had been stirred up by the
                    French and called the Pontiac Conspiracy, a "Bever War."79
            
            The Pontiac revolt included the Senecas and most of the western tribes. For an
                    Indian rebellion, it was extraordinarily successful. West of Niagara, the
                    savages captured all English forts except two—
                        Detroit
                     and Fort Pitt—and these two were invested, with Pontiac
                    in personal command at the siege of 
                        Detroit
                    . Croghan reported to the Lords of Trade, that, during the summer of
                    1763, the Indians killed and captured 2,000 British subjects, drove thousands
                    "to Beggary and the greatest distress," captured and destroyed
                    nine forts, and plundered troops and traders to the extent of
                        £100,000.80 The Pontiac rebellion was only
                    put down with difficulty by energetic military expeditions under Bouquet and
                    Bradstreet (1764–1765) and the success of Sir William Johnson in
                    retaining the friendship of the Iroquois confederacy (except the Senecas). At 
                        Detroit
                    , Pontiac did not depart until a letter arrived there from the
                    French commandant of Fort de Chartres reminding the savages that Great Britain
                    and 
                        France
                     were at peace and ordering his "Dear Children" to
                    desist "from spilling the blood of your Brethern the
                        English."81
            
            A recent writer has made what the writer believes to be an ill-considered assault
                    upon the historical importance of Pontiac.82 He intimates
                    that Pontiac did not start the uprising that bears his name. If this be true,
                    then all the British 
                  
                     77
                            The Papers of Sir William Johnson, IV, 170, 172, 210,
                            235–236.
                  
                     78 Volwiler, op. cit., 164.
                  
                     79
                            Collections of the 
                                    Illinois
                                 State Historical Library (
                                Springfield
                            ), X, 53.
                  
                     80
                            Ibid., X, 256.
                  
                     81
                            
                        
                                    Michigan
                                 Pioneer and Historical Society Collections
                            (Lansing), XXVII, 653–654.
                  
                     82
                            
                                Randolph
                             G. Adams, "Pontiac," Dictionary of American Biography.
                  
               
                     and French military officers in America and
                    all the contemporary experts on Indian affairs, including Sir William Johnson,
                    were incredibly deceived. All unite in reporting Pontiac to be an Indian of
                    amazing ability and influence. In 1764, General Gage reported that the 
                        Illinois
                     Indians had been ready to treat for peace "till that
                    villain Pontiac got amongst them." The remark is indicative of the most
                    striking feature of Pontiac's career: his influence beyond his own
                    tribe. Both Gage and Johnson declared in December, 1764, that Pontiac's
                    influence extended to the mouth of the 
                        Mississippi
                    . Aubry, French governor of 
                        Louisiana
                    , told the British (December 20, 1764) that Pontiac "is the
                    firebrand of all the nations and it is he who excites them against
                        you."83 George Croghan reported in 1765 that
                    Pontiac was "a shrewd Sensible Indian of few words" who
                    commanded more respect among the western tribes "than any Indian I ever
                    saw could do amongst his own Tribe."84
            
            The Pontiac War interrupted the fur trade in the west for nearly three years
                    (1763–1765) and did enormous damage to the settlers upon the
                    frontier. The latter were opposed to the fur trade on the ground that the
                    traffic supplied the savages with arms and powder to use against the
                    settlements. In 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , the 
                        Cumberland
                     County settlers, who had suffered much during the hostilities, were
                    determined to prevent the resumption of the Indian trade. In the spring of 1765,
                    Croghan was ordered on a mission to the western country. The traders obtained
                    his permission to send their trade goods to Fort Pitt with the Indian presents
                    in anticipation of the re-opening of the fur trade. A group of settlers led by
                    Captain James Smith, disguised as Indians who came to be known as
                    "Black Boys," attacked the party, "killed a few
                    Horses, and burnt and destroyed above fourscore Horse-Loads of Indian goods;
                    amongst which, were the Presents purchased by Mr. Croghan, for his Embassy to
                    the 
                        Illinois
                    ."85
            
            On another occasion, one hundred fifty "Black Boys," led by
                    Smith and attended by three justices of the peace, appeared before Fort Loudoun (
                        Pennsylvania
                    ) and demanded to search all goods within the fort to see if any
                    trade goods were there. Lieutenant Grant, commanding, refused. The justices told
                    the 
                  
                     83
                            Collections of the 
                                    Illinois
                                 State Historical Library, X, 368, 385, 393.
                  
                     84
                            Ibid., XI, 53.
                  
                     85 Clarence E. Carter, The
                                Correspondence of General Thomas Gage (
                                New Haven
                            , 1931–1933), II, 284.
               
                     Lieutenant that they would not admit the
                    validity of "any Military Officers' pass of whatever rank he
                    might be."86 The "Black Boys"
                    presumed to issue passes for all persons journeying to and from Fort Loudoun,
                    even including British soldiers! Such a pass, given under the hand of Captain
                    Smith, read as follows: 
                        As the Sidling Hill Volunteers have already Inspected these goods, and as
                            they are all private property, it is Expected that none of these brave
                            fellows will molest them upon the Road, as there is [sic] no Indian Supplies amongst them.87
                  
                    
            
            General Gage reported in disgust that some of the "Black Boys"
                    had been brought to trial and acquitted and he had heard that some of the jury
                    were themselves "Black Boys"!88 He
                    reported to the Earl of 
                        Halifax
                     that the "Black Boys" had intercepted a sutler
                    taking supplies to the garrison of Fort Pitt and that, "The
                    Communication is become so dangerous, that even the Expresses are obliged to
                    proceed with Caution, and Stealth."89
            
            Gage was enraged and offered military aid to Lieutenant-Governor John Penn,
                    declaring that both government and law "seem in danger of entire
                        Subversion."90 The activities of the
                    "Black Boys" gradually receded but they did not disappear
                    until the outbreak of the American Revolution. In 1768, Gage, upon
                    Penn's request, ordered a detachment of thirty men and an officer from 
                        Philadelphia
                     to escort Croghan from 
                        Lancaster
                     to Fort Pitt, since the "Black Boys" had
                    threatened to destroy the Indian presents and kill Croghan.91 The latter went ahead before the troops arrived but the escort saved
                    the presents.
            All along the frontier, the settlers, who were opposed to the fur trade and hated
                    the Indians, seldom missed an opportunity to destroy a stray redskin. It was
                    "a long series of mutual grievances and outrages" between the
                    settlers and the western tribes that culminated in Lord Dunmore's War
                        (1774).92
            
            
               
                  86
                        Minutes of the Provincial Council of 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , IX, 270.
               
                  87
                        
                     
                                Pennsylvania
                             Archives, Ser. I, vol. IV, 220.
               
                  88
                        The Papers of Sir William Johnson, IV, 789.
               
                  89 Carter, op. cit., I, 62.
               
                  90
                        Minutes of the Provincial Council of 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , IX, 268.
               
                  91 Carter, op. cit., 1, 170.
               
                  92 Reuben G. Thwaites and Louise P. Kellogg, Documentary History of Dunmore's War (
                            Madison
                        , 1905), Introduction, ix.
            
            
            Throughout the history of the fur trade in the Ohio valley
                    complaint is made of the traders. 
                        Hamilton
                     of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     said they were "a very licentious people" and
                    Dinwiddie of 
                        Virginia
                     referred to them as "abandoned Wretches."93 Parkman wrote that the English fur traders were
                    "ruffians of the coarsest stamp, who vied with each other in rapacity,
                    violence, and profligacy. They cheated, cursed, and plundered the Indians, and
                    outraged their families. … "94
            
            Among such an assemblage of citizenry, the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     fur traders did not find it necessary to occupy back seats: they
                    were among friends. In a message to 
                        Hamilton
                     in 1754, the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Assembly said: 
                        We are now to join with the Governor in bewailing the miserable Situation
                            of our Indian Trade carried on (some few excepted) by the vilest of our
                            Inhabitants and Convicts imported from Great Britain and 
                                Ireland
                            . … These trade without Controul from either
                            beyond the Limits or at least beyond the Power of our Laws.95
                  
                    
            
            George Croghan had urged regulation of the fur trade for years. In 1749, he wrote
                    to a member of the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Council that "No people Carries on ye Indian Trade in So
                    Regular a manner as the French. I wish with all My heart ye Government of this
                    Province wol'd Take Some Method to Regulate ye Indian Trade.
                    … "96
            
            Sir William Johnson, under authority of the military commander-in-chief, tried to
                    regulate the fur trade and failed. The substitute plan of 1768, providing for
                    colonial control of the trade, resulted in virtual anarchy in the Ohio
                        valley. The 
                        New York
                     Assembly, seeing the desperate need for regulation, formulated a
                    plan in 1769, which they forwarded to 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and Quebec for their consideration.97 Such
                    proposals failed, as Lieutenant-Governor Cramahé of Quebec reported
                    home, October 31, 1771, because the interests of 
                        New York
                     and Quebec "differ too widely to expect they will ever
                    perfectly agree upon regulations."98 In the end the
                    problem of the 
                        Ohio
                     country was settled (1774) by placing it under the jurisdiction of
                    the Province of Quebec.99
            
            
               
                  93
                        Minutes of the Provincial Council of 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , V, 628, 680.
               
                  94 Francis Parkman, History of the
                            Conspiracy of Pontiac (
                            Boston
                        , 1851), 155.
               
                  95
                        Minutes of the Provincial Council of 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , V, 749.
               
                  96
                        
                     
                                Pennsylvania
                             Archives, ser. I, vol. II, 31.
               
                  97
                        Minutes of the Provincial Council of 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , IX, 642–643.
               
                  98 Victor Coffin, The Province of Quebec
                            and the Early American Revolution (
                            Madison
                        , 1896), 418.
               
                  99
                        Statutes-at-Large (
                            London
                        ), 14 George III, Chap. 83.
            
            
            By the treaty of 1783 that ended the Revolutionary War, the Indian country was
                    ceded to the 
                        United States
                     and Great Britain engaged herself to turn over the military posts
                    therein to the American authorities "with all convenient
                    speed." The British retained these posts for thirteen years, and both
                    the 
                        United States
                     Government and American historians have claimed that the principal
                    reason Great Britain desired the posts was the retention of control of the fur
                    trade. "The letters passing between Haldimand on the one hand and North
                    and Sydney on the other," says McLaughlin, "show that this was
                    in the minds of the Canadian authorities and the English ministry." And
                    it may now be stated positively, declares A. L. Burt, that "the British
                    archieves contain reams of documents which provide fine ammunition for the
                    American charge."100
            
            With close of hostilities, American fur traders swarmed into the western
                    territory in such numbers that Haldimand, governor of 
                        Canada
                    , warned the post commanders to be on their guard, as the newcomers
                    might try to occupy the posts. Canadian fur traders asked that new posts be
                    established. The enormous value of the fur trade goes far toward explaining
                    their anxiety. In 1785, the Canadian fur trade was reported to amount to
                    £180,000 per annum, of which £100,000 came from lands
                    belonging to the 
                        United States
                     under the treaty of peace.101
            
            On December 9, 1791, the merchants of 
                        Montreal
                     presented a memorial on this subject to J. G. Simcoe,
                    lieutenant-governor of Upper 
                        Canada
                    : 
                        We have ever deplored with the deepest regret the impolicy and want of
                            local information and lavish unnecessary concession which induced the
                            negotiations of the Treaty with America to lay at her feet the most
                            valuable branch of trade in this country by ceding so large a territory,
                            and thereby to present her with the means of our future subjection by
                            putting the keys of our remaining colonies into her posession.102
                  
                    
            
            A further reason for the retention of the posts lay in the non-payment of the
                    debts owed to British merchants by Americans. That the two were closely
                    connected was pointed 
                  
                     100 Andrew C. McLaughlin, "The Western
                            Posts and the British Debts," Annual Report of the
                                American Historical Association, 1894, 427; A. L. Burt,
                            "A New Approach to the Problem of the Western Posts,"
                                Canadian Historical Association, Report of the Annual
                                Meeting, 1931, 70.
                  
                     101 McLaughlin, loc. cit., 428.
                  
                     102 William Kingsford, History of 
                                    Canada
                                
                      (
                                Toronto
                            , 1894), VII, 845.
               
                     out by John Adams in June, 1785, when he
                    informed the Marquis of Carmarthen 
                  
                     
                        that the withholding the posts had withheld from our merchants a
                                    very profitable fur trade which we justly considered as our
                                    right; that the furs which would have been obtained, if the
                                    posts had been in our hands, would have come to 
                                        England
                                     in payment of debts to the amount probably of
                                    several hundred thousand pounds. … 103
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            In May, 1790, Gouverneur Morris told William Pitt that if it was the fur trade
                    that caused Britain to retain the posts, it wasn't worth the candle,
                    since the fur trade would center in 
                        England
                    , "let who will carry it on in America."104 Throughout the long negotiations over the retention of
                    the western posts the 
                        United States
                     government repeatedly mentioned the fur trade. Jefferson, as
                    Secretary of State, in 1792, in a long memorandum to George 
                        Hammond
                    , British minister to the 
                        United States
                    , again connected the debt question with the fur trade, and added a
                    new grievance. The retention of the posts, he said, would 
                        cut us off from the fur trade, which before the war had been always of
                            great importance as a branch of commerce, and as a source of remittance
                            for the payment of our debts to Great Britain: for to the injury of
                            withholding our posts they added the obstruction of all passage along
                            the lakes and their communications.105
                  
                    
            
            In the end, the British Government may have decided to yield posts, among other
                    reasons, because the wars growing out of the French Revolution had wrecked the
                    fur trade. Certainly British traders had sustained great losses. Then too, the
                    wars between the Indians and the 
                        United States
                    , ending with Anthony 
                        Wayne
                    's decisive defeat of the savages in 1794, had seriously
                    interfered with the fur trade. It is not surprising that the business was
                    scarcely mentioned in the negotiations preceding Jay's Treaty. In any
                    case, the fur trade could never again be important in the 
                        Ohio
                     country. The American states had ceded their western lands claims
                    to the general government, which had organized the Northwest Territory, into
                    which settlers poured in considerable numbers. This caused the fur trade to move
                    west.
            Unlike the Ohio valley proper, the Wabash
                    valley continued a thriving fur trade as did the Maumee country. By
                        
                  
                     103 Charles F. Adams, The Works of
                                John Adams (
                                Boston
                            , 1853), VIII, 269.
                  
                     104
                            American State Papers, Foreign Relations (
                                Washington
                            , 1833), I, 124.
                  
                     105
                            State Papers and Publick Documents of the U.S.,
                                1789–96 (
                                Boston
                            , 1815), 230–231.
               
                     the act of May 19, 1796, executing the
                    treaty of 
                        Greenville
                    , the Congress of the 
                        United States
                     laid down a boundary between the 
                        United States
                     and the Indian tribes and under this plan the
                    Maumee and Wabash valleys were
                    reserved to the savages. American regulations required the traders to be
                    licensed under $1,000 bond. The trade was for some years open to
                    British subjects but the act of April 29, 1816, declared that licenses should
                    only be issued to American citizens, "unless by the express direction
                    of the President of the 
                        United States
                    , and upon such terms and conditions as the public interest may, in
                    his opinion, require."106 Subsequently even this
                    limited privilege was taken away from the British.
            The importance of the fur trade in the Maumee-
                        Wabash
                     country is shown by the establishment of a government factory for
                    the fur trade at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , Indiana Territory, in 1802. The factory did "a
                    flourishing business" for a decade.107 In
                    September, 1812, the factory was burned during an Indian attack. With the
                    establishment of European peace in 1815, at the end of the Napoleonic era, fur
                    prices began to climb rapidly and new traders came to the Maumee-
                        Wabash
                     region. John Jacob Astor entered the trade before 1819. In 1822
                    Alexander Ewing, an old 
                        Pennsylvania
                     trader, settled in 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , and, with his sons, did business under the name of A. Ewing
                    & Sons. After the older Swing's death in 1826, the firm became
                    W. G. & G. W. Ewing. The Swings were at first friendly to
                    Astor's American Fur Company and obtained their trade goods from
                    Astor's man at 
                        Detroit
                    . In 1828, the Ewings made an arrangement with a 
                        New York
                     house, which supplied them with trade goods and sold their furs on
                    commission in America and Europe. This brought them into direct competition with
                    Astor's company, but the two firms continued to be friendly for a
                    decade.
            Both the American Fur Company and the Ewings had troubles with their traders, but
                    the Ewings were more diplomatic in maintaining internal peace. On one occasion
                    in 1828 one of the Rousseau brothers wrote to his employers:
                    "Gentlemen, i think you are very deceitful." The Ewings
                    handled the situation delightfully: they presented Mr. Rousseau with a
                    breastpin!
            
               
                  106
                        Statutes-at-Large of the U.S.A., I, 137–138,
                        469, 701; III, 332–333.
               
                  107 Edgar B. Wesley, "The Government Factory
                        System among the Indiana." Journal of Economic and
                            Business History, May, 1932.
            
            
            In the eighteen-thirties, fashionable people began to admire the silk hat. As a
                    result Ramsay Crooks, of the American Fur Company, wrote, June 17, 1838, that
                    "Rats, Beavers & Otters are dead stock." Beaver prices
                    tumbled and raccoon prices rose. This was a boon to the Maumee-
                        Wabash
                     trade since that region "produced enormous numbers of
                    raccoons" and as a result "became for a few years the center
                    of interest of the fur business of America."108 In
                    the ensuing boom of the trade, the Ewings and the American Fur Company engaged
                    in a trade war (1838). The following year a trade agreement was tried but it did
                    not work very well, so war was resumed. It was a cut-throat competition with no
                    holds barred. G. W. Ewing who was a member of the Indiana state senate,
                    introduced a bill in January, 1840, laying a heavy tax upon the American Fur
                    Company! The bill passed the senate but failed in the house. N. D. Grover
                    reported from 
                        Logansport
                     that if any legislator voted for Ewing's bill
                    "his Hide will be on the fence and well Stretched at that."
                    Ramsay Crooks was enraged at Ewing's bill. He "denounced it as
                    unconstitutional and planned resistance." Having failed to get this
                    bill enacted into law, Ewing privately wrote to Crooks suggesting that peace be
                    made! Crooks replied in some heat, on July 31, 1840: 
                  
                     
                        I have reflected on your course since the contract of 1839, and
                                    when I call to mind more especially your efforts last winter to
                                    legislate us out of Indiana, I should consider myself an
                                    unfaithful servant of the corporation I represent if I
                                    encouraged you to expect we can ever come to any mutual
                                    understanding. … The position you now occupy is of
                                    your own choosing and we have not the slightest inclination to
                                    change the existing relations.109
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            However, both firms used discretion for two years. In 1842, war was resumed on a
                    broad scale and was only ended by the bankruptcy of the American Fur Company.
                    That did not help the Ewings much as they too were in financial difficulties.
                    Also, the fur trade was dwindling. The lines of the Indian country in Indiana
                    had been gradually constricted, almost from the beginning. Most of the savages
                    had migrated and the years 1846–1848 mark the end of the important
                    period of the fur trade in the valleys of the Maumee and the 
                  
                     108 Paul C. Phillips, "The Fur Trade in
                            the Maumee-
                                Wabash
                             Country," Studies in American
                            History (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1926), 109.
                  
                     109
                            Ibid., 114.
               
                    
                    
                        Wabash
                    .110 It has been well said of fur-bearing
                    animals: "They recede with the aborigines, before the tide of
                    civilization. … "111
            
            
               
                  110
                        Ibid., 117–118.
               
                  111 Anonymous, "On the Fur Trade, and
                        Fur-bearing Animals," The American Journal of Science
                            and Arts (
                            New Haven
                        , 1884), XXV, no. 2.
            
         
         
         
            Pioneer Folklore Relative to Snakes
            R. W. TERHUNE, M.D.
            Throughout all time it has been the habit of mankind to worship anything which
                    seemed to him good or powerful, wonderful or mysterious. To the eyes of
                    primitive men, for example, what could have been more glorious and divine than
                    the sun, symbolizing to all as it did the source of heat, of light, and of life
                    itself?
            The Greeks loved to personify the mysterious forces of nature which at one time
                    had been worshiped as abstractions. Aesculapius differed from these. He studied
                    medicine and became the greatest physician of his age. He devoted all of his
                    time to the study of the human body and to its proper care. Great wonders were
                    accomplished by his wizardy. He was believed to bring the dead to life. His
                    success, unfortunately, was short-lived. Jealousy drove Zeus to destroy this man
                    of unusual power, but repenting, the god admitted Aesculapius into the company
                    of immortals on Mount Olympus. Temples were built to the great physician and he
                    was worshipped for two thousand years as the god of medicine in all of the great
                    cities of the ancient world.
            Primitive man, with his untutored mind and his unrestrained imagination was
                    impelled to worship whatever was awe inspiring for any reason. In the serpent,
                    primitive man found an animal that exerted a greater influence over him than any
                    other living thing. By its bite, it could inflict a sudden and mysterious death.
                    Without organs of locomotion, it could glide with incredible speed over rocks or
                    through dense jungles. It could hold so much of its body erect in the air that
                    it became a phallic emblem. Time could work no weakening spell upon it. Each
                    year, it cast off its old vesture and came forth in the new and resplendent
                    rainment of youth. It was believed that it never died a natural death. Such a
                    creature was sure to be deified wherever tribes of men lived over the earth.
            One characteristic of Aesculapius was the carrying of a wand or rod, around which
                    a serpent was gracefully coiled. One of his daughters, Hygeia, promoted health
                    and prevented disease by feeding and caring for the sacred serpents in the
                    temple. The effect of this activity upon the people was most remarkable. The
                    serpent came to be regarded as a  symbol of
                    good health, his chief power being to heal the sick. People believed in the
                    serpent as an antidote to its own venom and other deadly poisons. This belief
                    existed until the day when Christianity subverted the old creeds and became the
                    state religion of the Roman Empire. The Hebrew belief that there was but one God
                    was spread over the European world by Christians. The result of the
                    transformation was the passing of idols and old practices and even Aesculapius
                    drifted into obsecurity.
            The serpent was no longer considered a benefactor to man and slumped back to its
                    level as just a deadly, poisonous snake. Still, however, men believed in the
                    healing power of this despised animal. Physicians from the time of Galen until
                    the middle of the seventeenth century, experimented and found that diseases,
                    which were poisonous and deadly, could be cured by the essence of the serpent.
            When the essence of vipers was cast from the British Pharmacopoeia, people had
                    been coming to the New World in vast numbers for a century and a quarter. They
                    were a plain, practical people, devoid of imagination or love of nature. They
                    knew none of the mythological lore of the ancient world. They never heard Pan
                    piping or saw numphs dancing in New World woodlands. Though the trees that they
                    saw surpassed in majesty and loftiness the Druidic sanctuaries of Britain or the
                    oak groves of Dodona, their only thought in contemplating such magnificent
                    specimens was a calculation of the amount of hard labor required to send one of
                    them crashing to the earth. Nevertheless, colonists discovered interesting
                    species of poisonous serpents. But their only thought when seeing them was of
                    inflicting speedy death upon them as they did upon every other wild creature.
                    They even exterminated the deer, the passenger pigeon, and later the bison.
            In the stern contest with hostile Nature which the pioneers waged in the western
                    world they encountered many dangers to health and even to life. Malarial and
                    yellow fevers, typhoid fever, and small pox, none of which they knew how to
                    prevent or treat, exacted a heavy toll of lives, besides incalculable suffering.
            Poisonous snakes were another source of danger. Of these, the rattlesnake was the
                    most widely distributed and most dangerous. Also the copperhead and the moccasin
                    each  constituted a serious menace. Not only
                    the venomous but the non-venomous snakes were so numerous that the possibility
                    of sudden encounter with some variety of snake was never absent from the mind of
                    every settler. The pioneer woman, leaving the house to hoe in her garden, or
                    hunt the nests of straying turkeys, or pick the delicious blackberry, always
                    carried a "snake stick" in her hands for use in dispatching
                    any serpentine enemy which she might find in her pathway.
            Though the people of America, neither worshiped the serpent as divine nor feared
                    it as the incarnation of some evil spirit, they nevertheless often gave credence
                    to some very incredible superstitions—superstitions which the elder
                    Pliny would have recorded with the greatest delight in his "Natural
                    History." For instance, the pioneers of the Ohio
                    and Mississippi Valleys believed in the existence of a
                    "glass snake," so called because it was fabled to break, when
                    struck with a stick, into a score of fragments. Though the head of this snake
                    might not have more than two or three inches of neck attached to it and though
                    the reptilian heart might have been beating in a separate fragment of the body
                    several inches from the head, the eyes could still see and the brain preserve an
                    attitude of watchful waiting until the assailant had departed, whereupon the
                    bloody fragments would join themselves together in a few seconds and the reptile
                    would glide away with unbelievable celerity.
            A certain kind of snake, a rather heavy bodied black snake, was called a milk
                    snake. It was reputed to follow the dairy cows as they grazed in the fields.
                    When a cow was standing motionless or lying down in the shade to chew her
                    "cud," the snake would take the cow's teats in its
                    mouth one by one and extract all the milk it could hold.
            Another very horrendous reptile believed to exist in pioneer days was the
                    "hoop snake." It had a horn on its tail as sharp as a
                    cobbler's awl. When attacking a foe, whether man or beast, the hoop
                    snake took this horn in its mouth, assumed the form of a buggy-wheel tire and
                    rolled with great speed in the direction of its adversary. When within reach of
                    its enemy it uncoiled and stuck its horn deeply into the flesh of its victim. If
                    it happened to strike the leg, the recipient of the wound would die in a few
                    hours. However, if the person attcked stepped aside, the blow aimed at him  might be received by a nearby tree. In that
                    case the foliage of the stricken tree soon began to wither and fall to the
                    ground, and, in a few days, the tree would die.
            In treating persons for the painful and sometimes fatal effects of the bites of
                    rattlesnakes and copperheads, reliance was placed larely upon very free
                    stimulation with alcohol. Sometimes the amount of whiskey or brandy administered
                    to a sufferer from snake bite was so large that it might well be suspected that
                    death was due to acute alcoholic poisoning rather than to serpent venom.
            Decoctions of various plants and leaves were used, and the Old World use of the
                    flesh of the serpent and the external application of "snake
                    oil" to antidote the venom of its bite were of frequent application.
            There is an incident in the family history of the writer that he will now
                    recount. It did not occur in his time, but it is of such passing interest to the
                    student of folk-lore because of the ancient origin and beautiful symbolism of
                    the practices evoked by its occurrence, that a description of it seems
                    peculiarly apt in this article.
            In the year 1830, Garrett Terhune, great-grandfather of the writer, then living
                    in Mercer County, 
                        Kentucky
                    , decided to try his fortunes in the wilderness of 
                        Johnson County
                    , Indiana. He loaded his wife and nine children, together with his
                    worldly goods, including the family Bible, the chopping axes and the trusty
                    rifle, into two, four-horse covered-wagons and started on the toilsome journey
                    overland. The teams tramped laboriously over the hills of 
                        Kentucky
                    , through the dust and burning heat of August days.
            The 
                        Ohio
                     was reached at 
                        Milton
                     just across from 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana. The yellow flood was crossed on a rickety ferryboat. 
                        Madison
                     was then the metropolis of Indiana—the river port where
                    steamboats came to receive the various products of the farms of southern
                    Indiana, the town to which furs and venison, pork, wheat, and droves of hogs and
                    cattle were brought by slow stages for shipment. Climbing the long hill that
                    rose from the River on the Indiana side, was a laborious process in which teams
                    had to be doubled and each wagon taken up singly.
            Then followed a journey of sixty-eight miles to the tract of land in 
                        Johnson County
                     which had been selected for the future home. Confinement in the
                    jolting wagons was intolerable  to the
                    children, and all but the babies insisted on getting out and walking. The roads
                    were dusty on the hills, but muddy and almost impassable in the bottoms.
                    Sometimes the corduroy of the roads was so rough, or the gullies so deep, that
                    long detours had to be taken through the woods bordering the crude highway. The
                    little herds of cattle, hogs, and sheep had to be watched with the utmost
                    vigilance to prevent their loss.
            Each night a camping place was found near some spring or stream of water.
                    Sometimes two or three days were spent in camp in order that the horses and
                    cattle might pluck a meager sustenance from the green shrubbery of the thickets
                    and the scant grass of the open glades. While waiting for the stock to feed, the
                    women washed the much needed clothing, baked bread, made coffee, and broiled
                    wild game over the coals of a wood fire. The men mended broken harness, soaked
                    loose-tired wagon wheels in the creek, or replenished the scant larder by
                    hunting and fishing.
            The summer had been dry and through the hills of southern Indiana, the mud was
                    not troublesome, save in Bartholomey County, where torrential rains fell and the
                    roads became sloughs of mud with the chuck-holes hub deep in water. The movers
                    were delayed a few days at Edinburg because Blue River could not be crossed. But
                    soon the skies cleared, the sun shone with tropic heat, the river shrank to its
                    former level and the journey was resumed.
            All were happy to think that on the morrow they would reach the site of their
                    future home when an incident occurred which threw the whole party into a state
                    of terror from which they did not recover for days. Garrett Terhune was driving
                    the forward team slowly up a hill when a boy with blue eyes and flaxen hair, who
                    was running on ahead with eager footsteps, sometimes in the middle of the road
                    and sometimes exploring the thickets on either side, suddenly felt a stinging
                    pain in his ankle and looking down saw what he thought was a copperhead snake.
            With a cry of horror, the lad started to run for the wagons at his utmost speed.
                    On the way he felt a deadly weakness, his heart fluttered, he grew faint, the
                    world turned black before his dazed eye. When he reached the wagons, he had
                    barely strength to tell what had happened. His father immediately sought the
                    always ready jug of whisky and  poured a
                    liberal supply down the boy's throat. With a small rope he corded
                    tightly the already swollen leg and taking his unsterilized pocket knife, the
                    same used to cut off pieces of his long green tobacco, he scarified deeply the
                    wounds where the poisonous fangs had entered. As soon as this was done, the
                    boy's sixteen-year-old sister, whose teeth were perfect, applied her
                    lips to the bleding wound and sought by suction to extract as much of the venom
                    as she could. But the boy's condition was so alarming and the whole
                    incident so terrifying to the family, that they carried the sufferer as rapidly
                    as possible to a cabin in a little clearing about half a mile away. By the time
                    they reached the house, the boy was covered with a cold sweat and seemed near
                    death.
            To the great relief of the parents, the family in the cabin were hospitable and
                    seemed intelligent enough to be really helpful. They comprehended at once the
                    necessity for instant relief. The man, of the place took immediate charge of
                    things and to his wife and two grown sons, he said, all in a breath: 
                        Build a hot fire under the kittle! Git plenty o' hot water! Git
                            yer axes and cut that little blue ash tree down yander! Bring a big arm
                            load o' the leaves; Dig a hole in the gyarden, an' put
                            the sick boy in it!
                    
            
            All went to work with desperate haste. The kettle on the swinging crane in the
                    big fireplace soon had a roaring fire under it and was full to overflowing with
                    boiling water. The blue ash tree fell beneath lusty strokes of the ax; arm loads
                    of boughs were brought in, and the green leaves were put into the boiling water.
            As soon as the leaves were boiled, they were fished out of the blue water and
                    when cool enough were placed over the wound in a thick poultice. Then the boy
                    was carried into the garden, placed in the hole that had been dug, and covered
                    lightly to his waist with the fresh, cool earth. The man who lived in the cabin
                    in the clearing had perfect faith in what he was doing. The blue ash leaves, he
                    claimed, would work a magic cure. Moreover, he declared that by burying the boy
                    for awhile and then lifting him out the poison would be held down and buried by
                    the weight of the earth upon it.
            But in Garret Terhune's anguish of mind, he was not content to rely upon
                    magic in which he had no faith. So supporting the boy's head on a
                    pillow, he administered from  time to time
                    liberal potions of milk and whiskey, most of which were promptly ejected, but
                    which nevertheless helped to sustain the patient through his period of
                    depression. At night, he was moved into a bed in the house, and in two or three
                    days was able to be taken along with the wagons.
            To the practical mind of the boy's father, there was no magic in what
                    had been done. To him it was merely a local application of garden earth, a hot
                    fomentation of green leaves. But the writer, who now knows the origin of the
                    superstition "stretching dimly into the remote time, emerging darkly
                    out of the mysterious eternity," what that unknown frontiersman did
                    carried in its significance some of the most beautiful symbolism to be found in
                    the whole realm of folk-lore.
            In olden days severe illness of any kind was believed to be a form of possesion,
                    that is, an elf or evil spirit was thought to enter into the body of the
                    patient, or to jump upon his back like an old Man of the Sea and cling to him
                    tenaciously with arms tightly entwined about his neck. If such a patient were
                    temporally buried in the earth, the strange; hold of the evil spirit might be
                    broken, held down and suffocated by the weight of earth thrown upon him as the
                    patient was lifted out of his briefly used tomb. Sometimes when a patient was
                    being helped out of one of these temporary graves, the magician, or some kindly
                    bystander would say: "O earth, bear down with might and main!"
                    This explanation will suffice to make clear the purpose in view when the
                    author's grandfather was partly buried in the garden.
            Why the pioneer was so insistent upon the use of ash leaves requires a brief
                    explanation. In 
                        India
                    , central Asia, and southern Europe, there is a tree known in
                    scientific phraseology as the Fraximus Ornus. It is also found
                    in this country where it is popularly known as the "blue ash."
                    In olden times, this tree was much venerated and in the northern mythology it
                    was called "Yggdrasil" (the sacred ash), or "Tree of
                    the Universe" from which the gods formed mankind. It sprang from the
                    earth, but its trunk rose to the sky, and its branches supported the heavens. An
                    eagle with eyes like the sun sat in its branches and looked down upon everything
                    that was done in the whole world.
            
            The sap of the Tree of the Universe was as sweet as honey, and honey dripped like
                    dew from its leaves. At its foot was a serpent (evil or darkness) that
                    constantly bit at its roots. But the serpent could do no harm, for the leaves of
                    the tree had power to cure its deadliest venom. When our Aryan ancestors left
                    the cradle of the race, traversed Persia, Asia Minor, and southern and central
                    Europe, in successive migrations, and crossed the channel into 
                        England
                    , they carried this superstition with them. Two thousand years ago
                    Pliny claimed that ash tree tops and leaves were a remedy for serpent bites:
                    "For," said he, "There is such antipathy between an
                    adder and an ash tree that if an adder be compassed round with ash tree leaves
                    it would sooner run through fire than through the leaves."
            Such are the reasons why James Terhune, when bitten by a poisonous snake in a
                    little 
                        Johnson County
                     clearing, was medicined so industriously with the same magic blue
                    ash leaves that were used by our Aryan ancestors in their first home thousands
                    of miles away, and centuries ago.
         
         
         
            Indiana Historical Society
            CHRISTOPHER B. COLEMAN
            
            Beginning January 1, 1939, the price of the special publication of the Indiana
                    Historical Society, Prehistoric Antiquities of Indiana, by Eli
                    Lilly, has been set at ten dollars, including postage. New members elected by
                    the Society, who take out membership for three years (this would involve the
                    payment of six dollars for individual membership or nine dollars for
                    institutional membership), will until further notice receive a copy without
                    additional charge. Otherwise the volume will not be included in membership for
                    any year except 1938. Over two thousand copies have been sold, or distributed to
                    members for 1938, and a comparatively small number is still on hand.
            The next forthcoming Publication is "The Contribution
                    of the Society of Friends to Education in Indiana," by Mrs. Ethel
                    Kittle McDaniel of Wilkinson. This should be ready for distribution to members
                    and for sale at seventy-five cents by spring. The Committee on Publications has
                    on hand "A History of Camp Morton," by J. R. H. Moore and Mrs.
                    Hattie Lou Winslow, both of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . No announcement can now be made as to the probable date of its
                    publication.
            The Historical Bureau has offered to county and other local historical societies,
                    to be given as a prize in historical essay contests, a copy of the Indiana Medal, a book containing the Indiana medal executed by Janet
                    Scudder, the well-known sculptor, a resident of 
                  Paris, France
               , and 
                        New York
                     City and a native of 
                        Terre Haute
                    . The contests for the most part are to be open to high school
                    students, but, in some instances, to students of the eighth grade. The
                    arrangements for, and conditions of, the contest are entirely in the hands of
                    the local historical society availing itself of the offer of the Historical
                    Bureau. It is suggested, however, that the subject of the essay be chosen by
                    each contestant himself and that in the award emphasis be placed on research,
                    accuracy, and information not contained in printed county and state histories.
                    Such subjects as the movement of one's own family from Europe, or from
                    eastern 
                        United States
                    , to its present home, Historical events or movements connected with
                    a river or highway, the history of notable houses, early mills, ferries,  bridges, factories, and biographies of
                    local leaders (deceased) should be among those most likely to produce favorable
                    results.
            The annual meeting of the Indiana Historical Society in the Hotel 
                        Lincoln
                    , Friday, December 9, brought out reports of officers and committees
                    which show that the year 1938 had been a very favorable one for the Society. The
                    membership reported, 1276, is the largest in the century or more of existence of
                    the Society. Publications issued during the year have been of unusual importance
                    and have met with very favorable reception, not only by members but by reviewers
                    in historical periodicals. Many of the committees reported noteworthy activities
                    and results.
            A new departure in the History Conference was the preliminary organization of a
                    state-wide junior historical society embracing both junior societies and high
                    school history clubs. The meeting of these organizations at 
                        Marion
                     last spring was so successful that a second meeting will be held in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in the spring of 1939, with Shortridge High School as host. At that
                    time a committee on permanent organization is to report, and a permanent
                    organization is to be effected.
         
         
         
            History Teachers' Forum
            SOCIAL STUDIES IN THE HIGH SCHOOL*
            
            High school teachers of history are expected to do many things. Often they must
                    teach civics, economics, sociology, and current events in addition to history.
                    They are now almost universally designated as teachers of the social studies or
                    the social sciences. There is a chance for good work to be done where there are
                    several teachers in the department, for then there can be some division of
                    labor. In smaller high schools, the same person often has to teach all of the
                    social studies. The number of hours that high school students have the privilege
                    of taking in the social studies frequently calls for a sort of combined course
                    in several of the fields of social science.
            In such an assembled course, there may be little of anything well taught. The
                    discussions, when directed by a well informed and thoughtful teacher, can be
                    very interesting and helpful, but, if such courses encroach on the history work,
                    which is basic, the result is apt to be harmful to both teachers and students.
                    The teaching and study of a mass of varied subject-matter drawn from all of the
                    social sciences including current events is not apt to develop habits of
                    accuracy or lead to definite information. The teacher of such a course to be at
                    all successful must be widely read and be a constant student of a great variety
                    of current problems, for many of which no solution has as yet been discovered. A
                    teacher of social studies, with many and exacting extra-curricular duties,
                    surely finds it difficult at the best, to keep up in one or two of the social
                    sciences. It is expecting something little short of the miraculous that a high
                    school teacher shall be adequately informed in several difficult fields.
            The truth must be that few of those who teach orientation courses in social
                    science to high school students have any very clear ideas to present. One
                    wonders if the circumstances do not tempt or lead such teachers to become more
                    or less glib and fluent talkers whose superficial comment on social, economic
                    and political questions evaporates rapidly into thin air. One also wonders if
                    what the young boys and girls 
                  
                     * This article is presented by the Editor, who was once a teacher of history, civics and
                            economics in a high school, in the hope that it will provoke present
                            high school teachers to write in defense of prevailing social studies
                            courses.
               
                     carry away from such courses can be worth
                    much. With these troubling doubts in mind, the question naturally arises whether
                    it would not be a return to sanity if history courses were again to be more
                    strongly stressed. Basic courses in. European and American history have much to
                    be said in their favor.
            The subject-matter of history is tangible and interesting. Students can be
                    trained to do accurate and thoughtful work. They can discover how geography and
                    economic conditions have reacted on leaders and masses of people in the past,
                    and in turn how the human factor has entered in to help determine the direction
                    of the currents of history. Social, economic and political problems can not be
                    solved by high school students even if they give all their time to their study,
                    but, when studying history, they can be introduced to all of them. Every day, as
                    they learn history, they can observe the influence of geography and discover the
                    importance of the problems that from time to time confront society, the business
                    world, and agencies of government. The subject-matter of any course in history
                    is a laboratory and the facts are real chemicals with which students and
                    teachers may deal.
         
         
         
            Documents
            DANGER ON WABASH
            
               
                        Vincennes
                     Letters of 1786
            Edited by LEONARD C. HELDERMAN
            
            On his second westward journey in 1785, John Filson arrived at 
                        Vincennes
                     "about Christmas."1 Here he
                    remained until June 1, 1786, when, attempting to reach the Falls of 
                        Ohio
                     by the long water passage, he was attacked by Indians some miles
                    below 
                        Vincennes
                     and fled back to the Post in what he frankly admitted was
                    "defeat". After spending ten days recuperating from his
                    harrowing experiences, varied by "some sportive exercises to prevent a
                    malady," he shook the dust of the village from his feet on June 12,
                    and, after "seven painful days", arrived safely at the Falls
                    of 
                        Ohio
                     by the overland route. Before taking the long trail to the scenes
                    of his youth on the banks of the Brandywine—eight hundred miles by
                    horseback over the Wilderness Road and up the Valley of 
                        Virginia
                    —he wrote out his account of his "defeat on 
                        Wabash
                    ".2
            
            During the period of approximately eleven months from the time that Filson
                    arrived at 
                        Vincennes
                     and the time when he made his will on November 21, 1786, in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , many things were happening in the West and particularly in 
                        Vincennes
                    . Below the 
                        Ohio
                    , the haughty Spaniard occupied the area to the Walnut Hills and,
                    beyond the 
                        Mississippi
                    , his dominion stretched unbroken to the far Pacific. To the
                    northward, the British held 
                        Canada
                     and American forts to the south of the Great Lakes. The powerful
                    Indian tribes of the Northwest were conferring with Capt. Joseph Brant looking
                    toward an alliance with the Six Nations. When Tecumseh was a brave of eighteen
                    summers, the Indians were heard to say that, with their women and children at
                    their backs, they would hold their lands against the American pioneers. At this
                    time (1786), George Rogers Clark was touring the Blue-grass for volunteers,
                    preparing to march to 
                        Vincennes
                     again.3
            
            
               
                  1 The Journal of these voyages has
                        been edited by Beverly W. Bond, "Two Westward Journeys of John
                        Filson, 1785," 
                     Mississippi Valley
                            Historical Review (1923). IX, 320–330.
               
                  2 The Narrative of this adventure
                        has been edited by L. C. Helderman, "John Filson's Defeat
                        on the 
                            Wabash
                        , 1786," Filson Club History
                        Quarterly (Oct., 1938), XII, 187–199.
               
                  3 L. C. Helderman, "The Northwest Expedition
                        of George Rogers Clark, 1786," 
                     Mississippi
                                Valley Historical Review (December, 1938). XXV.
                        317–334.
            
            
            As early as March of 1786, Filson had joined in an appeal to Clark for aid
                    against the probability of "total depopulation" of the
                    American inhabitants. And when he reached the Falls on June 19, he carried a
                    petition to Congress and a second appeal to Clark. The situation at 
                        Vincennes
                     reached a crisis between June 21 and the end of July and other
                    letters came to Clark. This correspondence, hitherto unpublished, presents an
                    interesting picture of the plight of the American families at 
                        Vincennes
                     in the summer of 1786, and provides a background for the ill-fated
                    expedition which Clark led against the 
                        Wabash
                     tribes in the autumn of that year. They illustrate the conflict of
                    French and American ways of life at 
                        Vincennes
                    , the rising Indian menace, the possibilities of British
                    re-occupation, and the crying need for organized government in the Northwest.
                    They particularly reveal the land hunger of the pioneer, usually a squatter, or
                    "first settler" as he preferred to be called, moving into rich
                    lands in advance of land offices, surveys and titles. Under pressure of these
                    forces, Congress at length passed the Ordinance of 1787 and took military
                    possession of 
                        Vincennes
                    .
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    [The Letters],
                                    
                                        
                                 Post St. Vincent,
                              
                                        March 16, 1786
                                    
                                    Sir
                                
                        We the subscribers at the request of the french and american
                                    inhabitants of this place, desire to inform you of the situation
                                    of affairs here humbly praying your Patronage and direction.
                                    This place that once trembled at your victorious arms, and these
                                    savages overawed by your superior power is now entirely
                                    anarchial, and we shuder at the daily expectation of horrid
                                    murthers and probably total depopulation of the americans by
                                    imperious savages, daily information of their hostile
                                    disposition, puts this beyond a doubt therefore we can assure
                                    you, Sir, that in our opinion (defenceless as we are) they most
                                    certainly will effect their designs, which for some time they
                                    have determined in their Councils and at this period the bloody
                                    scenes is in maturity. We are lately informed that government
                                    has ordered a number of troops for this place.4 We hope this agreeable news may be true, and pray you to
                                    expedite their march if possible. If this is only report, we beg
                                    you will immediately represent us to government, urging the
                                    necessity of such a procedure, having been sensible for some
                                    time of our unhappy situation we have unanimously agreed to
                                    present a petition to Congress for relief, apprehensive that the
                                    Deeds 
                              
                                 4 Early in 1785, Congress resolved
                                            to hold an Indian Conference at 
                                                Vincennes
                                            , and then appointed commissioners and
                                            authorized troops. These negotiations were, however,
                                            transferred to the Falls of the 
                                                Ohio
                                             in June and to the mouth of the Great Miami
                                            in October. Journal of the Continental
                                                Congress, XXVIII, 180; XXIX,
                                            907–909. No troops were, therefore, actually
                                            authorized to occupy 
                                                Vincennes
                                             in March, 1786.
                           
                                     we received from an office
                                    established or rather continued by Col. Todd5 may possibly have a slender foundation so that after we
                                    have passed through a scene of suffering in forming settlements
                                    in a remote & dangerous part we may have the
                                    mortification to be totally deprived of our improvements. We beg
                                    you will write us your advice on this subject by the earlies
                                    [sic] opportunity, believing you are fully acquainted with the
                                    circumstances of our affairs, beg you will give us a
                                    demonstration of them. A number of inhabitants that settled in
                                    the country have retreated to town for fear of the Indians,
                                    & and it is possible in a few days we shall behold
                                    savage hands imbrued in the blood of our brethren. Knowing you
                                    to be a friend to the distressed, and posessed of humanity we
                                    therefore earnestly look to you for assistance and as in duty
                                    bound shall ever preserve your favors in grateful remembrance We
                                    are Sir your most obedient humbel Servts.
                        
                                    [Signatures]6
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    June 1, 1786
                                
                        The representation and petition of the subscribers, inhabitants
                                    of Post St. Vincent, in the County of 
                                        Illinois
                                    ,7 mostly humbly sheweth. That
                                    your Petitioners, having lately emigrated to this district,
                                    expecting to enjoy the blessings of peace and property, and as
                                    faithful subjects to the 
                                        United States
                                    , beg leave to represent, that searching for a
                                    fertile soil on the banks of Wabash river,
                                    was invited by the bounties of nature to settle our families
                                    here, to promote our happiness, being welcome by the french
                                    inhabitants, we obtained lotts in town and lands in the Country,
                                    by virtue of an office established here by Lieut. Govr. Todd,
                                    but many doubts have arisen amongst us concerning their
                                    validity, knowing that Mr. Todds appointment was at an unsettled
                                    period and probably invested with no powers or instructions to
                                    institute a land office. The french pretend to Claim a District
                                    of twelve leagues square including this town, but we are not
                                    confirmed that they have any right to such territory, neither
                                    are they8 But our disappointment in
                                    procuring property for our families, is at present the smallest
                                    evil we are involved in, being surrounded and invested with
                                    hostile savages, whose antipathy to americans, exposing daily to
                                    danger and frequent death, this our calamitous situation we
                                        
                              
                                 5 John Todd, a member of
                                            Clark's expedition during the Revolution, was a
                                            Scotch-Irishman from the Valley of 
                                                Virginia
                                            . He had been made deputy-lieutenant of the
                                            County of 
                                                Illinois
                                             in charge of the 
                                                Vincennes
                                             area. After the abandonment of the County
                                            of 
                                                Illinois
                                            , he removed to 
                                                Kentucky
                                             and was killed in the Battle of Blue Licks
                                            (1782). His papers are in the archives of the 
                                                Chicago
                                             Historical Society.
                              
                                 6 This bears the signatures of
                                            John Filson, Moses Henry, John Small, Alexander Willson,
                                            James Johnston, Luke Decker and John Decker. The style
                                            and handwriting, however, are Filson's. The
                                            letter was written to Geeorge Rogers Clark. Draper Mss.
                                            53J23.
                              
                                 7 The County of 
                                                Illinois
                                             was established by 
                                                Virginia
                                             in 1778, Hening, IX,
                                            552–555. It was renewed in 1779 to expire at
                                            the end of the legislative session of 1780. Ibid., X, 303. Since the act was not renewed
                                            again, 
                                                Virginia
                                             authority actually expired by 1781. 
                                                Virginia
                                             claims were, however, not ceded until the
                                            deed of cession was executed on March 1, 1784. In point
                                            of strict fact, therefore, the County of 
                                                Illinois
                                             did not exist on June 1, 1786.
                              
                                 8 Land claims in the 
                                                Vincennes
                                             area were based on varied titles: French
                                            and Indian, British, 
                                                Virginia
                                            , French magistrates, and American squatter,
                                            tomahawk or first settler rights. They were in the
                                            greatest confusion and not regularized until the
                                            creation of a land office after the Ordinance of 1787.
                                            These may be traced in Reports of the
                                                Canadian Archives (1885), Lasselle Papers (in
                                            the Indiana State Library), Calendar of 
                                                  Virginia
                                                 State Papers, Gage Papers (in the
                                            Clements Library), American State Papers:
                                                Public Lands, I; and C. E. Carter, Territorial Papers, II.
                           
                                     expect will be fully
                                    & truely explained to you by our truths. … We
                                    therefore look up to you the supreme authority of the 
                                        United States
                                    , as the guardians of our lives, liberty and
                                    property, humbly praying, that you will take us under your
                                    serious consideration & patronage; that you will of your
                                    clemency be pleased to ordain a permanent land office here, for
                                    the purpose of obtaining valid rights to lands, under the
                                    conduct of proper gentlemen, and considering us as the first
                                    settlers, labouring under innumerable losses and Disadvantages,
                                    be pleased to grant such portions of land for each settler as
                                    may in some measure compensate for our present pressing
                                    circumstances; Being now without order, law or government by any
                                    executive, which adds greatly to our distressed situation, we
                                    humbly pray that you will appoint a regular government in this
                                    place and territory, under the conduct of good men, as the
                                    Commandant and Magistracy of this place have resigned &
                                    refused to act on account of disobdeince in the people9; and also we pray that a strong garrison
                                    may be established here, for a support to the dignity of the
                                    Civil power, and a defence against imperious hostile savages. If
                                    your honorable body would be pleased to order affairs in this
                                    place, we humbly conceive that the banks of 
                                        Wabash
                                     would soon be inhabited by numerous valuable
                                    subjects; but should so valuable an acquisition of settlement
                                    and our distressed situation, be so unhappy as not to merit your
                                    attention, we must experience destruction which will totally
                                    prevent an emigration, which lately appeared the most promising
                                    and interesting, but this is most distant from our hopes and
                                    expectations; we your petitioners therefore hopeing to receive
                                    encouragement from your clemency, pray that this may have a
                                    gracious acceptance, and as in duty bound your supplinats must
                                    ever esteem you an inestimable blessing to them, and perpetually
                                    and gratefully remember your favours.
                        
                                    Dated June 1, 1786
                           
                                    [Signatures]10
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                                        
                                 Post St. Vincent
                              
                                        June 12, 1786
                                    
                                    Sir—
                                
                        We think it our duty to inform you, the movements of the enemy,
                                    and diverse intelligence from different quarters. We are daily
                                    informed of their hostile intentions & wekly experience
                                    some melancholy affair amongst us. The 25th of May last one man
                                    was killed barbarously and another being in company with him
                                    near the town was taken and burned about Seven miles from town.
                                    The remainder of his body hung tip in a tree. … A
                                    party of frenchmen coming from 
                                        Illinois
                                     saw the body and brings account from that quarter
                                    that the americans are forted at Belle fountain11 and four are killed. The 
                              
                                 9 Filson's Journal of the
                                            preceding year dealt with "the domestic
                                            broils" of French and Americans. In part the
                                            trouble arose because the French magistrates attempted
                                            to control the sale of "the noxious
                                            juices" to the Indians and "the Court
                                            became in some measure the ridicule of the
                                            people." Father Gibault also spoke of the
                                            "accursed trade in eaudevie" and the virtual anarchy of the
                                            village. C. W. Alvord, "Father Gibault and 
                                                Vincennes
                                            ," American Historical
                                                Review (1909), XVI, 544–557.
                              
                                 10 This is signed by seventy-one
                                            heads of American families. As in the previous document,
                                            internal evidence of style and handwriting indicates
                                            that Filson was the author. This petition was sent to
                                            Congress by Filson. Draper Mss. 53J31.
                              
                                 11 Bellefontaine, near 
                                                Kaskaskia
                                            , has been called the first permanent
                                            American settlement in the Northwest. American families
                                            began arriving in the wake of Clark's Conquest
                                            as early as 1779. 
                                    
                                                  Illinois
                                                 Historical Collections, II,
                                        Index.
                           
                                     second day of June, the
                                    bearer, Mr. Filson, was attacked at the mouth of White river in
                                    his pirouge with three men, by a party of about 20 Indians. The
                                    pirouge & property taken but [by] the violence of the
                                    Savages, with his narrow escape, and the murder of two of his
                                    men. I hope he will live to inform you, he happily escaped to
                                    town, for which his countrymen here are much rejoiced. Yesterday
                                    an american who lived at Miami12 arrived
                                    here with his family being obliged to move on account of the
                                    savages. He brought a number of letters from traders, who left
                                    there for 
                                        Detroit
                                     this Spring all full of Indian war with the
                                    treatment which some english Gent, received from them, the
                                    letters concuring with his acct. inform us that 26 parties are
                                    gone to war upon Kentucke and this place13
                                    two Shawanese came here 4 days ago and tell us that on the Banks
                                    of the White river they saw a party of indians returning from
                                    Kentucke with 2 scalps & one prisoner they were from Ell
                                    river, and said they were at a Station near the falls. Today
                                    another pirouge and a family arrived from Wyahtinaw,14 and three families more expected this
                                    evening, in a few days that place will be evacuated two savages
                                    at different times and in midday have viewed; our fort tis
                                    thought to know our Situation, they were permitted to depart
                                    without injury for which we are sorry, now, Sir, you will
                                    reasonably conclude our Situation to be deplorable, about 20 of
                                    us are killed & wounded already, and what we must
                                    experience God knows but unless assistance comes soon must
                                    probably experience destruction—if anything ocurs by
                                    the first opertunity we will in form you, the french are safe
                                    & much exasperated against us for writing some letters
                                    which we can support that contained nothing but the truth.
                                    …
                        
                                    [Signatures]15
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                                        
                                 Post St. 
                                       Vincennes
                                    
                                 
                              
                                        June 23, 1786
                                    
                                    Dr. Sir16
                           
                                
                        I am at the Disagreeable necessity once more to lay before you
                                    our Unhappy Situation at this place We are Dayly alarmed by
                                    Hoistile savages, whose Barbarities I can hardly Express Our
                                    Number is Continualy 
                              
                                 12 There are several letters in
                                            the Lasselle Papers addressed to a certain David Gray,
                                            "merchant of Miamitown." On March 23,
                                            1786, for instance, George McPherson of 
                                                Detroit
                                            , in one of them, relayed the latest gossip,
                                            the marrage of "Henry Ford to Miss Bella
                                            Andrews."
                              
                                 13 This account of Indian unrest
                                            conforms with reports circulating generally over the
                                            frontier in 1786. See Helderman, "Northwest
                                            Expedition of George Rogers Clark," loc. cit.; Capt. Ferguson to Harmar,
                                            Sept. 16, 1786. Harmar Papers, Clements Library. Here
                                            the intimation is of a general organized movement in
                                            alliance with the Six Nations to hold the Americans to
                                            the 
                                                Pennsylvania
                                             line and the 
                                                Ohio
                                            . The 
                                                Detroit
                                             garrison was being reinforced and Major
                                            Ancrum was sending nervous reports to his superiors. Report of the Canadian Archives
                                            (1890), Q Series, 175–176.
                              
                                 14 The evacuation of Ouiatanon
                                            confirms the reports of alarming Indian movements among
                                            the upper 
                                                Wabash
                                             tribes.
                              
                                 15 Signed by John Small and Moses
                                            Henry, and written to Clark. Draper Mss. 53J32. John
                                            Small had come to the area from 
                                                Pennsylvania
                                             and was regarded as the leader of the
                                            Americans. Ibid., 11J72. Moses Henry
                                            was an early American settler, having an account with
                                            Bosseron as early as 1778. Janet Shaw, "The
                                            Account Book of Francis Bosseron," Indiana Magazine of History (Sept., 1929),
                                            XXV, 212–241. William Clark, who came to 
                                                Vincennes
                                             in connection with the proposed Indian
                                            treaty of 1785, referred to Henry as a person
                                            "of influence among the Indians." Papers of the Continental Congress,
                                            No. 150, folio 42, 297–299. Major Hamtramck
                                            referred to him as "much connected with the
                                            Indians, particularly his wife." Draper Mss.
                                            1W394.
                              
                                 16 John Small to Clark. Draper
                                            Mss. 53J36, 38.
                           
                                     Decreasing and I fear that
                                    if your Excellency Does not speedily assist us we must
                                    Inavitably perish. Danger And Distraction stears Every american
                                    heer in the face, And Every Night we Look for a General attack
                                    on our small Garrison. As we are informed by the antient
                                    Inhabitants that a Large Body of the Enemy is on their way for
                                    that purpose. We have all Crowded into our small Port and have
                                    put ourselves in a posture of Defence. We are obliged to Confine
                                    ourselves to the Fort and Town not being able to work at our
                                    Corn for a furter sustainance on the 21th of this Instant Mr.
                                        Sullivan17 and a party of men was at
                                    work at their Corn, and was attacked by a party of Indians, they
                                    wounded two men, one of which they scalped and shot in several
                                    places the other is slitely wounded, the former is yet alive but
                                    no appearance of his Recovery, his name is William Donnally. he
                                    formerly resided in Clarksville Mr. Sullivan and his party drove
                                    the savages and on their return to the Village seized on an
                                    Indian who was then in the Village and the friends of the
                                    Wounded man put him to death Next Day we weare called together
                                    by Co. Legrass18 Who Was Very much
                                    Exasperated Against us for the putting the savage to Death in
                                    consequence of which the Heads of the French Inhabitants Gave us
                                    a piece of writeing ordering Every American that can not produce
                                    a passport to leave this place Bagg and Baggage Immediately. Mr.
                                    Sullivan produced a pass but they would not Look at it nor Give
                                    him no heering but ordered him to leave this place with his
                                    family at his own Risk and Peril without Delay the reason why he
                                    Received the above mentioned orders was in Consequence of
                                    putting the affore mentioned Indian to Death the savages some
                                    time ago Defeated a certain Mr. Filson near the Mouth of White
                                    River as he was on his way to 
                                        Cumberland
                                     from this place.19 Mr. Filson
                                    and one of his men made their Escape and got to this place And
                                    two of his men fell into the hands of the Enemy the savages took
                                    his Craft and Load and has since sold some of his goods to our
                                    people in this place. We Informed the french that the savages
                                    had sold Mr. Filsons goods in the Town but there was no action
                                    taken of them about it this Day the French ascorted several
                                    Indians into the Town which Indians we are shuer are our Enemys
                                    the French has repeatedly told us that they would keep the
                                    Indians at this place I send your Excellency inclosed in this a
                                    true Copy of the orders we Received from the French 20 ond we utterly Deny the whole Except the
                                    killing of the savage We now make Bold to lay before your
                                    Excellency our Unhappy Cirmustance & Humbly prays you
                                    would take us under your Consideration & Send 
                              
                                 17 Daniel Sullivan lived at a
                                            place called Sullivan's Station on Little
                                            River, near 
                                                Vincennes
                                            . He was a person of violent disposition and
                                            perhaps of dubious character. Certainly he was intensely
                                            hated by the French and Indians and suspected by Major
                                            Hamtramck. Draper Mss. 1W424–427. Sullivan
                                            later became sheriff of 
                                                Knox
                                             County.
                              
                                 18 Jean Marie Phillipe Le Gras, a
                                            native of 
                                                Montreal
                                            , was Commandant and the principal French
                                            inhabitant. Apparently a man of education and great
                                            force of character, he was highly regarded by American
                                            military officers who occupied the village in 1787. He
                                            died in 1788 at the age of 54. Lasselle Collection;
                                            Draper Mss. 1W397. The letter of Le Gras to Clark, as
                                            will later appear, is a dignified and convincing
                                            statement of the French viewpoint.
                              
                                 19 Helderman, "John
                                            Filson's Defeat on 
                                                Wabash
                                            , 1786," loc.
                                            cit. Small is here in error in supposing Filson to
                                            have been bound for 
                                                Cumberland
                                            . Instead he was on his way to 
                                                Louisville
                                            .
                              
                                 20 This copy was not found among
                                            the Clark Mss. of the Draper Collection.
                           
                                     us relief to Continue at
                                    this place or send us a party to guard us from this place, and
                                    if our property is sufficient we will fully satisfy any party
                                    that will undertake the same Sir I am with Due Respect your
                                    Humbl Servt
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                                        
                                 Post St. 
                                       Vincennes
                                    
                                 
                              
                                        June 28, 1786
                                    
                                    Hon'd Sire21
                           
                                
                        I take the Liberty on a Very pressing Occation to Communicate the
                                    Narrow Scope of affairs now under our present Deplorable
                                    Situation Which affords but a Gloomy prospect of preservation
                                    from the Cruelty of the Barbarian Designs, Unless intercepted by
                                    some Aid or Assistance from your authority, The Savages are
                                    Daily exercising their Inhumanity upon Us by murdering people
                                    frequently when at their Labour and is to be greatly believed
                                    that by the Indulgance of the French they will be tempted even
                                    to Sacrifice us in the bounds of the Town if it is within their
                                    powers; the authority of the Citizens have now openly
                                    Declar'd us to be no part of their Society in a manner
                                    expressive Saying that they knew not whether the place
                                    belong'd to the 
                                        United States
                                     or to Britain &c22
                                    —Again by Issueing a proclamation ordering every
                                    person here present that hath not an express permission from the
                                    Government he resided in Last; to remove himself bag &
                                    baggage immediately without Delay at their own risk through the
                                    dangers of the savage; & on penalty of being Treated ill
                                    by the power Invested in them; which will appear from a Copy of
                                    the proclamation to you &c You will now take these
                                    matters under a Serious Consideration which will Inevitably
                                    appear that a number of Gentlemen here Under reputable
                                    Characters have not such permission & Consequently must
                                    Share the Unhappy fate of those that may be found otherwise
                                    Unless a speedy relief by the Contribution of your Influence;
                                    & if nothing more Can be Done; To earnestly request the
                                    assistance of a Company of men Sufficient to Guard us from this
                                    place as it appears from all probability We can find no Shelter
                                    any longer; from these Sircumstances Your expediency will be
                                    acknowledged as an inestimable blessing from the Inhabitants
                                    & an Honour to Your
                        
                                    Most Obedient &Humble Servt.
                                    NB the savages at the upper Towns Burns and tortures all
                                        prisoners they now take. We are informed that they Burned a
                                        tall Likely younge man that they took from Keantucky
                                            Lately23
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                                        
                                 Post St. 
                                       Vincennes
                                    
                                 
                              
                                        July 22, 1786
                                    
                                    Dear Sir:24
                           
                                
                        I once more make bold to lay before your Excellency our situation
                                        
                              
                                 21 Daniel Sullivan to Clark,
                                            Draper Mss. 53J35.
                              
                                 22 One must estimate this
                                            statement in connection with Sullivan's
                                            bitterly anti-French sentiments. However, the
                                            possibility of a British re-occupation must not be
                                            rejected. It was widely believed by Americans, and some
                                            indirect evidence from British courses points to this.
                                            Helderman, "Northwest Expedition of George
                                            Rogers Clark," loc. cit.
                              
                              
                                 23 The Indian custom of burning
                                            prisoners is established by contemporary evidence.
                                            Ferguson to Harmar, September 16, 1786. Harmar Papers,
                                            Clements Library. There is also evidence that Americans
                                            scalped Indians, ruthlessly destroying their cornfields,
                                            plundering their towns and killing their old men.
                              
                                 24 This letter is signed
                                            "J. S." and addressed to Clark.
                                            Clearly it is by John Small. Draper Mss. 11J81. The copy
                                            used is a transcript made for Draper by Richard H.
                                            Collins in 1884, from a copy found "on the back
                                            of a blank deed … probably made at or about
                                            the time written." Internal evidence
                                            establishes its authenticity.
                           
                                     at this place. We was
                                    surrounded in our garrison the 15th of this instant by four
                                    hundred and fifty savages they made no general attack on us;
                                    they fired a few shot at Mr. Sullivans house in the night, and a
                                    few at the foart next Day, but did no damage We wounded three of
                                    the enemy. The French took arms and prevented them from entering
                                    the village and threatened them if they attacked the foart that
                                    they would undoubtedly strike them; and it had very near come to
                                    blows between them; the French gave them presents to a very
                                    considerable amount to go off, which they did; but threatens in
                                    roasting ear time to pay us an other visit; they killed and
                                    destroyed a very considerable number of cattle and hogs the
                                    property of booth French and Americans, and tuck several Horses.
                                    The French sustained far the greatest Damage, as they have lost
                                    several yoke of their work oxen; as far as I can learn, all the
                                    Indian tribes in the Quarter is fully bent on war—the
                                    last express I sent your Excellency was on their return to this
                                    place beat out of their cannoe by a partey of Savages on the 
                                        Ohio
                                     near the falling spring. They made the best of
                                    their way for this place and arrived safe. But did not overtake
                                    Capt. Patten.25 We hear that he Defeated a
                                    party of peankeyshaws on the Seleen, killed seven and wounded
                                    four of their principle Warriors, and is returned Back with
                                    plunder he took of a considerable value, which is all the
                                    account we can give of him. … Dear Sir, I hope you
                                    will take us into consideration as it will be impossable for us
                                    to stand without assistance. I am, Dr. Sir, with due Respect
                                    your
                        
                                    Obedient Humble Servt.
                                    J. S.
                                    P.S Sir the reason why I did not send an Express off sooner
                                        to you was on account that we were surrounded and detained
                                        to see the movement of the Enemy; likewise waiting for a
                                        Particular account of Capt. Patten on his arrival. But my
                                        grief is that I can give you neither as yet.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                                        July 22, 1786
                                    
                                    Sir—26
                           
                                
                        It is to give you a thorough understanding of what has taken
                                    place at this spot that I shall announce to you that the
                                    Americans established here have been very nearly lost, as I am
                                    about to tell you. The night of 13th-14th inst. there came to me
                                    a Frenchman sent on the part of the savages of different nations
                                    and tribes to warn me 
                              
                                 25 Before the arrival of
                                            Small's letter of June 23, James Patton and
                                            John Hardin, without orders from Clark, took two
                                            companies on what was ostensibly a relief expedition for 
                                                Vincennes
                                            . Their route was to go below the mouth of
                                            the 
                                                Wabash
                                             and thence up the west bank. Clark sent
                                            this express after them with orders to leave the 
                                                Ohio
                                             at about where 
                                                Evansville
                                             now is and proceed to the 
                                                Wabash
                                             and thence up its East bank. The
                                            Hardin-Patton expedition met with disaster. It appears
                                            to have been more an expedition to plunder friendly
                                            Indians than to relieve the Post. See letter of Col. Le
                                            Gras, infra, and Helderman,
                                            "John Filson's Defeat on 
                                                Wabash
                                            ," loc. cit.
                              
                              
                                 26 J. M. P. Le Gras au poste Vincenne, le 22 julliet, 1786, au
                                            Generale George Rogé Clarck, a
                                                la Chûte. Papers of the Continental
                                                Congress, No. 150, vol. II. Credit is due to
                                            Mr. Laird Thompson, formerly of the Romance Language
                                            Department of 
                                                Washington
                                             and Lee University, for the translation of
                                            this letter.
                           
                                     of their arrival, and that
                                    there were three young men of their party stopped on the other
                                    side of the river who were asking to speak. At the break of day
                                    I sent the interpreters, accompanied by a few other Frenchmen,
                                    to listen to them. They said they were sent by their chiefs to
                                    warn the French that they were fifteen leagues away, at a place
                                    called River de la Mothe, with all their young warriors to the
                                    number of four hundred fifty, for the purpose of exterminating
                                    all the Americans who might be in these lands, and to avenge the
                                    treacheries which they were undergoing each day and the
                                    inhumanity which they have but recently exercised on one of
                                    them, begging me to meet them the same day, that they would
                                    unbosom themselves to me, and did not want to enter the village
                                    without having spoken to me.
                        Immediately on the return of these gentlemen and after having
                                    heard them, I caused to be assembled the magistrates, officers
                                    of our militia, and many other Frenchmen, who all of one accord
                                    were of the same opinion, and appeared resolved not to permit
                                    the savages to inflict any insults on the Americans established
                                    among them. Delighted and satisfied at such resolution, I at
                                    once ordered Major Bosseron to set out immediately for the
                                    purpose of going to meet this savage party, accompanied by
                                    Vaudry and by these chief interpreters, Antoine Gamelin, Pierre
                                        Gamelin,27 and many other Frenchmen,
                                    having given him two peace pipes and two white flags to stop
                                    them for me, and in the name of all the French to tell them not
                                    to enter this village in such great numbers, and that we enjoyed
                                    them to return peacefully to feed their women and their
                                    children; that we were resolved to defend our neighboring allies
                                    and to oppose their incursion. Immediately following the
                                    departure of Major Bosseron, I saw to the guard of the village,
                                    by putting everything in good shape, spirits in good order, and
                                    arms all ready for repulsing the blow which was threatening our
                                    neighboring allies. And after having warned the Americans of the
                                    danger they were in by reason of the number and the disposition
                                    of the barbarians, I urged them to take every precaution to
                                    protect and defend themselves; and that I was working in
                                    conjunction with all the French to avoid this fatal blow.
                        Major Bosseron, having halted on the little rock three miles from
                                    the village,28 his two flags planted, at
                                    three hours after noon discovered this party doubling the point,
                                    arranging together forty-seven canoes on which were planted
                                    three red flags and two white flags. As soon as they had seen
                                    the French and the two flags planted on the rock, they came
                                    toward them and all debarked and shook hands and sat down very
                                    seriously. At once Major Bosseron caused to be lit one of the
                                    peace pipes to be presented to them by the hand of Vaudry,
                                    saying to them: "My brothers, I and all the Frenchmen
                                    whom you 
                              
                                 27 Francis Bosseron, Jean Baptiste
                                            Vaudry, Antoine and Pierre Gamelin were prominent French
                                            inhabitants. Bosseron, second only to Le Gras in
                                            importance was a merchant. His accounts are preserved in
                                            the Lasselle Papers. Those for the years
                                            1777–1782 are published in Janet Shaw,
                                            "Account Book og Francis Bosseron,"
                                                loc. cit., 212–241. In
                                            a deed dated May 20, 1786, Vaudry is referred to as
                                            "Interpreter of all the Indians."
                                            Antoine Gamelin is referred to as "notaire public au poste
                                                Vincenne," and Pierre Gamelin as one
                                            of the magistrates.
                              
                                 28 Petit Rocheer was about three
                                            miles above the village of 
                                                Vincennes
                                            , the site selected by Harmar for Ft. 
                                                Knox
                                             in 1787. Draper Mss. 1W426.
                           
                                     see here present are sent
                                    on the part of our chief, who has remained in the village to
                                    keep quiet the women and children, who are all in tears. It is
                                    you who makes them weep. He asks you what you mean to do by
                                    coming in such great numbers. Stop here and do not come at all
                                    around our village. You will see him, himself. You will hear him
                                    speak. Remember that the French do not like for blood to be shed
                                    on these lands." After having planted one of the flags
                                    in the midst of them and having thrown down some ten rolls of
                                    tobacco, all the war chiefs and village heads got up, each in
                                    his turn: "My brothers, we are accustomed to listen to
                                    you and to have you tell the truth; but see today twelve braids
                                    of hair out and all the young men arisen, all eager to take
                                    vengance on the Americans, decided to compromise nothing. Live
                                    in peace, you French; we have no design of striking you. But not
                                    to rebuff you, we are going to camp and await word from our
                                    brothers. Have pity on us, we are fasting. A party of our chiefs
                                    are going with you to salute Le Gras."
                        Major Bosseron and the gentlemen who accompanied him were
                                    surprised at their number and at their resolution to strike, and
                                    embarked some twenty war chiefs and village heads whom they led
                                    to me; and delivered several Frenchmen whom they had stopped on
                                    the way. These chiefs, on entering my house, shook hands with me
                                    rather coldly, without speaking to me. I kept six of the most
                                    respected and sent away the others with provisions for one day,
                                    strongly urging them to prevent their young men from approaching
                                    the village that night; that we and the Americans were on guard
                                    and had decided to open fire on the first person who presented
                                    himself. A part of the night I was in conference with them, to
                                    bring them to my viewpoint and to intimidate their spirits. The
                                    next day, the fifteenth, in the morning I prepared a present of
                                    trade goods to the value of five hundred
                                        "pontes"29 a peace
                                    pipe and a flag. After having given my orders to Major Bosseron
                                    to maintain the guard of the village, I embarked, accompanied by
                                    Vaudry and by these interpreters, Antoine Gamelin, Paul Gamelin,
                                    La Chinne, and many other Frenchmen.30 I
                                    found all the village heads and war chiefs seated on the river
                                    bank near the little rock, awaiting us, having arranged a place
                                    to receive us. I began to speak especially to three hot-heads as
                                    men feared among them. They decided to set out at once and
                                    without delaying longer, calling back their young men scattered
                                    on all sides. I sent some Frenchmen with them to whom they
                                    delivered two red flags which were brought to me. Having heard
                                    tell that there were some who were tearing down distant houses
                                    of the Americans where there was no one to pillage, I sent some
                                    of my Frenchmen there, who made them withdraw. After that no
                                    others have appeared, to our knowledge.
                        As we were beginning to flatter ourselves on an approaching
                                    peace, we almost lost all the hope and the trouble we had given
                                    ourselves, 
                              
                                 29 In the Lasselle Papers is a
                                            promissory note given by P. Barron to Thomas Williams
                                            & Co., dated, Ouias, le 1 Juin
                                            1785 and promising to pay a certain number of "pontes, Chelins and
                                                pences."
                              
                              
                                 30 In the Lasselle Papers is a
                                            list of witnesses to the marriage contract of Paul
                                            Gamelin and Marguerite Drouet in 1785. The witnesses
                                            were: La Chine, Francis Vigo, Gabriel Le Grand, Le Gras,
                                            and Francis Bosseron.
                           
                                     unfruitfully and without
                                    resource, by the arrival of some hunters of the prairies, who
                                    reported to us that the Americans in force, coming whence we
                                    know not, have fallen on a band of Piankiashaws of this village
                                    and a band of Miamis, and without inquiring if they were friends
                                    or enemies, attacked them and killed six and wounded seven, all
                                    children or descendants of the chief.31 The
                                    father-in-law of Pacanne was one of them, and the three nephews
                                    of Montoure.32 They left all their spoils
                                    and many bundles on the field of battle, a fact which was later
                                    confirmed for us. Happily for all of us, the savages had no
                                    knowledge of this affair, which would have enraged them; and
                                    urged on by fury they would no longer have been willing to
                                    listen to reason. But I greatly fear that as soon as they do
                                    know that, they will make a new attempt, either here or on some
                                    one of your villages. Note that it is for the second and third
                                    times that the Americans have struck the savages who are their
                                    allies, and who are every day among them by treaty in this
                                    village.
                        The 17th instant in the morning I armed a canoe with several
                                    Frenchmen to carry to the savages some fifty jugs of strong
                                    liquor. They rejoined them the same day, and since I had
                                    promised them this liquor to finish cleansing their hearts and
                                    entirely persuade them to return to their village, several of
                                    the old men left very quietly by canoe, awaiting this milk.33 And all the young men were already very
                                    far away. They accepted this liquor, which was turned over to
                                    them ten leagues above, with many marks of gratitude, and
                                    apparently expecting it, in view of the fact that I have been in
                                    the habit of giving to different ones a little present of from
                                    five to six bottles, as well as two beeves and two cows, and
                                    much bread which it was necessary to give them during all the
                                    councils, without forgetting the cup of milk. We have through
                                    precaution continued the guard during a few days, to avoid any
                                    surprise and to keep the spirits in good humor.
                        Despite all the pains I have thus given myself as well as all the
                                    French, and the precautions we have taken to keep the savages
                                    respectful by keeping them in close communication with us and
                                    the Americans, I greatly fear that this next autumn we shall not
                                    be able to succeed so well. For I foresee that unfortunately the
                                    savages will return in greater numbers. They have mentioned it
                                    on withdrawing, piqued at my having refused them the entry to
                                    the village. They said that they would return this autumn and
                                    that they would know how to make gates for entering without
                                    asking. This last affair of the Piankiashaws and the Miamis who
                                    were defeated on the plains by a party of Americans is going to
                                    annoy them greatly, authorize them and encourage them to join
                                    all together to form a strong party, in view of the fact that
                                    there are people of this village, allies of the 
                              
                                 31 This refers to the
                                            Hardin-Patton Expedition. See note 25, supra.
                              
                              
                                 32 In Clark's speech to
                                            the Indians at 
                                                Vincennes
                                             in October, 1786, he referred to
                                            "Panas a frenchman & Pacanne an Indian
                                            chief." Draper Mss. 11J108. William Clark in
                                            his report of October, 1785, referred to
                                            "Montour chief of the Piankeshaws,"
                                                Papers of the Continental
                                            Congress, No. 150, folio 42, 297–299. In
                                            the Lasselle Papers is a document signed "Jean
                                            Bte. Moutour X his mark."
                              
                                 33 Translator's note:
                                            "Clearly
                                            `lait'—milk—but very
                                            probably a localism not meaning literally
                                            that."
                           
                                     Americans, who believe
                                    themselves safe under our protection who have been killed,
                                    loaded with all the fruits of their fall, winter and spring
                                    hunts which they were bringing into this village to make their
                                    treaty. I do not know and cannot understand through what motive
                                    the Americans seek only to surprise and even betray those who
                                    are peaceful and their allies, which affords a pretext to all
                                    nations to band together and form numerous parties to attack
                                    entire villages. This last blow that outlaws have exercised on a
                                    man half dead, who was, so to speak, under French protection and
                                    who believed himself safe among us, was the pretext they have
                                    used to crush the Americans.34 I expect
                                        Lademoiselle35 from day to day, since he
                                    is one of the chiefs respected by this band which has always
                                    been kindly disposed. He has already sent me in advance some
                                    bits of black shell to indicate to me his grief and his sorrow
                                    at seeing themselves killed and massacred by allies not content
                                    with killing them. They have cut them up and have hacked them
                                    into pieces and morcels, worse than they, barbarians, a thing
                                    which is repugnant to nature and which the very savages disdain
                                    for the Whites. They scorn those of us who exercise such
                                    cruelty. The sole means of preventing the blow which threatens
                                    us is to gain Lademoiselle, principally, and afterwards the
                                    other chiefs who have suffered in this affair. But the outlook
                                    is very dark and altogether barbarous. I admit to you that I
                                    greatly fear I shall not be able to succeed. Courage does not
                                    fail me nor our old interpreter, Vaudry, who has put all his
                                    knowledge to work to succeed, and all our men in general are
                                    still viewing them for me with the greatest suspicion. I foresee
                                    that if we are not able to succeed and if the savages come in as
                                    great numbers as they propose, we shall not be strong enough to
                                    defend ourselves; and that we shall be crushed by numbers. I
                                    have already written you on the subject of the number of outlaws
                                    who have withdrawn here.36 I beg you a
                                    second time to take notice that many outlaws have slipped into
                                    this spot without permission and without my knowledge. The
                                    majority of them cause trouble in this country, and will without
                                    fail lead us to a total and irreparable loss if you do not
                                    recall them and make them withdraw from here. We also have one
                                    Sullivan who is a very dangerous man and pernicious to the
                                    public peace, whom we should all like sent away, and the sooner
                                    the better, to avoid greater disorder which he might cause, and
                                    to which his disposition continually carries him.37
                        
                        All that I indicate to you is pure and unvarnished truth, for
                                    which I take as witnesses all the French and Americans. I hope
                                    that my conduct and that of all the French will wipe out the bad
                                    impression and the inhuman character which a few Americans, by
                                    letters filled with lies, have imputed to us and by which they
                                    have wished to blacken us. I am always flattered that you who
                                    for a long time have known my character and that of all the
                                    French of this country 
                              
                                 34 Again referring to the
                                            Hardin-Patton Expedition and the affair of William
                                            Donnally.
                              
                                 35 An unidentified Indian chief.
                              
                                 36 Draper Collection. Not found
                                            among the Clark Mss.
                              
                                 37 Referring to Daniel Sullivan
                                            See note 17, supra.
                              
                           
                                     will have rendered me more
                                    justice, so that several of these gentlemen, to examine
                                    seriously our sad situation, weigh the balance of misfortune to
                                    which we are exposed. And despite my misfortune, I have made
                                    much progress toward stopping this party and fear to lose
                                    everything, not knowing to whom to address myself to be repaid
                                    for it. I and all the French could not praise you too highly for
                                    your manner of acting and for the good conduct of Colonel Small
                                    and of Major Moses Henry. Not only in this affair but on every
                                    occasion they have conducted themselves with all possible
                                    honesty, and have always treated us with confidence and acted
                                    with much freedom toward us. On our side we try each day to
                                    merit their confidences and to show them our appreciation of
                                        them.38
                        
                        I have the honor to be very respectfully, sir, your very humble
                                    and very obedient servant.
                        
                           
                              38 See note 11, supra. This letter ends on a note of Franco-American
                                        amity. John Filson was even more complimentary. Helderman,
                                        "John Filson's Defeat on 
                                            Wabash
                                        ," loc. cit. When
                                        Clark arrived in September, 1811, Le Gras and Bosseron led a
                                        force of French volunteers in his 
                                            Wabash
                                         campaign. Francis Vigo, however, was returning
                                        from a purchasing trip to 
                                            Detroit
                                        . Helderman, "Northwest Expedition of
                                        George Rogers Clark," loc.
                                    cit.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            Reviews and Notices
            
               The Old Northwest as the Keystone of the Arch of the American
                        Federal Union: A Study in Commerce and Politics. By A. L. Kohlmeier,
                    The Principia Press, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana, 1938. Pp. v, 257, $2.50.
            This significant monograph is concerned with the Old Northwest, its commerce with
                    the rest of the world, and its place in the Union. As a hinterland, its
                    well-being depended upon its ability to export its surplus commodities in
                    payment for its imports. There were three gateways for this commerce: the
                    southern, through 
                        New Orleans
                    ; the eastern, through the ports of 
                        Philadelphia
                     and 
                        Baltimore
                    ; and the northeastern, through 
                        New York
                     or the St. Lawrence valley. The area within the Ohio
                        valley was settled first by immigrants from the southern and
                    middle states, who used the southern and eastern routes. Efforts to connect this
                    region with the South Atlantic ports failed; the Great Lakes area was settled by
                    people of New 
                        England
                     ancestry, who used the northeastern route; and the Ohio
                        valley grew less rapidly than the newer northern portions of the
                    Old Northwest. Commerce tended to expand with increasing population and
                    surpluses, and the routes of trade were improved. Politicians struggled with
                    sectional interests in respect to land policy, tariff, and internal
                    improvements. Polk's policy of western expansion and reduction of
                    tariffs, and the repeal of the British corn laws advanced the interests of the
                    Lower South and the Great Lakes region but did little for the Ohio
                        valley. 
                        England
                     became more dependent upon wheat than upon cotton. The wheat
                    growing region, which became more firmly attached to the Northeast, secured
                    better prices and more settlers. The lower half of the Old Northwest, likewise,
                    became more firmly attached to the South, but its growth was now slower than
                    that of the nation as a whole.
            The danger of sectional cleavage in 1850 brought a realization of the value of
                    the Union to the Old Northwest. Efforts were made to bind North and South more
                    closely together, while transportation routes within and without the Old
                    Northwest were extended and improved. Little change resulted, however, and
                    exports produced north of the National Road were transported over the
                    northeastern channel while those of the Ohio valley were
                    sent through the eastern  or southern
                    gateways. During the middle fifties the sections struggled to secure the eastern
                    terminus of a proposed railway to the Pacific and sectional leaders again became
                    aggressive, but the west began to realize the importance of keeping all of its
                    commercial lines unbroken, because certain cities, like 
                        Chicago
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                    , were using all three outlets. Competition of the consolidated
                    railroads brought lower rates, thus proving the value of having alternate
                    routes. An enormous increase in the production of cereals and cattle in the
                    Great Lakes region enlarged commerce to the northwest. The eastern route,
                    drawing from the same area as well as the Ohio valley,
                    became almost as important as the southern route. The exports of the latter
                    increased absolutely but not relatively.
            Secession of southern states brought a crisis to the people of the Old Northwest. 
                        New Orleans
                     was a little less important to them, but the South was as important
                    in 1860 as in 1835. The railroads had not weaned the Ohio
                    Valley away from its connection with the South. "The people
                    of the Ohio Valley did not decide to fight the people of
                    the South so much because they had concluded that they could get along
                    economically without the south. … " Indeed, "they
                    believed that they could not get along without it." The Old Northwest
                    could not think of being divided between the North and South. It could not
                    become a part of either. Nor could it attempt to be independent of both. Only by
                    preserving the nation intact could it continue to use its three main avenues of
                    commerce. Early interference wit the trade of the Mississippi
                    River made easier its decision to deny the right of secession.
                    Because no other section had so much to lose by national disintegration, the Old
                    Northwest was the keystone of the arch of federal union.
            The work is written in a good clear style. The large amount of statistics make it
                    a little heavy in places, but it does not appear certain that they could be
                    relegated to footnotes or to appendices for they are an integral part of the
                    text. Documentation is quite adequate, but it is hardly a substitute for a
                    bibliography. The material has not been extensively used by historians and,
                    therefore, its presentation in bibliographical form would be all the more
                    welcome. It is doubtful whether the use of the term "Old West [pp. 129,
                    132, 146] conforms with the generally accepted understanding of the term.
            
            All who are interested in the history of the Old Northwest and its place in the
                    Union will find this a stimulating book. Students of Southern history will find
                    in it furture understanding of the failure of the Ohio
                    Valley to continue its traditional attachment to the South. While it
                    is an important addition to the literature of sectionalism, its chief
                    significance lies in its explanation of the superiod strength of national unty
                    in the face of sectional division.
            JOHN D. BARNHART.
         
         
            A great southern element migrated to Indiana between 1800 and 1860, and readers
                    of the Indiana Magazine of History are, therefore, much
                    interested in southern history. The Macmillan Company brought out last year the
                    first volume of a history of The Old South by William E. Dodd.
                    The author has long been a student and writer in the field of southern history.
                    The first volume, a book of over three hundred pages, covers the early colonial
                    period of the South, presenting the history of southern colonial developments to
                    1690. The second volume will deal with the South in the period from 1690 to
                    1754. Students of southern history will look forward eagerly to the completion
                    of the remaining volumes of this work by Professor Dodd.
            A Roster of Soldiers and Patriots of the American Revolution Buried
                        in Indiana was recently published by Indiana Daughters of the American
                    Revolution. The compiler and editor of the volume of Mrs. Roscoe C.
                    O'Byrne of 
                        Brookville
                    , Indiana. Mrs. O'Byrne who was State Regent,
                    1931–1934, and Vice President General, 1934–1937, is now
                    Chairman of Roster. This well printed, handsomely bound book of more than four
                    hundred pages may be purchased from Mrs. O'Byrne at $2.00
                    per copy. The volume contains a "List of Revolutionary Soldiers and D.
                    A. R. Chapters in Counties" (pp. 9–31), and Records of
                    Revolutionary Soldiers" (pp. 33–395) buried in Indiana, by
                    counties. The "List" and "Records" make up
                    most of the book. In addition, a few pages are devoted to the "Col.
                    Archibald Lochry Massacree," to a "List of men whose service
                    has not been verified," to "Revolutionary Pensioners who later
                    transferred to other States," and to "Indiana Pensioners in
                    other Wars." The  volumes carried a
                    full-length picture of Mrs. O'Byrne, and another of Mrs. William H.
                    Schlosser, the present State Regent. It may not be worth mentioning, but it
                    seems that the title of the book should have included the word
                    "Other" before the word "Patriots." In the
                    last paragraph of the "Foreword," the compiler states that no
                    claim is made that the list as published is complete. She further indicates a
                    desire that additional names may be furnished by any one having knowledge of
                    soldiers not listed who were buried in Indiana. The volume should prove very
                    useful to many persons, and it will surely be widely used.
         
         
         
            Editor's Pages
            LIVING IN A DISTRACTED WORLD, 1914-1920*
            
            WILLIAM O. LYNCH
            
            In one of James Whitcomb Riley's poems, a talkative, small boy and his
                    brother wander into the parlor and entertain a young man who has come to call on
                    their older sister for a while before the young woman makes her appearance. As
                    the little fellow chatters away, frequently verifying his remarks by an appeal
                    to his younger brother, he gets around to the tiniest member of the
                    family— 
                        Baby's a funniest feller!
                        Nain't no hair on his head—
                        
                     Is they, Charley? It's meller
                        Wite up there! An' if Belle er
                        Us ask wus we that way, Ma said,—
                        "Yes, an' yer Pa's head wus
                            soft as that,
                        An' it's that way
                            yet!"—An' Pa grabs his hat
                        An' says, "Yes, children, she's right about
                            Pa—
                        'Cause that's the reason he married yer
                                Ma!"1
                  
                     From the opening of the World War until after the signing of the peace
                    treaties, the World became more and more distracted, and, as it was with the
                    soft head of the husband introduced by the Hoosier Poet, the World is distracted
                    still. To carry the analogy a bit further, the powers are not only
                    "that way yet" but they were "that way"
                    before the war started in 1914, or the plunge would not have been taken.
            A volume, Europe Since 1815, by Dr. Charles Downer Hazen,
                    appeared in 1909. At the close of the first printing of the book, the author
                    stopped with this sentence: "The historian, having reached the point of
                    interrogation, may in all comity, leave the answer to his question to the
                    prophet or the future." The following year, a few sentences were added,
                    in which the author set forth the situation as it was in 1910 with remarkable
                    accuracy. The supplementary sentences, so profoundly significant: read: 
                        But he may observe, in closing, that contemporary Europe is dominated by
                            two great leagues, the Triple Alliance, consisting of 
                                Germany
                            , 
                        
                           * This is the twelfth and last
                                    installment of this autobiography. The first appeared in the
                                    issue of March, 1936, and a further chapter has appeared in each
                                    quarterly number published since.
                        
                           1 James Whitcomb Riley, "Prior to
                                    Miss Belle's Appearance." Rhymes
                                        of Childhood, Works of James Whitcomb Riley (
                                        New York
                                    , 1917), V. 191.
                     
                            
                            
                                Austria
                            , and 
                                Italy
                            , and the Triple Entente, consisting of 
                        England, France
                     , and Russia. The precise nature of these
                            combinations, the character and range of the obligations they impose
                            have never been made public. They constitute the very arcana of a
                            profundly secret and undemocratic diplomacy. The nations stand committed
                            to they know not what.
                        These two leagues confront each other, watchful, suspicious, portentously
                            armed. Professing peace to be their passion they press forward in
                            sinister and dangerous rivalry for military superiority, that is, for
                            the power to destroy. It is a strange and melancholy fact that that
                            society which is the heir of all the ages is more constantly obessed by
                            the thought of war and more unceasingly occupied by preparations for it
                            than the most primitive society of which history bears record.2
                  
                    
            
            A few weeks after the beginning of the World War, an article by Theodore
                    Roosevelt was published in the Outlook under the caption,
                    "The World War: Its Tragedies and its lessons." Never in his
                    career did the Colonel strive to be more calm and judicious. He was opposed to
                    pacifists, he was strongly for preparedness, he was sure that 
                        Belgium
                     was entirely blameless, yet he could write: 
                        I admire and respect the 
                                German
                             people. I am proud of the 
                                German
                             blood in my veins. When a nation feels that the issue of a
                            contest in which from whatever reason, it finds itself engaged will be
                            national life or death, it is inevitable that it should act so as to
                            save itself from death and to perpetuate its life. …
                        The rights and wrongs of these cases where nations violate the rules of
                            abstract morality in order to meet their own vital needs can be
                            precisely determined only when all the facts are known and when
                            men's blood is cool. … 3
                  
                    
            
            Americans, generally, were stunned by the sudden outbreak of war. After all, very
                    few citizens of the 
                        United States
                     knew much about Europe in 1914, and, while some improved their
                    knowledge between the summer of that year and 1917, the general run of our
                    people waited until we were in the conflict before their interest became real.
                    Then it was too late to study the background, and most Americans obtained a
                    "knowledge" of Europe that satisfied them in an incredibly
                    short space of time. The information acquired with such speed was inadequate,
                    inaccurate and highly prejudiced, but 
                  
                     2
                            Europe Since 1815 (
                                New York
                            , 1910), 786.
                  
                     3
                            Outlook (Sent. 23, 1914), CVIII, 172.
                  
                     4 Many times, I talked with good citizens, or
                            rather they talked fluently to me, who had gained a definite and
                            finished knowledge of Europe and the history of Europe within a very
                            short period. One who had read and taught history for a number of years
                            could not hold a candle to "fully informed" patriots
                            of this pattern.
               
                     with the rising war spirit, it was quite
                    fully and completely accepted.4 Until our country became
                    involved and recruiting actually started, most Americans were not deeply
                    affected by the tremendous struggle that was being waged across the Atlantic. I
                    feel sure that the masses of our people, both men and women, were glad that our
                    country had not been drawn into the whirlpool and remained hopeful that we might
                    be able to keep out. At the same time, there were elements that gradually became
                    more and more thoroughly anti-
                        German
                     or pro-
                        German
                    . Since we were not in the war, both groups could think and say
                    pretty much what they pleased. After America entered the lists as an enemy of
                    the central powers, the situation rapidly changed.5
            
            I had read enough history to know something of the force of war-time emotions,
                    but I did not at all foresee to what extent the people of the 
                        United States
                     would be overcome by the hysteria which our participation in the
                    great war brought on. The fundamental concept that only the truth matters, which
                    I had learned from inspiring teachers, had taken a deep hold on me. It had
                    indeed become a part of me, and I could not free myself from it even in the
                    midst of a war-torn world. I read and heard much, especially after 1917, that I
                    was sure was based on distorted information. There was little chance to combat
                    what was false in the propaganda that flooded our country, but I can say that I
                    did not at any time repeat any of it. I did, however, support the cause in which
                    we were enlisted in every way that I could. Further, I believe that it was
                    possible for me to understand the thinking and performance of those who so
                    readily became super-patriots better than they were able to understand my
                    attitude and manner of action and speech.
            There were those who profited greatly by the War in almost every community, and
                    likewise many that won prominence by their activities who might not have been
                    heard of otherwise. The patriotism of these classes arose from mixed motives.
                    The vast multitude of the people gained little in wealth or honors, but played
                    their parts with an unselfishness difficult to match in history. They made heavy
                    sacrifices without complaint, as long as they were called for, and rejoiced
                    deeply when the colossal struggle terminated.
            
               
                  5 Perfectly honest and worthy Americans, who had
                        leaned toward the central powers before 1917 and who did not face about
                        quickly, fell under suspicion.
            
            
            In spite of the World War, people had to go on living, and I shall attempt to
                    tell the story of my life as the stirring years from 1914 to 1920 passed into
                    history. At the opening of 1915, I was in the midst of my second year as head of
                    the department of American history and government in what is now the Indiana
                    State Teachers College. The institution was growing slowly but steadily and was,
                    in most departments, giving more attention to subject-matter and less to showing
                    students how to teach. The controlling thought for quite a few members of the
                    faculty had come to be that a teacher must first of all know
                    something—to give a specific illustration, that the first requisite
                    for a successful history teacher was to know some history. My classes were made
                    up of high school graduates and I found them able to do about the same quality
                    of work that was done by undergraduates in colleges and universities. I was in
                    love with my subject, I thoroughly enjoyed teaching, and I can say that my
                    remaining years in 
                        Terre Haute
                     were happy enough.
            In the fall of 1914, I bought a small picture show in Greentown, Indiana. A
                    brother-in-law, William C. Myers, who had recently come from 
                        Colorado
                     Springs to Indiana, took charge of the enterprize. We called it the
                    "Star Theater," but, sadly enough, its purchase did not turn
                    out to be a good business venture. In fact, outgo exceeded income every week,
                    and, at the end of about three months, we closed down. Mr. and Mrs. Myers6 then came to 
                        Terre Haute
                     to live for a few months, where the former was soon sought out by a
                    young man who was very anxious to trade some property for a picture show. The
                    deal was soon made, and I came into possession of a small house and lot in
                    Linton, Indiana, which was encumbered with a mortgage. It was rented to a good
                    tenant who paid $5.00 per month, while the building and loan payment
                    was $5.85 each month. This property, which I never saw, remained on
                    my hands but a short time.
            A physician who had come to 
                        Terre Haute
                     from a Hoosier city of the gas-belt, became dissatisfied with his
                    limited practice in the new locality after a few months, and a great desire to
                    get back to his old patients took possession of his spirit. He had bought a new
                    house in a good location on a contract, 
                  
                     6 Mrs. Myers, formerly Ida J. Lynch, one of my
                            sisters, now lives in Ashland, 
                                Kentucky
                            . Her husband died in February, 1933.
               
                     by paying a modest sum in cash and agreeing
                    to assume upkeep and make monthly payments. This doctor and my brother-in-law
                    fell in with each other and talked trade occasionally for a few weeks. The
                    outcome was that the doctor and I exchanged equities even. He took over the
                    Linton property with encumbrance, and I took over his contract.7 I have not seen Dr. K. since, but as I never heard from him, I suppose
                    he was satisfied. My family and I felt quite proud of the house at 1230 South
                    Fifth Street where we resided from the spring of 1915 to the summer of 1918. It
                    was the first home in which we had lived that we could enjoy with a sort of
                    feeling of ownership.
            While in 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Mr. Myers carried through another real estate deal which was to
                    affect me later. Before coming to Indiana, he had homesteaded a quarter section
                    of land near 
                        Colorado
                     Springs, 
                        Colorado
                    . This ranch, as he called it, was now traded for a farm of the same
                    size in 
                        Parke County
                    , Indiana, about four miles northeast of 
                        Turkey
                     Run. The farm was weighted down with a $3000 mortgage
                    and half of it was too rough for cultivation, but it wasn't a mile
                    above sea-level, it was equipped with some pretty fair old buildings, and it
                    looked as if it could be redeemed. After a few months, I acquired this farm,
                    assuming the mortgage, and turning over to Mr. Myers a house and three lots, in
                    the village of Bringhurst, which I had purchased a few years before. Ernest L.
                    Welborn, then in the office of Superintendent of Public Instruction in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and now Professor of Psychology in the Indiana State Teachers
                    College, became an equal partner with me in this venture.8 A
                    year or two later, I purchased his interest, paying him all that he had put into
                    the farm and enough in addition to give him a fair return on his investment.
            This picturesque and interesting piece of Park County real estate remained with
                    me until the end of 1919, when I exchanged my equity together with my livestock
                    and farming implements for a cottage and two lots in 
                        Terre Haute
                    .9 The 
                  
                     7 At the time of the exchange, the equities were
                            valued at about $500 each. The Linton property was worth
                            about $800 and the 
                                Terre Haute
                             property about $4800.
                  
                     8 We took over the 160 acre farm at a valuation of
                            $8900, reduced the mortgage from $3000 to
                            $2500, and paid up interest and taxes. Welborn was really a
                            silent-partner. This deal was made in October, 1915.
                  
                     9 The farm, livestock and implements were valued
                            at $6500. The farm mortgage was $2500 and the
                            cottage and lots in 
                                Terre Haute
                             were valued at $4000. In the summer of 1987, I
                            had repaired the house and barn on the farm and considerable fencing was
                            done during 1918 and 1919.
               
                     cottage, I sold at a fair price in a
                    reasonable time, but the extra lot I owned for some years. It brought me no
                    income, while there was an outgo of forty dollars a year in taxes. Eventually, I
                    traded it for a small house and lot that was a good investment until the
                    depression came. Then it soon lost half of its value, and I was glad to turn it
                    in on an eighty acre farm in 
                        Clinton
                     County, Indiana, which I obtained in 1935. The Bible says that
                    "the way of the transgressor is hard," but whether I
                    transgressed or not, I know that my farming venture of 1915 started me down a
                    pretty rough road.
            I did not attempt to do much with the quarter section in 
                        Parke County
                     during 1916, but from March, 1918, to the end of 1919, I made an
                    attempt to accomplish something. During that period, I placed a fine, honest
                    man, who had once been a farmer, on the place and guaranteed him enough so that
                    he could afford to undertake the job of operating it for me.10 War-time prices were very high. We sold butter-fat at about fifty cents
                    a pound, wheat at $2.08 per bushel and hogs at more than
                    $15 per hundred weight.11 Everything that we
                    needed was purchased at a high figure and since we started during war-time, we
                    reaped no advantage. I bought some corn to feed on the farm for which I paid
                    $1.50 a bushel.
            Land prices boomed and Indiana farms with which I was well acquainted, and which
                    sold for less than $100 an acre in 1900, commanded from
                    $200 to $300 per acre in 1918. Farmers who owned good
                    farms before the war and who bought little equipment during the years of highly
                    inflated prices, reaped the advantages of the boom period. Others saw their
                    supposed gains melt rapidly away in the years of deflation that followed the
                    World War. For a vast number of farmers, there was little prosperity between
                    1919 and 1929.
            In the spring of 1916, a committee of the Normal School faculty was appointed to
                    prepare a program for December 11, the centennial anniversary of the admission
                    of Indiana into the Union. The committee was made up of Miss Rose Cox, Prof.
                    Frank S. Bogardus and myself. The headship of the committee was wished on me,
                    but the other members supported 
                  
                     10 The man who took charge of the farm on March 1,
                            1918, was John A. Lucas. He still lives on the place, to which he has
                            added about sixty adjacent acres of better land lying between the
                            original farm and the main highway. The father of Mr. Lucas was a first
                            cousin of the writer of this reminiscence.
                  
                     11 We did not sell any hogs when the price was at
                            the highest level, but did sell some at $16.20 per hundred
                            pounds and some at $18.00 per hundred.
               
                     me loyally. During the summer, I wrote a
                    play composed of scenes representing Indiana in the pioneer period. In the fall
                    quarter, I selected the leading characters from the student body and the faculty
                    and drilled them from time to time for several weeks. In all, one hundred fifty
                    persons participated in this centennial drama. The play was presented three
                    times, on Friday night, December eighth, on the following night, and on Monday
                    night, December eleventh.
            The acts of the play included a pioneer home scene of 1816, rail-splitting scene,
                    a school scene, a corn-husking party and barn dance, a meeting of squatters, a
                    political meeting of 1840, a recruiting scene of 1861, and a home-coming at the
                    end of the war. Between acts, there were tableaux, which included: a conference
                    between Governor Harrison and Tecumseh; the boy, Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                     reading by the light of the blazing wood in the fire-place; an
                    Indian girl; General Grant in the commander's tent; and Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                     as President. At the corn-husking party and dance, there was a real
                    shock of corn to be husked; in the forest scene, a real log was split up with
                    mauls and wedges, and clap-boards were riven on the stage with a frow; at the
                    political gathering of 1840, there was an abundance of cider; in the recruiting
                    scene, a company marched away carrying old army muskets and wearing the uniform
                    of Union soldiers. The pioneer and his children introduced in the first act were
                    carried through the drama to the end giving a sort of unity to the whole, and a
                    supreme effort was made to have everything in keeping with the spirit and
                    customs of the period with nothing exaggerated. The staging of this indoor
                    historical drama was to me one of the superlative experiences of my life, though
                    I do not know how those who played parts in it or who saw any one of the
                    performances would think of it at this distance.
            It was on August 1, 1916, that I purchased a Model T Ford car. This
                    "machine," I had equipped with a speedometer, shock-absorbers,
                    and an extra hood that completely covered the brass band that adorned the front
                    of Ford radiators of early vintage. The car with appurtenances cost me
                    $455. I had insured my life in the Union Central Company of 
                        Cincinnati
                     in 1892 for $1000. This endowment policy was to mature
                    in March, 1917, and, anticipating the receipt of this sum, I spent nearly half
                    of it in advance for a Ford. When I acquired my next car in the spring of 1923,
                    our old "tin  Lizzie" was
                    disposed of for $85. When the new owner drove it away, it was still
                    "hitting on all four." How long it continued to give service,
                    I am unable to report as I never saw or heard of it again.
            When the 
                        United States
                     entered the World War, I was past forty-five. I did not go away
                    from home to perform any kind of war work. I was a member of a local company
                    called the Liberty Guard which was formed early in 1918, and I drilled with this
                    unit weekly until I left 
                        Terre Haute
                     in June of that year. I made a number of four-minute speeches, I
                    tried to do my part in every drive, I performed my regular duties as a teacher
                    as well as I could, and I kept my head in the midst of war hysteria. I stood
                    steadfastly by a noble and scholarly colleague who was not re-employed at the
                    end of the year in June, 1918. In those tense days, this was not an easy course
                    to follow, but I have not a single regret and I would act just as I did, if I
                    were obliged to live through that year again.
            It was early in 1918, that the Ball Brothers of 
                        Muncie
                    , having come into possession of the plant and grounds of a private
                    school located in 
                        Muncie
                    , offered the property to the Board of Trustees of the State Normal
                    School. The buildings and real estate were to become the property of the state
                    of Indiana if accepted and used for a Normal School operated by state funds. The
                    offer was accepted. The new institution, first known as the 
                        Muncie
                     Branch of the Indiana State Normal School, was opened on June 18,
                    1918, with a faculty of twenty. The school, under the management of the same
                    Board as the institution at 
                        Terre Haute
                    , was also under the same President, William W. Parsons. The
                    resident head was Benjamin F. Moore, who left the superintendency of the 
                        Muncie
                     public schools to become Executive Dean. Several faculty members
                    were transferred from 
                        Terre Haute
                     to 
                        Muncie
                     to be made heads of departments. The new history department was
                    assigned to me. I was not satisfied with the appelation "
                        Muncie
                     Branch" so I suggested to President Parsons that a better
                    and more dignified term would be "Eastern Division." This was
                    several weeks before the opening of the first session. I was advised to write to
                    Dean Moore, which I did. I found, however, that he was satisfied with the name
                    already adopted. After the school was in operation a few months, the
                    announcement came from the President that the Board  had officially changed the name to the Eastern
                    Division of the Indiaan State Normal and so it remained until it became the Ball
                    State Teachers College in 1923.
            The conditions prevailing in 1918 were not favorable to the opening of a state
                    school. The number of students attending during the first summer session was
                    satisfactory. It was in the fall quarter of 1918 that the skating had to be done
                    on such thin ice. With a few regular students for each class and an S. A. T. C.
                    unit, we managed to get by. The end of the War and the disappearance of the
                    military group, caused the enrollment of the winter quarter to be slender, but
                    there was a slight pick-up in the number of actual students. Quite a few more
                    students came in for the spring quarter, especially after the close of the
                    smaller high schools. The danger line was successfully passed by May, 1919, and
                    since then the institution has had a remarkable growth.12
            
            During the winter quarter of that first year of the Eastern Division of the State
                    Normal School, there came about a rather serious faculty quarrel. Fortunately,
                    it was kept quite closely within the faculty. A few of the really important
                    members of the teaching force who were quite intimate with Dean Moore during the
                    summer and early fall of 1918, became more and more critical of his policies and
                    methods as the months passed. Certain other members of the staff at once became
                    champions of the Dean, and by the opening of the winter quarter in January,
                    1919, the war was on. I soon learned that a faculty quarrel, like a wrangle
                    between two factions of a church congregation, can become quite a fight. I
                    don't yet know just what there was to split the worthy and ambitious
                    teachers of the young and struggling Normal School at 
                        Muncie
                    , but a cleavage there surely was. It is something to smile about
                    now, but at the time it gave me much concern.
            By the time the trouble reached an alarming stage, I was convinced that the new
                    institution was destined to have a future and I was anxious that the prospects
                    should not be 
                  
                     12 One of the finest things about working with an
                            earnest faculty group in a new institution, when the outcome was as yet
                            uncertain, was that all of us learned to know each other well. Were I to
                            mention each member of that small group whom I should like to name, it
                            would be necessary to present the faculty list of the summer of 1918 and
                            the two years following. Several of them are still serving the school.
                            During the nine quarters that I taught history in the institution at 
                                Muncie
                            , I was more closely associated with Prof. Otto B. Christy
                            than with any other member of the faculty. I should perhaps mention that
                            we played a few games of checkers in the summer of 1918, and that,
                            having found the game interesting, we occasionally staged other contests
                            as long as I remained on the faculty with him.
               
                     dimmed by a rift in the faculty. There were
                    those in both camps whose friendship I valued. Two or three members of each
                    group sought me out to voice their grievances and to ask my advice. At first, I
                    hoped to calm the troubled waters, but failed. Then I suggested that those on
                    the war-path make up a list of their grievances and remain as quiet as possible
                    to the end of the year, when the Board of Trustees could be asked to consider
                    the pleas of all and make such adjustments as the conditions might demand. The
                    furor increased, however, and Dean Moore became thoroughly discouraged. After a
                    time, he came to me for a conference, and I advised him to ask the Board for an
                    investigation. I pointed out that no other dignified course was open to him, and
                    that, whatever the outcome, it would surely improve the situation. He followed
                    my advice, and the Board selected a committee. Evidence was quietly gathered
                    from representatives of both sides and the middle, and a fair solution was
                    worked out.13 At any rate, conflict ceased and the members
                    of the teaching staff again devoted their talents to the work of the school. The
                    second year was one of considerable progress, and, by 1920, when Thomas J.
                        Breitwieser14 was made Dean of the school, the new
                    institution was on its feet with an assured place in the educational system of
                    the state.15
            
            It was in the spring of 1920, that I was asked to serve as acting-professor of
                    history at Indiana University for the year 1920–1921. I obtained a
                    leave of absence and began my year's work in September. I had no
                    assurance that I should remain at the University at the time, but, after more
                    than eighteen years, I am still here, and hope to merit retention until the
                    hands of the clock point to the hour when my tenure is to end under our
                    retirement system.
            In 1916, I was a supporter of Woodrow Wilson as a candidate to succeed himself in
                    the presidency. I was impressed by his leadership, and convinced that the
                    legislation of his 
                  
                     13 There were no dismissals. Mr. Moore was
                            relieved of executive duties, but remained on the faculty as professor
                            of methods with, as I understood it then, no reduction in salary. He
                            continued as Dean of the school during the summer quarter of 1919.
                            During the fall quarter, several different members of the faculty were
                            successively placed in charge of the institution, each for two or three
                            weeks.
                  
                     14 Dr. Breitwieser has been on the faculty of the
                            teachers college at East Stroudsburg, 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , since he left Indiana in 1925. He was an assistant
                            professor of psychology at 
                                Terre Haute
                             when he was transferred to 
                                Muncie
                             in January, 1920, where he was at once made Dean. An
                            honest, tactful, sensible man, he served the institution well for
                            several years.
                  
                     15 It was indeed worth something to help in the
                            founding of a new state educational institution. I should have been
                            sorry, however, had it been necessary to spend the best years of my life
                            as a teacher of history in the school with a meagre library, since it
                            would necessarily have taken a considerable period to build it
                        up.
               
                     first term was constructive. I voted for
                    him, but not because of the slogan, "He kept us out of war."
                    The claim has frequently been made that he was elected on the basis of this cry
                    and the belief that he would continue to oppose our entrance into the war, but I
                    do not believe this to be a true explanation of his election for a second term.
                    While the slogan, which has been so often mentioned, was used, there was no
                    issue between the President and Charles Evans Hughes in regard to the World War.
                    The reëlection of Wilson was really due to the fact that many
                    Progressives living west of the 
                        Mississippi
                     who left the Republican Party in 1912 did not return to the fold.
                    Preferring Wilson to Hughes, enough of them voted for the former to give him 
                        Kansas
                     and 
                        California
                     which meant victory. The combined electoral vote of these two
                    states was twenty-three, exactly the difference between the totals given to the
                    two candidates. Wilson could have won by a margin of three without 
                        Kansas
                    , but, had 
                        California
                     gone to Hughes, the present Chief Justice would have gained the
                    presidency, shading his opponent by three electoral votes.
            On the night of the election, I stayed down town to watch the election returns
                    until eleven-thirty. It looked like a Hughes victory, but I went home feeling
                    uncertain. The morning paper announced a Republican triumph, which had been
                    conceded by eastern Democratic newspapers during the night. Looking over such
                    returns as were furnished from different states, I said to Mrs. Lynch as I left
                    the house— "The election is still in doubt." As I
                    crossed 
                        Wabash
                     Avenue, I purchased an "extra." The headline was
                    different from that in the regular morning edition, the latest returns
                    indicating that the West might decide the contest. In the end this proved to be
                    correct, voters in 
                        California
                     determining the victor.
            Because the 
                        United States
                     soon entered the World War, it is not possible to say whether the
                    outcome in 1916 was a triumph for progressivism or not. We do know that during
                    the War, liberals tended to become conservatives and conservatives
                    reactionaries, and it cannot be denied that the general effect of the events of
                    1917–1918 was to check the progressive trend of American politics and
                    turn the current decidedly in the opposite direction. The effects of war can
                    seldom be forseen. Even to the victors may come unexpected results of far more
                    significance than the objectives sought.
            
            I understand full well that while writing about my experiences from early boyhood
                    to fifty, I have omitted much that could have been said. By giving more
                    attention to the raveled edges, I could easily have doubled the length of the
                    autobiography. Perhaps I may sometime rewrite the story and add some short
                    chapters covering the period since 1920, for, of course, the waters have
                    continued to flow under the bridge. I confess that I do feel an urge to write
                    some articles on special matters that I have touched but lightly.
         
         
         
            
               Contributors to this issue: Dr. William M. Balch is professor
                    of history in Baker College, Baldwin, 
                        Kansas
                    . Dr. R. W. Terhune lives at 
                        Martinsville
                    , Indiana, where he practices medicine. Frank E. Ross is connected
                    with the Historical Records Survey, 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Mrs. Lucille Detraz Skelcher and her daughter, Jane Lucille
                    Skelcher, reside in 
                        Vevay
                    , Indiana. Dr. Leonard C. Helderman is a professor of history in 
                        Washington
                     and Lee University, 
                  Lexington, vau
               . Dr. John D. Barnhart is a professor of history in 
                        Louisiana
                     State University, University, 
                        Louisiana
                    .
         
         
         
            Wanted
            We hope that some of our readers can aid us to obtain the desired publications
                    listed below. The Library of Indiana University and other libraries in different
                    parts of the country are in need of copies of the issues mentioned in order to
                    complete files. For older and rarer numbers, prices above the regular rates will
                    be paid. Persons possessing any of the desired publications may write to the Indiana Magazine of History.
            
            
               Indiana Magazine of History. We have a serious need of more
                    copies of the following numbers, especially those marked with asterisks:
            
               
                  *Volume I, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept.,
                        Dec., 1905).
               Volume II, 2, 4 (June, Dec., 1906).
               
                  * Volume III, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June,
                        Sept., Dec., 1907).
               Volume VII, 4 (Dec., 1911).
               
                  *Volume VIII, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June,
                        Sept., Dec., 1912).
               
                  *Volume IX, 1, (March, 1913).
               
                  *Volume X, 1 (March, 1914).
               
                  *Volume XVII, 3, 4 (Sept., Dec., 1921).
               Volume XVIII, 1, 4 (March, Dec., 1922).
               Volume XXII, 1 (March, 1926).
            
            Full sets of the Magazine can rarely be supplied to libraries
                    or individuals who may desire to purchase. A complete file from 1920 forward can
                    be supplied at fifty cents a copy, or two dollars per volume, unbound; from 1914
                    to 1919, the price is one dollar per copy, or four dollars per volume. Issues
                    from 1905–1913, when they can be supplied at all, will be sold at one
                    dollar and a half per number.
            The Indiana University Library needs the following publications to complete its
                    files. Anyone having any of these publications will confer a great favor by
                    writing to W.A. Alexander, Librarian of Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
            
                    The Indiana Alumnus
                
            
               Volume VI, 14 (Dec. 25, 1926). Wanted 3 copies.
               Volume VI, 16 (Jan. 16, 1927). Wanted 2 copies.
            
            
            
               The Indiana University Catalogue. The University needs the
                    following to fill out the files.
            
               1832–1833. Wanted 3 copies.
               1833–1834. Wanted 3 copies.
               1834–1835. Wanted 3 copies.
               1836–1837. Wanted 2 copies.
               1837–1838. Wanted 2 copies.
               1839–1840. Wanted 2 copies.
               1840–1841. Wanted 2 copies.
               1843–1844. Wanted 2 copies.
               1849–1850. Wanted 2 copies.
               1853–1854. Wanted 2 copies.
            
            
               The Indiana School Journal. Wanted: Volume XXXVII (1892) and
                    Volume XXXVIII (1893).
            
               Indiana Law Journal. Wanted: Vol. I, No. 1; Vol. II, Nos. 2, 3,
                    4, 5, 6; Vol. III, Nos. 1, 5, 6. The desired copies were published at 
                        Indianapolis
                     during 1898–1899.
            In 1930, The Indiana Magazine of History published a General Index for the first twenty-five volumes
                    (1905–1929). The Index was compiled by Dorothy Riker of the Indiana
                    Historical Bureau. Every library and every individual possessing a file of the
                        Magazine for the period covered by the General Index, or for any considerable portion of the period, should
                    have a copy. It is still possible to obtain copies at $1.00 each.
                    Send orders to the Indiana Magazine of History,
                    
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
            Reprints of any paper published in the Indiana Magazine of
                    History may be obtained by any contributor. Estimates of the cost will be
                    furnished on request and an order placed for as many reprints of any articles as
                    may be desired by the author. Requests should be made to the Editor before the issue containing the article of which reprints are
                    desired is published.
         
         
         
         
         
            The Anthony Halberstadt Family
            LORING C. HALBERSTADT
            
            Anthony Halberstadt was born in Hessen-Kassell, 
                        Germany
                    , about two hundred years ago, and came to America during the
                    Revolutionary War, as a Hessian soldier fighting for 
                        England
                    . He was captured at Trenton, when 
                        Washington
                     crossed the 
                        Delaware
                     and surprised the British early in the morning of Dec. 26, 1776.
                    After the war, he settled in Berks County, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , where he married and reared a family of four children.1 About 1800, he and his family came to 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , took a flatboat down the 
                        Ohio
                     to Fort 
                        Washington
                     (near 
                        Cincinnati
                    ), and then moved by ox-team to Cedar Grove, near 
                        Brookville
                    , in 
                        Franklin
                     County, Indiana. There, the family cleared some land and built a
                    home.
            According to land records, Anthony Halberstadt entered land on January 20, 1806,
                    in 
                        Franklin
                     County, Indiana. This consisted of 160 acres (N. E. Quar., Sec. 10,
                    Tp. 8, R. 2W.) The Mounds Hotel, three miles south of 
                        Brookville
                    , Indiana, is located just across the Whitewater River from this
                    location. In 1813, Anthony Halberstadt sold 90 acres for $600 to John
                    Case. In June, 1813, he sold 50 acres to John Laforge for $140. On
                    March 6, 1816, he sold to Zachariah Cooksey, a Revolutionary soldier, buried
                    near the farm, the last 20 acres for $80.2
                    Further records concerning this early family have not been found. It is believed
                    the family moved to a location near 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     after 1816. Mary Halberstadt was married to Robert Buchanan in the
                    old 
                        Franklin
                     County neighborhood in January, 1817, a fact which strengthens the
                    probability that the family did not make a long migration in 1816.
            
               Children of Anthony and—–Halberstadt:3
            
            Thomas Halberstadt was born on June 7, 1789, and lived till November 17, 1857. He
                    married Leahneah Kentley (b. Nov. 15, 1794; d. Dec. 21, 1869) on November 17,
                    1814. Lewis Deweese, a Baptist minister living near Cedar Grove performed the
                    ceremony. Fifteen children were born to this union.4.
            
               
                  1
                        Atlas of 
                                Franklin
                             County, Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1882), 12, 99; Charles M. Thompson, Sons of the
                            Wilderness: John and William Conner (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1987), 50.
               
                  2 Land records of 
                            Franklin
                         County, Indiana (
                            Brookville
                        ).
               
                  3 Bible records of the family is in the old
                        Halberstadt family Bible, which is now in the possession of Loring C.
                        Halberstadt of 
                            Terre Haute
                        , Indiana.
               
                  4 For data relative to early Halberstadt marriages,
                        see Marriage Records, 
                            Franklin
                         County (
                            Brookville
                        ), Indiana.
            
            
            Esther Halberstadt was born on July 4, 1794, and died on May 27, 1875,5 at Florence, 
                        Kentucky
                    . She was married to Wesley Herndon (b. Jan. 2, 1794, at 
                        Madison
                     Court House, Va.; d. Oct. 9, 1854) in 
                        Franklin
                     County, Indiana, on May 26, 1813, by Lewis Deweese. Ten children
                    were born to this union.
            Mary Halbertsadt was married to Robert Buchan in 
                        Franklin
                     County on January 9, 1817, by Lewis Deweese. No record of
                    Mary's birth or death has been found.6
            
            John Halberstadt was married to Mary Guilbert on February 13, 1816, by William
                    Tyner, a Baptist minister.7 Five children were born to this
                    union. John Halberstadt entered land in 
                        Franklin
                     County in 1817. In 1838, he petitioned the court for a clear title
                    to some land, acquired from the McCleary heirs.
            
                    Children of Thomas and Leahneah (Kently) Halberstadt:
                
            Hester—b. Sept. 15, 1815; d. May 11, 1855; m. Dec. 23, 1852, to John
                    Duncan.
            Lipporah—b. Aug. 24, 1817; d. June 6, 1907; m. April 7, 1839, to Henry
                    Peterson; descendants live in 
                        Illinois
                    .
            Mary Ann—b. Jan. 20, 1820; m. 1839, to Elisha Davis.
                    Anthony—b. Feb. 14, 1822; d. Jan. 31, 1865; m. Feb. 19, 1846, to
                    Hannah H. Hays, by J. Rosecrans; license issued at 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , Indiana, Feb. 17, 1846; descendants live in the vicinity of 
                        Brookville
                    .
            Mariah—b. June 9, 1823; d. May 23, 1854.
            Thomas—b. Jan. 19, 1825; d. Dec. 17, 1869; m. Aug. 19, 1847, to Mary
                    Ann Jones by Jesse Wilson; license issued July 17, 1847, at 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , Indiana; descendants live in the vicinity of 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Indiana.
            Robert—b. June 15, 1828; m. Sept. 4, 1851, to Joanna Guilder;
                    descendants live in the vicinity of 
                        Brookville
                    , Indiana.
            David Oliver—b. Oct. 5, 1829; d. Oct. 17, 1858, in 
                        Jackson
                     Tp., Sullivan Co., Ind.; buried in Ebenezer cemetery, near 
                        Shelburn
                    , Indiana.
            
               
                  5
                        
                     
                                Boone
                             County Journal (Ky.), May 27, 1875.
               
                  6 Anyone having any information concerning Mary
                        (Halberstadt) Buchanan or her descendants, is asked to write to the author
                        (Loring C. Halberstadt, 
                            Terre Haute
                        , Indiana), as he desires to compile a complete history of the
                        Halberstadt family.
               
                  7 Rev. William Tyner's wife is buried near an
                        old church, located on a high hill, three miles from 
                            Brookville
                        . This brick church is one of the oldest in the state. The
                        author does not know of an older church still standing in Indiana.
            
            
            Sarah—b. June 15, 1831; m. Dec. 25, 1853, to John B. Godwin; children:
                    William, Lena, Lib (Elizabeth), Lucy, Ida; this branch of the family lives in 
                        Kansas
                    .
            Samuel—b. Oct. 23, 1832; d. July 16, 1858, in 
                        Jackson
                     Tp., Sullivan Co., Ind.; buried in Ebenezer Cemetery.
            Hannah—b. April 16, 1834; m. Nov. 17, 1857, to David Bronson;
                    descendants live near 
                        Bridgeton
                    , Indiana.
            Theodore—b. Aug. 30, 1835; d. Oct. 7, 1909; m. Aug. 13, 1862, to Nancy
                    Thayer; buried at Farmersburg, 
                        Sullivan County
                    , Ind.
            Elvira—b. Feb. 16, 1837; m. Nov. 11, 1855, to Francis Godwin;
                    children: Ruth, Melvin, Ossa, Stella; this branch of the family lives in 
                        Arkansas
                    .
            William Henry—b. Dec. 22, 1839; killed in the Civil War on March 25,
                    1863.
            Unnamed infant, twin of Theodore—b. Aug. 30, 1835; d. at age of one
                    month.
            
                    Children of Esther (Halberstadt) and Wesley Herndon:
                    8
                
            Anthony—b. Feb. 14, 1814; d. June 13, 1814.
            William—b. June 15, 1816, at Cedar Grove, 
                        Franklin
                     Co., Ind.; d. March 17, 1895; m. Feb. 13, 1839, to Lucy Jane Pitts
                    (d. Dec. 28, 1896) at 
                        Charlottesville
                    , Va.; children: Mary (m. 
                        Mason
                     Fletcher), J. Pitts (m. Rose—–and had one
                    child, Rose); Robert (d. 1888), Jennie (m.—–Moxley); Lucy
                    (b. 1857; d. 1882, m.—– Collier), Martha, b. 1863 (m.
                    —– Connelly; had two children, Margie and Robert), Willie.
            Elizabeth—b. July 20, 1818; m. Feb. 14 1835, to Jesse Kirkpatrick;
                    children: John, Joseph, Benjamin, Archie, Thomas, Augusta, Frank, Esther (m.
                    William Piper).
            
               Amanda—b. Sept. 13, 1821; d. Nov. 11, 1887.
               Mary—b. Dec. 1823; d. Aug. 1, 1829.
               Sara Ann—b. Feb. 20, 1827; d. July 25, 1829.
               Jane—b. May 18, 1829; m. June 15, 1857, to John Roland.
               Mellison—b. Dec. 29, 1831; m. 1856, to Louis Conner Yager (b.
                        Sept. 25, 1830; d. Oct. 5, 1885).
            
            Elijah Kirtley—b. March 16, 1835; d. Nov. 21, 1910; m. June 14, 1859,
                    to Margaretta Haydon (b. Feb. 5, 1841; d. Jan. 11, 1918).
            Archeable—b. April 25, 1837; d. Sept. 29, 1837.
            
               
                  8 Records for the family of Wesley and Esther
                        (Halberstadt) Herndon were contributed by Louis C. Yager, Jr., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Ind.
            
            
            
                    Children of Mellison (Herndon) and Louis Conner Yager:
                
            Ernest—b. March 6, 1857; d. Jan. 16, 1931; m. Ella Barton.
            Gertrude—b. Oct. 1, 1858; m. John Aylor; children: Ira, Jenny, Willa.
            Ola—b. Jan. 27, 1863; d. Jan. 4, 1927; m. Perry Carpenter; children:
                    Clarence, Edith, Edwin.
            Anne—b. Aug. 17, 1874; d. April, 1900.
            Mary—b. March 13, 1867, d. July 23, 1869.
            Grace—b. Aug. 8, 1876; m. T. B. Castleman; children: 
                        Clay
                     and Osceola.
            Louis C.—b. Aug. 4, 1860; m. Oct. 29, 1885, to Margaretta Herndon.
                    Children: infant (b. Nov. 8, 1886; d. Nov. 24, 1886), Elsie (b. Jan. 25, 1888;
                    m. Albert Riggs; 3 children), 
                        Virginia
                     (b. Jan. 30, 1895, m. Frank Landers; one child, Mary Louise),
                    Eloise (b. Jan. 3, 1902; m. Walter Forman; children, Phyllis and Eleanor), Grace
                    (b. No. 8, 1909).9
            
            
                    Children of Elijah Kirtley and Margaret (Haydon) Herndon:
                    10
                
            Ida—b. July 14, 1860; m. John Hall; children: Kirtley and Kathrine.
            Ollie—b. Jan. 22, 1863; d. Oct. 30, 1935; m. Charles Y. Gray; one
                    child, Nellie.
            Laura—d. in infancy.
            Margaretta—b. June 17, 1866; d. July 5, 1938; m. Louis C. Yager,
                        Jr.11
            
            Eeila Corinne—b. Dec. 17, 1868; m. J. W. Leathers; children: John,
                    Corinne, Herndon.
            Emma Buford—b. Oct. 1, 1874; m. Joseph Drexilius.
            
               
                  9 These are grandchildren of Wesley and Either
                        (Halberstadt) Herndon and great-grandchildren of Anthony Halberstadt.
               
                  10 See preceeding note.
               
                  11 Louis C. Yager, Jr., was the son of Louis Conner
                        and Mellisson (Herndon) Yager. The mother of Louis C. Yager, Jr., was a
                        sister of Elizabeth Kirtley Herndon, whose daughter was Margaretta Herndon.
                        Louis C. Yager, Jr., therefore, married his first cousin.
            
         
         
         
            The John Vancleave Family
            EDWARD S. HARVEY
            
            John Vancleave, son of Aaron Vancleave and Rachel Schencks, was born in Monmouth
                    County, 
                        New Jersey
                    , in 1739, and died in 
                        Jefferson County
                    , Indiana, in May, 1812. John went from 
                        New Jersey
                     to Rowan County, 
                        North Carolina
                    , with his parents in 1751. From there he migrated to 
                        Kentucky
                     with the colonists led by Richard 
                        Henderson
                     in 1775, and came on to Indiana in 1811. His first marriage was to
                    Mary Shepherd, but the time and place are unknown. At an unknown time, he
                    married his second wife, Rachel Ryker (nee Demaree, widow of
                    Gerardus Ryker), in 
                        Kentucky
                    . Ryker was killed in the battle of Floyd's Defeat on
                    September 15, 1781.
            John Vancleave was at Fort Boonesboro during the Indian siege of that station,
                    and he and his family were at Bryant's Station at the time it was
                    attacked by more than five hundred Indians under Simon Girty and some British
                    officers on August 16–19, 1782. It was during this attack that John
                    Vancleave, Jr., who was then about fifteen years old, distinguished himself by
                    shooting an Indian, who was standing on a high stump overlooking the Fort.
            About a year previous to the attack on Bryant's Station, John Vancleave
                    and his family were living at the station of his brother-in-law, Squire 
                        Boone
                    , Jr., who married Jane Vancleave (widow of—–
                    Cleft) in 1765 in 
                        North Carolina
                    . The inhabitants of the Squire 
                        Boone
                     Station, becoming alarmed about the Indians in the country, decided
                    to remove to Fort Boonesboro for greater safety. They started on September 14,
                    1781. Squire 
                        Boone
                     was suffering from a gunshot wound inflicted by an Indian bullet,
                    and he, with his son Isaiah and a few others, remained behind to look after some
                    stock. The party had proceeded about ten miles, and were in the neighborhood of
                    Long Run, when they were attacked by the Indians.
            Mary Vancleave, wife of John, was carrying one of her twin daughters (Nancy), and
                    her oldest daughter, Rachel, was carrying the other twin (Sally). When attacked
                    by the Indians, they were in the maze of a great forest. Mary was killed and
                    Nancy was carried away. The other girls were taken prisoners, but Rachel still
                    clung to Sally, who  began to cry and fret.
                    The Indians were almost ready to kill the child, when a party of horsemen from
                    Boonesboro made a dash to the Indians and rescued the prisoners. The rest of the
                    family, it seems, had fled for their lives pursued by the savages. Nancy, who
                    was carried away by the Indians, was never seen again and her fate was never
                    learned. This Indian attack has since been known as the "Battle of 
                        Boone
                    's Defeat," although Squire 
                        Boone
                     was not present at the time.
            Two of the Vancleave boys, Aaron and Benjamin, were slender and fleet of foot, so
                    they made their escape by following the horsemen. John Vancleave, Jr., a fleshy
                    boy, could not run as fast as the others and was left behind. He made his escape
                    by crawling into a hollow log and remaining there all night. The next morning he
                    heard the scouts who were looking for the dead and came out of the log. He was
                    rejoiced to find friends and went with them to the Fort.
            When the two boys who escaped by running came to the river, the horsemen would
                    not take them up with them, so they caught hold of the horses' tails
                    and swam across. In that way they made their escape from the savages. After they
                    had crossed the river, they hurried along as fast as they could, encumbered as
                    they were by wet buckskin garments. Their pantaloons were watersoaked and heavy.
                    Soon they began to drag under foot, and retard their progress. One of them
                    rolled his pants up, and they were all right when they got dry, but the other
                    boy cut his off at the bottom, as they gave down and began to drag under foot.
                    When dry, they were too short and had to be thrown away.1
            
            What was left of the family got together again at Boonesboro. Mary, the wife of
                    John Vancleave, Sr., was found and buried beneath the branches of the forest
                    trees, but the location of her grave is not known. John Vancleave, Sr., and his
                    three brothers, Benjamin, Ralph, and William (Billy) settled on Bullskin Creek,
                    a small stream in 
                        Shelby
                     County, 
                        Kentucky
                    , but their brother Aaron settled on Salt Creek, near Bearstown, and
                    later in 
                        Washington
                    , now 
                        Marion
                     County, 
                        Kentucky
                    .
            
                    Children of John and Mary (Shepherd) Vancleave:
                
            Rachel Vancleave—b. Oct. 25, 1762; d. April 26, 1842; m. 
                  
                     1 These stories relating to the family of John 
                                Van
                             Cleave are based on family traditions.
               
                     July 8, 1782, in 
                        Lincoln
                     Co., Ky., to Peter Banta (b. May 17, 1760; d. May 12, 1829).
            Leah Vancleave—m. Gerardus Ryker, son of Gerardus Ryker and Rachel
                    Demaree.
            John Vancleave—b. about 1767; m. Sept. 28, 1794, in 
                        Shelby
                     Co., Ky., to his cousin, Eunice Vancleave, daughter of Benjamin.
                    They came to Indiana, and their descendants are found in Indiana and some
                    western states.
            Aaron Vancleave—b. about 1769; d. Feb. 24, 1846; m. about 1791, to
                    Elizabeth, daughter of Ralph Griffin. They moved to 
                        Montgomery
                     County, Ind.
            Benjamin Vancleave—b. about 1771; m. Jan. 1, 1801, in 
                        Shelby
                     Co., Ky., to Sarah Kerns (daughter of Peter and Anna 
                        Jordan
                     Kerns who came from 
                        Ireland
                    ); settled in 1814, in 
                        Orange
                     County, Indiana, on land now owned and occupied by his
                    great-grandson, Harley Vancleave.
            Elizabeth Vancleave—m. March 4, 1794, in 
                        Shelby
                     Co., Ky., to Aaron Vancleave, son of Benjamin. They were cousins,
                    as shown in this record. Aaron and Elizabeth came to 
                        Montgomery
                     County, Indiana, and have many descendants.
            Nancy and Sally, twins—b. about 1781; further record of Sally has not
                    been found; nothing known about Nancy after her capture by the Indians.
            
                    Children of John and Rachel (Ryker, nee Demaree) Vancleave:
                
            Peter Vancleave—b.—–,
                    d.—–, 1829, in Jefferson Co., Ind.; m. (1) Mar. 20, 1808,
                    in 
                        Shelby
                     Co., Ky., to Ann Kennedy; m. (2) July 25, 1816, in Jefferson Co.,
                    Ind., to Elizabeth Woodfill.
            David Vancleave—m. Mar. 14, 1787; d. Nov. 18, 1825; m. Feb. 16, 1809,
                    to Rachel Sweringen. They settled in 1822 in 
                        Decatur
                     County, Ind. In 1836, they moved to 
                        Boone
                     County, Ind., where they spent the remainder of their lives; buried
                    in 
                        Hopewell
                     cemetery, 
                        Boone
                     County, Ind.2
            
            
               
                  2 For an article by the author on "The
                        Vancleave Family of 
                            Orange
                         County," see Indiana Magazine of
                        History (Sept., 1937), XXXIII, 366–367, and ibid. (Dec., 1937), XXXIII, 510–511, for an article,
                        "The Benjamin Vancleave Family."
            
         
         
         
            Queries and Answers
            Query 71: GRAY FAMILY
            
            Three men named Byrn purchased 
                        United States
                     land about 1810 in 
                        Harrison County
                    , Indiana: Thomas, Charles Leeson, and Temple Cole Byrn. According
                    to census records, Thomas Byrn died about 1821, but his widow was living in
                    1830. They had a son born before 1790, two sons born between 1790 and 1800, one
                    son born in 1815, and five daughters born before 1800. The only son about whom
                    anything is definitely known is Jesse Byrn, who was born in 1800 and married
                    Mahala —– (born in 1810). They had four daughters, and two
                    sons: Jesse, born 1846, and David born 1848. Wanted: name of the widow of Thomas
                    Byrn or Byrne, and names and dates of all the children.—J.M.B.
            Query 72: STEEN, BANKS and
                        MAYFIELD FAMILIES
            
            Sally Steen, born in 1788, married Reverend Leroy Mayfield on May 15, 1812, at 
                        Lancaster
                    , Garrard County, 
                        Kentucky
                    . Her father William Steen gave written consent to this marriage.
                    The Rev. Leroy Mayfield was the son of Isaac and Mary Banks Mayfield. From a
                    copy of a will recorded in 
                  Stanford, Lincoln
                County, 
                        Kentucky
                    , in 1799, Mary Banks is thought to be the daughter of Lynn Banks,
                    and his wife Sarah, and perhaps a sister of William Banks, a Revolutionary
                    soldier buried in 
                        Putnam
                     County, Indiana. Wanted: name of the mother of Sally Stern Mayfield
                    and definite information, with dates, relating to these families.
            —.U.S.
            Query 73: ALEXANDER MORRIS
                        FAMILY
            
            Alexander Morris was born on December 26, 1798, perhaps in 
                        Virginia
                    . He died on June 3, 1878, in 
                        Orange
                     County, Indiana. About the year 1828, he married Mary Mourman
                    Davis. Their daughter, Margaret Craven Morris, was born on July 6, 1831, and
                    died on September 11, 1903. She married Alfred Atkinson on December 1, 1853.
                    Alfred was born on November 24, 1828, and died on April 11, 1863. The mother of
                    Alexander Morris is known to have been an Alexander, born in
                            
                  Annapolis, mdu
               , but nothing more is
                    known of his parentage. Wanted: the Christian names of the parents of Alexander
                    Morris, with dates, and names of all their children.—Z.A.
            
            Query 74: GROENENDYKE FAMILY
            
            John Groenendyke enlisted in the Revolutionary War in 
                        New Jersey
                    . He was born in 1856 and died in 1824. He is buried in the family
                    graveyard near Eugene, 
                        Vermillion
                     County, Indiana. The grave has been marked by the D.A.R. He married
                    Lucrietia Rappleye. James Groenendyke was born in 
                        New Jersey
                     in 1770 and died in 
                        Fayette
                     County, Indiana, in 1837, having settled in Indiana between 1814
                    and 1819. His first wife was Barbara Buck, who was born April 6, 1795, and died
                    in 
                        Henry County
                    , Indiana. Many descendents of this family are living in 
                        Henry County
                    , Indiana, at this time. A genealogy of the family is being
                    compiled, but connections between the families above have not been proved
                    clearly. Data relative to the John Groenendyke family will be appreciatd.
            —W.I.U.
            Query 75: JOHN LEWIS FAMILY
            
            John Lewis first married Sarah Scearce by whom he had nine children: Keziah (b.
                    1755; d. 1834; m. Daniel Ketcham); Jemima (b. 1758; d. 1820; m. (1) William
                    Robey; m. (2) Phillip Moore); Nathan; Thomas; John d. young); Eleanor (m.
                    "Bud" Wooden); Sarah (m. John Moore; lived near 
                        Muncie
                    , Indiana); Levi (b. 1771; m. Sarah Carroll); Tabitha (b. 1775; m.
                    James Hoard). The second wife of John Lewis was Mary Ketcham, by whom he had
                    seven children: John, Daniel, Isaac, Deborah (m. John Griffith), Mary,
                    Priscilla, and Elizabeth. A letter written by a grandson, John Ketcham of 
                        Monroe
                     County, Indiana, on December 15, 1834, to another grandson, William
                    Robey, 
                  Galena, Illinois
               , gives many
                    interesting facts concerning this family. Wanted: the birth and death dates of
                    John Lewis, his burial place, and Revolutionary service; burial places of
                    daughters, Sarah Moore, Tabitha Hoard, and Deborah Griffith; names of wives and
                    husbands not given in this query; and Bible records of families
                    mentioned.—L.B.E.
            Query 76: WEIR FAMILY
            
            Robert Gardner Weir was born on December 28, 1814 or 1815, place not known, and
                    died on August 22, 1882, in 
                        Washington
                     County, Indiana. He married Mary Boyce, who was born on June 20,
                    1821, and died on February 2, 1857. Both are buried in 
                        Beech Grove
                     Cemetery, 
                        Franklin
                     Township, 
                        Washington
                     County, Indiana. Robert's father was David  T. Weir, who was born in 
                        South Carolina
                     in 1781, and died, according to tombstone record, on August 19,
                    1849, in 
                        Washington
                     County, Indiana. He married Jane Gardner, who died on May 3, 1843.
                    Both are buried in 
                        Beech Grove
                     Cemetery. David Weir had two brothers, John and George, and all
                    three married sisters named Gardner. It is thought the name of the father of
                    these brothers was James Weir, who came from 
                        Ireland
                     to 
                        North Carolina
                     or 
                        South Carolina
                    , and perhaps served in the Revolutionary War. Wanted: proof of
                    Revolutionary service on the part of James Weir, the name of his wife, dates,
                    and early ancestry.—J.R.W.
            Query 77: SHORT FAMILY
            
            Aaron Short was born in Botetourt County, 
                        Virginia
                    , on May 21, 1805. He was the second son in a family of seven sons
                    and two daughters. The sons were: Moses, Aaron, Jacob, George, Zachariah, James,
                    and Mathias. Zachariah Short of this family was my grandfather. Wanted. names of
                    the daughters of Aaron Short and their marriages. Also the parents of Aaron
                    Short, with dates, and ancestry.—R.H.S.
            Answer to Query 21 (March, 1937, p. 108, E.S.H.): The parentage to Peter
                    Vancleave of this Query has been proved. He was the son of John and his second
                    wife, Rachel Ryker (nee Demaree) Vancleave. Peter was first
                    married in 
                        Shelby
                     County, 
                        Kentucky
                    , on March 20, 1808, to Ann Kennedy, and his second marriage was in 
                        Jefferson County
                    , Indiana, July 25, 1816, to Elizabeth Woodfill. He died in 1829 in 
                        Jefferson County
                    , Indiana—E. S. Harvey, 
                        Lebanon
                    , Indiana.
            Answer to Query 55 (March, 1938, p. 136, E.C.G.): From the information you give
                    in your query in regard to the Williams family, you must be a descendant. We
                    have the Frank Willing Leach Manuscripts, in which he has traced the descendants
                    of the signers of the Declaration of Independence. If we do not have your line,
                    we would like to have it in our files, as we want them as complete as possible.
                    From the Leach Papers, we find our dates slightly different from yours. The
                    dates we have for the children of William Williams, the signer, are: Solomon, b.
                    Jan. 5, 1772; Faith, b. Sept. 29, 1775; William Trumbull, b. March 2, 1777.
                    William, the signer, died in August, 1811. He was the son of the Rev. Solomon
                    (son of Rev. William Williams), who was born at Hatfield, 
                    
                        Massachusetts
                    , June 4, —–, and died at
                            
                  Lebanon, Connecticut
               , in 1769. Mary
                    Porter was born at Hadley, 
                        Massachusetts
                    , on November 4, 1703. Rev. William Williams was born at
                            
                  Newton, Massachusetts
               , on February
                    2, 1665, and died at Hatfield, on August 29, 1741. He married (1) Elizabeth
                    Cotton, daughter of Rev. Seaborn and Dorothy (Brad-street) Cotton. Dorothy
                    Cotton was born at Hampton, 
                        New Hampshire
                    , on August 13, 1665, and died at Hatfield, 
                        Massachusetts
                    , on August 7, 1698. William Williams married (2), on August 9,
                    1699, Christian Stoddard, daughter of Rev. Solomon and Esther (Warham) Stoddard.
                    She was born in 
                  Northampton,
                            Massachusetts
               , on
                    April 23, 1764, and is evidently the mother of Solomon Williams. Rev. William
                    Williams was the son of Isaac, born at Roxbury, 
                        Massachusetts
                    , September 1, 1638, and died at 
                  Newton, Massachusetts
               , on February 11, 1707 or 1708. Isaac
                    Williams married (1) Martha Parke, daughter of Deacon William and Martha
                    (Holgrave) Parke. He married (2) Judith Cooper, who died in 1724 at the age of
                    seventy-six years. William was a son by the frist marriage of Isaac Williams.
                    Isaac was the son of Robert Williams, who was born in 
                        England
                    , and died in Roxbury, 
                        Massachusetts
                    , on September 1, 1693. Robert married in 
                        England
                     (1) Elizabeth Stratton, who died in Roxbury, 
                        Massachusetts
                    , in 1764, at the age of eighty years. He married (2) Mrs. Margaret
                    Fearing on November 3, 1675. Isaac was a son by the first marriage.
            I hope the above will be of some assistance. You will understand that this
                    material is taken from the Leach Manuscripts, the part he has put together from
                    correspondence and other sources, and I have not gone into the correspondence to
                    check his authorities.—Lutie J. Kinkead, Curator Filson Club, 
                        Louisville
                    , Ky.
         
         
         
            Bible Record of THE VALENTINE BORUFF FAMILY
               1
            
            Ann Boruff—b. Sept. 1, 1798.
            Samuel Boruff—b. March 25, 1800.
            Margaret Boruff—b. Dec. 27, 1802.
            Charity (Catsy) Boruff—b. Sept. 15, 1804.
            Christopher Boruff—b. last day of Feb., 1806.
            William Boruff—b. Feb. 12, 1808.
            Daniel Boruff—b. Jan. 10, 1810.
            Sarah Boruff—b. Aug. 4, 1812.
            Valentine (Felty) Boruff—b. Oct. 22, 1816.
            John Boruff—b. Oct. 4, 1818.
            On the inside of the front cover of the old Boruff Bible2 is
                    found in 
                        German
                     the statement:
            "Valentine Boruff died 50 years ago this fall, 1906, and was 82 years
                    old when he died. Grandpa Boruff."3
            
            
               
                  1 Record sent in by Oscar Boruff, Owensburg, Indiana.
               
                  2 The title-page of the old Bible of the Valentine
                        Boruff family carries the following: 
                            I.
                            Das Neue Testament
                            Unsers Herrn und Heilandes Jesu Christi,
                            Nach der Deutschen Uebersetzung
                            D. Martin Luther.
                            Zweite Auflage.
                            Germantaun
                            Gedruckt bey Michael Billmeyer
                            1795.
                            II.
                            Kirchen Gesang—Buck
                            D. Ambrosu Lobwasser
                            
                                
                                    Philadelphia
                                
                            
                            III.
                            Geistleches Blumen Gartlein
                            
                                
                                    Germantown
                                
                            
                            Debruckt und Zufinden bey
                            Michael Billmeyer
                            1800.
                        
               
               
                  3 This entry was made and signed by Andrew 
                            Jackson
                         Boruff (1857–1925). The statement that Valentine
                        Boruff died in 1856, aged eighty-two years, indicates that he was born in
                        1774. The Census of 1850, however, gives his age at that time as
                        seventy-three, which would make his birthdate 1777. The place of his birth
                        as given in the Census of 1850 was 
                            Pennsylvania
                        . He died in Mercer County, 
                            Illinois
                        . His wife's name was Margaret (Mallicote?) Boruff. The
                        date of her birth is unknown; she died in 1842. Valentine and Margaret
                        Boruff came from 
                            Campbell
                        , or Claton borne, County, 
                            Tennessee
                        , to 
                            Monroe
                         County, Indiana, in 1829 or 1880. The 1880 Census shows them
                        living in 
                            Monroe
                         County, Indiana. About 1884 they went to Mercer County, 
                            Illinois
                        , and in 1841 they purchased a farm from the 
                            United States
                         Government. The description of the land is given as follows:
                        East 1/2, S.W. 1/4, Sec. 9, Tp. 15 N, Range 5 W. This land passed from
                        Valentine I, to Valentine II, then to the present (1937) owners, Anna Monson
                        Boruff and her son Maynard.
            
         
         
         
            Early Wills of 
                        Orange
                     County, Indiana1, (Abstracts and Notes)
            
               By MRS. N. B. MAVITY
            
            
               Wood, Francis. Will executed September 11,
                    1827—probated October 6, 1827—to Sarah Ann Perrott,
                    daughter of Samuel Perrott, certain lands, etc.—should Sarah Ann not
                    live to have an heir, the property to be divided among Peter Ragle, John Ragle,
                    Margaret Ragle, Susan Ragle, and Samuel Perrott's three
                    children—property in Orleans mentioned—proved by two
                    subscribing witnesses: G. Berry and James Perrott.
            
               Freeman, Jane. Will—April 26,
                    1827—probated August 23, 1827—mentions daughters Fanny
                    Bradford and Rebecca McVey, granddaughter Sarilda Freeman, grandson Zeno
                    Blanchard Freeman, sons John, Daniel, and Joshua—to my granddaughter
                    Jane Doan, one picture, a dish, the chaise, and Richard Davidson's
                        Journal.2
            
            
               Glover, Stephen. Will—October 27,
                    1826—probated November 22, 1827—mentions wife Sally,
                    children Mariah, William, Robert, James, Huldah, Jane, Sarah, Nathan.3
            
            
               Lindley, Jonathan. Will—September 22,
                    1824—probated April 22, 1828—mentions wife Martha,
                    daughter Gulielma and other children: Jonathan, Catherine McVey, Thomas,
                    William, Sarah Hadley, Deborah Jones, Hannah Braxton, Mary Dixon, Queen Esther
                    Lindley, Elenor Chambers, Rebecca Henley, Zacharias, Jonathan Dix, and sister,
                    Deborah Newlin—books to be divided among the
                    children—"My big Bible is bequeathed to Martha, then to go
                    to Gulielma."4 (The will is very lengthy and
                    disposes of large amounts of property. The pages in the will record are quite
                    soiled; probably no will in the book has been more widely read and copied.)
            
               Lindley, Thomas.
               6 Will—May 3,
                    1828—probated May 22, 1828—mentions wife, Army, and
                    children: William, Samuel, John, Mary, Thomas 
                        Elwood
                    .
            
               Elrod, Robert. Will—July 6, 1828—probated
                    September 9, 1828—mentions wife Elizabeth, and children: Noah, Sarah,
                    Stephen, Benjamin, John, Robert, Elizabeth Evans.
            
               Blackburn, Joseph. Will—July 22,
                    1828—probated September 25, 1828—Joseph Blackburn of
                    Paoli, late from 
                        Bedford
                     County, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    —brother-in-law, Joseph Potts of Paoli, to hold all of
                    estate for infant daughter, Jane Eliza Blackburn. In case of death of daughter
                    before reaching maturity, the estate to go to testator's brother Lewis,
                    of 
                        Ohio
                    , and brothers Samuel, John, Josiah, sister Esther, brother-in-law
                    John Potts, sister-in-law Elizabeth Fou, formerly Potts, Mary 
                  
                     1 This is a continuation of an article by Mrs.
                            Mavity on "Early Wills of 
                                Orange
                             County, Indiana," which appeared in the last issue
                            of Indiana Magazine of History (September, 1988),
                            XXXIV, 884–887.
                  
                     2 See Will of Daniel Freeman, husband of Jane
                            Freeman, ibid., 885.
                  
                     3 Stephen Glover was the son of Uriah Glover, said
                            to have been a Revolutionary soldier. See Indiana Magazine
                                of History (March, 1988), XXXIV, 15.
                  
                     4 This Bible is in the possession of Miss Mary
                            Cammack, 
                                Plainfield
                            , Indiana, a granddaughter of Gulielma (Lindley) Woody.
                  
                     5 Thomas Lindley, son of Jonathan Lindley, whose
                            will appears above.
               
                     Belek, formerly Potts, nephew Josiah
                    Penrose, infant son of William Penrose, all of 
                        Bedford
                     County, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , said Joseph Potts, sister-in-law Sarah, now of Paoli, and sister
                    Margaret Blackburn of 
                        Bedford
                     County, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . Witnesses: Daniel Dayhuff, Z. Lindley, Ephraim Doan, C. F.
                    Spooner.
            
               Lindley, Owen. Date of execution of will
                    missing—probated July 21, 1828—mentions wife Grace and
                    children: James, Thomas, Aaron, Sarah McVey, Martha Thompson, Polly Hollowell,
                    Queen Amy, Elizabeth, Elener, Grace, David, Owen,
                    Chambers.—witnesses: Thomas Newlin, Aaron Andrew, Silas Dixon.
            
               Ribble, John. Will—June 2, 1828—probated
                    January 17, 1829—mentions wife Margaret and children: John Strite,
                    Lorran, Barbary, Catherine, Susan, Sarah Ruth.
            
               Gwinn, Isom. Will—October 26,
                    1830—probated January 6, 1831—wife Mary, children
                    mentioned but names not given.
            
               Cox, Joseph. Will—November 17,
                    1818—probated February 18, 1831—wife Mary, children
                    mentioned but names not given.
            
               Clifton, William. Will—March 30,
                    1831—probated May 31, 1831—wife Jenny, children mentioned
                    but names not given—executors: wife and Calramdor Reubison.
            
               Jones, Samuel. Will—March 29,
                    1831—probated July 7, 1831—mentions wife Amelia, sons:
                    Moses, David, Samuel; presumably daughters: Elizabeth Woodward and Nancy
                    Busick—Littleton Woodward and wife are mentioned as "living
                    in my house."—executor, Thomas Vandeveer.
            
               Pearce, Philip Crafford. Will—Octover 9,
                    1829—probated August 10, 1831—wife Catherine—to
                    Berilla Elliot, one bed and bedding—Absolem McCabe to take part of
                    real estate when wife's interest shall cease.6
            
            
               Freeman, Benjamin. Will—September 17,
                    1831—probated April 2, 1832—mentions wife Polly7 and sons: Hilliman, Benjamin, George, John,
                    William—other legatees: heirs of daughter 
                        Sidney
                    ; sons of Gabriel Freeman, deceased: Benjamin and Edmund; heirs of
                    daughter Sally, deceased, first wife of Levi Johnson.
            
               Cutsinger, Martin. Will—December 12,
                    1831—probated May 21, 1832—no wife
                    mentioned—children: Jacob, Catherine Freit, Elizabeth Freit, Michael,
                    Polly Sparling, Margaret Gammon, William, Sally Cutsinger, Martin.
            
               Webb, Martin. Will—November 24, 1828—date
                    probated omitted on record—mentions wife Martha and children: Andrew,
                    John, William, Nancy, Caty, and "one she is like for."
            
               Gifford, Levi. Will—August 5,
                    1832—probated September 15, 1832 mentions wife Mararet and sons:
                    Peleg, Jesse, Levi; surviving children of Abagail and Daniel Ellis.
            
               White, Joseph. Will—February 8,
                    1833—probated May 13, 1833—mentions wife Jane and eldest
                    son; other legatees: Sarah Williams, the heirs to Elizabeth Williams, the heirs
                    of Polly Hinton, Hannah Standeford, 
                  
                     6 This family is of Southeast Township, 
                                Orange
                             County, Indiana.
                  
                     7 The first wife of Benjamin Freeman was Margaret
                            Divine. They were married in Mercer County, 
                                Kentucky
                            , in 1786. Polly Watts, mentioned as his wife in the will,
                            was a second wife.
               
                     Ephriam Linn, Jane White, Amelia
                    White—Hannah Standeford to have a certain tract of land during her
                    life, and same then to go to her children: William, Wesley, John Robison, and
                    Joseph Wright.—witnesses: William Case, Jane Hutchison.
            
               Towell, Jesse, Jr. Will—July 21,
                    1833—probated December 9, 1833—mentions wife (name not
                    given), infant daughters Parthena and Mary Ann; wife's sister Margaret
                    White, son John W. Towell.—executor, John Towell, Sr., his father.
            wife Elizabeth—witnesses: John Prosses, Hiram Kirk, Alfred Bruner.
            
               Byram, Lewis. Will—April 25,
                    1834—probated August 11, 1834—wife
                    Elizabeth—witnesses: John Prosses, Hiram Kirk, Alfred Bruner.
            
               Bond, Reuben. Will—June 25, 1834—Probated
                    August 4, 1834—mentions wife Penelope, children: Martha, Jane, John,
                    Martha Anelya, Mary Ann, Henrietta—executor, Ezer 
                        Cleveland
                    . A will made in 
                        South Carolina
                     is revoked.8
            
            
               McCracken, Robert, Will—September 20,
                    1834—probated November 11, 1834—mentions son Thomas,
                    Eleanor McCracken and other children: John, Peter, Robert, Lucy, Shade,
                    Elizabeth Street, Polly.
            
               Towell, Jesse, Sr. Will—May 4,
                    1834—probated June 2, 1834—mentions wife of son John and
                    her many kindnesses, and his daughters: Rebecca Hadley, Mary Piggott, Margaret
                    Hadley; children of Sarah Harvey, deceased.—son Daniel mentioned in
                    an added note—executor, son John—witnesses: Thomas Newlin,
                    Solomon Cox.
            
               Lindley, Thomas. Will—November 23,
                    1835—probated December 14, 1835—mentions sons Reuben and
                    Thomas, and daughters: Jane Green, Sarah Andrew, Mary Newlin, Hannah Cloud,
                    Eleanor Love—executor, John Cloud—witnesses: David
                    Lindley, Samuel Lindley.9
            
            
               Evans, Caleb. Will—Orleans, Indiana, August 20,
                    1835—probated October 22, 1835—"I, Caleb Evans a
                    citizen of 
                        Chester
                     County, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . … "—effects in tse hands of John B.
                    Moyer, innkeeper at Orleans, Indiana, horse, saddle, bridle, clothing,
                    saddlebags, valise, $495.00 cash—mentions sisters: Mary
                    Gibbs, wife of William Gibbs, Ann Merrydith, wife of Richard Merrydith, of West
                    Caln Township, 
                        Chester
                     County, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , Leah Patton, wife of T. H. Patton of 
                        Salisbury
                     Township, 
                        Lancaster
                     County, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    —mentions also Caleb Evans, Jr., son of Joseph and Zilpha
                    Evans of 
                        Huntington
                     County, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    .
            
               Holliday, Hannah. Will—April 12,
                    1829—probated October 17, 1835—mentions son Henry,
                    housekeeper, Jane Hadley—residue of estate to be sold and divided
                    agreeable to the will of her deceased husband—witnesses: John
                    McDaniel, Aaron Andrew.
            
               Erton, Peter. Will—September 21,
                    1835—probated November 28, 1835—to son-in-law, Thomas
                    Bedster and his wife Matilda, real estate and personal property—to
                    Zachariah Green and his wife, one dollar—to son Henry Erton, one
                    dollar—to son-in-law John Teter and his wife Nancy, one
                    dollar—witnesses: James Wilson, Azor Wilson. (The testator was a
                    Revolutionary War pensioner.)
            
               
                  8 Reuben Bond is said to have been a well-respected
                        colored man of Northwest Township, 
                            Orange
                         County, Indiana.
               
                  9 Jane Andrew Maris, my grandmother, was the daughter
                        of Sarah Andrew, daughter of Thomas Lindley.
            
            
            
               Johnson, Lancelot. Will—September 3,
                    1836—probated September 25, 1836—wife Nancy R. Johnson;
                    children mentioned, but names not given.
            
               Millis, Enoch. Will—February 29,
                    1836—probated May 14, 1836—mentions wife Susannah, brother
                    Nichosan and sons: Edward and Jacob, under 21 years of age—daughters:
                    Polly, Lydia Ann, Sarah Jane, Hester Ellen. This is a very lengthy will, much
                    land is described.
            
               Willson, Absolem. Will—April 10,
                    1835—proved May 5, 1835—mentions daughters Priscilla and
                    Elizabeth; children of daughter Fanny, deceased—witnesses: Isaac
                    Bridgewater, David T. Wilson, Jno. Prosser.
            
               Lindsay, Mary. Will—January 18,
                    1836—probated March 5, 1836—mentions Polly Case, who had
                    already received some personal property; children: James, Michael, 
                        Fulton
                    ; the children of his deceased daughter Eliza Vontress, to wit:
                    Susan Lindsay Vontress, Samuel Tyler Vontress, Eliza Lindasy Vontress. Elizabeth
                    Carr estate is mentioned, as is the estate of the testator's father,
                    Michael Carr.
            
               Seybold, Jno. Will—June 10, 1830—probated
                    August 1, 1836—wife Sarah—witnesses: John Moore, Thomas
                    Moore, William Leonard, Reuben Moore.
            
               Carter, Shadrach Blunt Anderson. Will—March 5,
                    1835—probated April 7, 1835—mentions wife Margaret and
                    children: Elizabeth Kene Vontress (later Conder), Catherine Carpenter, Maria
                    Jane, B. A. Shadrach, Ann Eliza, Margaret, Theophilus, John Conder Carpenter,
                    Harriet Frances, and Henry Carpenter Carter. (This is a very long will.)
            
               Carr, Elizabeth. Will—September 2,
                    1835—probated September 22, 1835—mentions sister Margaret 
                        Mitchell
                     and nieces: Emily Carr, Mary Carr, Susan 
                        Mitchell
                    , and Elizabeth 
                        Campbell
                    ; nephews: Elzey 
                        Mitchell
                    , David 
                        Campbell
                    , son of Samuel 
                        Campbell
                    , and Michael Lindsay; brothers: Thomas G. and James Carr; sisters
                    Polly Lindsay and Sina 
                        Campbell
                    —executors: Samuel 
                        Campbell
                     and John Hostutter.
            
               Lynch, Clayton. Will—January 10,
                    1837—probated February 6, 1837—mentions wife Ann and
                    children: John, William, Pennelajane, James, Mary Elmira, Thomas H., Henry M.,
                    George Lynch—executor, Samuel Stalcup.
            
               Lindley, William. Will—December 22,
                    1835—probated March 7, 1837—mentions wife Annie, and
                    children: Thomas Samuel, James, Owen, William, David, Jonathan, Sally Lee, Mary
                    Lee, Annie Harned, and Grace Wilkins Lindley; the sons of Grace Wilkins: John
                    and William, under 21—executors: sons Owen and William and grandson
                    Thomas.
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
