
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 4, Issue 1, pages 1-54. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:4+issue:1+year:1908&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
      
      
         
         
            EARLY COMMERCE IN INDIANA.
            THE resources of Indiana were for pears almost wholly agricultural,*
                    and the citizen was, to the greatest possible degree, self-supporting and self-sufficient within the
                    limits of a very narrow life. The farm supplied the farmer not only with most of the food that went
                    upon his table, but with flax and wool for his clothing and hides for his shoes. He was, not
                    infrequently', his own tanner and shoemaker; with his ax and draw-knife and shaving-horse,
                    supplemented, perhaps, by a "burning-iron" for an auger, he was as often
                    cabinet-maker as husbandman, possessing, indeed, a versatility and resourcefulness that, considering
                    his scant equipment, was astonishing. The housewife and her daughters not only cut and made the
                    family garments, but spun and wove the fabrics for the same. The immense advantage of division of
                    labor by expert specialists which, along with improved machinery, has at the present so multiplied
                    and cheapened commodities, they practically entirely missed, though a step in this direction was the
                    itinerant "spinsters" and shoemakers, told of by some chroniclers, who went from
                    home to home plying their trades where required.
            But with all this self-sufficiency with which the average pioneer began life in the new country, he
                    was by no means independent of the advantages of civilization, and his dependence increased as, with
                    thrift, his wants increased. Of a large class few were satisfied with spicebrush tea and parched
                    grain coffee, with wholly home-made clothes and conveniences, and with the total absence of finery
                    and luxury. In copies of the Vincennes Sun of 1816 we find sundry modest
                    advertisements of unspecified merchandise. These advertisements rapidly grow in number and in
                    length. In the file of the following year appears 
                  
                     * The principal articles of trade are horses, mules,
                            cattle, swine, flour, corn, whisky and lumber, which are either exchanged at home for
                            foreign goods, or transported for sale to the southern market.—Indiana Gazette, 1823, p. 18.
                  
               
                     a goodly variety of commodities, comprising dry goods, hardware,
                    fine boots and shoes, millinery and hats, saddlery, whisky and salt. In 1818 commercial
                    advertisements occupy large and conspicuous place in the pages of the Sun, and
                    these continue to increase in diversity.
            
               
                        Indianapolis
                    , where the difficulties of importing were far more serious than at 
                        Vincennes
                    , and the trade of which may be fairly regarded as representing the social necessities,
                    was hardly behind 
                        Vincennes
                    . In the earliest local paper accessible to us—The Western
                        Censor and Emigrant's Guide—we find, two years after the founding of
                    the town, the advertisement of Comer, Tyner & Co., whose stock includes "cloths,
                    cassimeres, baize, cassinetts, flannels, blankets, bombazetts, robes, dress shawls, Calicoes,
                    cambrick, muslins, shirtings, vesting, hosiery, nankeens, handkerchiefs, umbreilas and parasols,
                    plaids, stripes and cham-brays, linen, hats, combs, bonnets, shoes—black, coloured and
                    morocco, spoons, knives and forks, saws, files, saddlery, school books, butcher, shoe and pen
                    knives, chissels, gouges and plane bitts, hammers and hatchets, hinges and screws, padlocks,
                    latchets, spades, shovels, tongs, cotton and wool cards, augers, &c., &c. Also,
                    queensware and glassware, groceries, powder, lead and shot, iron, steel and nails, chalk and Spanish
                    whiting, tinware, &c., &c."*
            
            Elsewhere we find coffees, teas, sugars, wines and other spirits, drugs and nostrums, segars,
                    tobaccos and pipes, indigo and foreiga dpe stuffs, oils, soaps, spices, confectionery, trunks,
                    musical instruments, stationery and books, shad and mackerel, watches and clocks, 10-plate
                        stoves,† patent ploughs, mill furnishings and other articles
                    representing the importations of the country.
            
               
                        
                     * Of all the imports none was considered more important than
                            whisky and salt, and the same paper quoted sees fit to announce with a capitalized heading
                            and an exclamation point, the following important item of news:
                        "KEEL BOAT NEWS!
                        "Arrived at the landing opposite 
                                Indianapolis
                            , on Saturday last, Keel Boat Dandy, with 28 ton cargo, consisting of Salt and
                            Whisky, the property of S. and D. Miller, of Maysville."
                    
               
                  †
                        First Stove in 
                                Wabash
                            
                  .—The first stove in 
                            Wabash county
                         maw purchased in 
                     Pittsburg, Pa.
                  , by Arch Stitt, taken to the
                            Ohio river and conveyed by bateau to the 
                            Wabash
                         and up that river to 
                            Lafayette
                        . From that place the trip to the Stitt home in Rich Valley was
                        made by way of the old canal. The stove was an exceedingly heavy affair, with three raises, or
                        steps, and both the pipe and stove were great curiosities to the neighbors, who drove several
                        miles to see them. Other stoves were introduced soon afterward, but fireplaces and ovens, the
                        latter outside of the house, continued in use many years later,—Wabash
                            Plain Dealer.
            
            
            This description from Young's History of 
                        Wayne County
                     (p. 63) presents a vivid picture of the pioneer store:
            "Smith's store, inside, would be regarded by most of our readers as a curiosity
                    shop. Here was a rude counter; there were a few shelves fixed up to the log wall. On these were seen
                    packages of Barlow knives, with a sample knife outside for a sign; sheep shears done up in the same
                    manner; also gimlets, augers, etc. There were sickles wherewith to cut the first crops of wheat,
                    hair sieves, trace chains, blind bridles, curry-combs, and numerous other necessaries for the
                    farmers. Nor were the wants of their wives and daughters forgotten. They there found calico, fine
                    cambric, cap-stuff, pins, needles, etc. Here were sold some of the first wedding garments for the
                    settlers' daughters, and here was kept also a small stock of imported broadcloth, but
                    rather too fine for many to wear. Occasionally a young man who wished to appear in a coat of blue
                    cloth, with yellow metal buttons, a high and rolling collar, and a forked tail, after the fashion of
                    those days, got his outfit here. Smith increased his stock from time to time, to supply the demand
                    of the constantly increasing population, and being for several years the only merchant in the
                    county, he acquired an extensive and lucrative trade." This was in 
                        Richmond
                    , in 1810. Smith was said to have brought his first stock by pack-saddle from 
                        Cincinnati
                     or from Eaton, O. The wagon trips, later, to 
                        Cincinnati
                     for goods required from six to ten days. The number of these stores and the
                    extensiveness of their stocks, despite the risks and expense of securing them, shows that even in
                    those days in a material sense as well as spiritually, man could not live to himself alone. But the
                    difficulty of getting supplies was sometimes too great for even the most urgent demand to overcome.
                    The desperate straits attendant upon isolation is well illustrated by the following account given by
                    Robert Dale Owen in a little book on Plank Roads (p. 20). Though the story is located in 
                        Illinois
                     it might as readily have applied to Indiana. "Last winter," he says,
                    "the inhabitants of McLeansboro, a small town in southern 
                        Illinois
                    , some forty or fifty miles northwest of Shawneetown, found themselves, in consequence
                    of the miserable condition of the roads around them, cut off from all supplies and thus deprived of
                    coffee, sugar and other necessaries of  life. Tempting offers were
                    made to several teamsters, but none of them would stir from home. At last a farmer in the
                    neighborhood declared that he had a team of four horses that no mud could daunt, and that he would
                    risk a trip to Shawneetown and bring back the necessary supplies. Ten days elapsed, and his empty
                    wagon was slowly and painfully dragged into town by two drooping and jaded horses scarcely to be
                    recognized as part of the fresh and spirited team that started on this expedition. Their owner, by
                    great exertions, had reached Shawneetown, where he took in about half a load. Two of his horses were
                    killed in the attempt to return, his load was left, perforce, on the road, and the surviving horses
                    were so worn down by the trip as to be unfit for use during the rest of the winter."
            Judge D. D. Banta, in his history of 
                        Johnson county
                    , tells of a teamster who, hauling a load of goods to an 
                        Indianapolis
                     merchant, had to roll off and leave in the woods a barrel of salt which, owing to the
                    continued "horrible" condition of the road, remained there till the barrel went to
                    staves, and "one of the most celebrated ‘dry licks’ ever known in the
                    county was the consequence."
            The securing of the money wherewith to purchase supplies was sometimes no less difficult. In the
                    transforming of the surplus wealth of the country into this wealth from abroad the producer was at
                    every disadvantage. His over plus of hogs, cattle and grain were a drug until he got them to a
                    distant market, and even then the price was wholly out of proportion to the labor and cost of
                    getting them there. The hauling of a load of wheat for perhaps more than a hundred miles over
                    quagmire roads was an arduous undertaking, aside from several days' time consumed, and
                    instances are told of farmers who, after this drive to 
                        Madison
                     or 
                        Cincinnati
                    , turned about disgusted at the low prices offered and hauled their loads back home in
                    hopes of better returns later. Nor was the urging of a drove of reluctant hogs over the same road
                    less laborious. That they might be equal to the trip, we are told, they were sometimes put into a
                    field "where men employed for the purpose drove them back and forth for several days in
                    order to train them for driving on the road.* Their condition as to
                    fatness after this "training" and 
                  
                     * D. D. Banta in Indianapolis News, June
                            8, 1888.
               
                     the following long drive to market may be guessed at. The cost of
                    drovers and the expenses upon the road cut down the margin of profit no little, and after the market
                    was reached the owner was subject to the depressed prices of an almost illimitable supply that
                    flowed from all parts of a vast hog-producing area. And what was true of hogs was true of other
                    animals that found their way to market by foot as the easiest way of transportation.
            Or, if the settler was so located that he could take advantage of navigable water and float his
                    produce down by flat-boat, while he could carry on the craft many times more than by his wagon, the
                    risks of loss were multiplied; his market was far-off 
                        New Orleans
                    , the time occupied was weeks instead of days, and the expense back with his proceeds,
                    whether by steamboat or, as some chose, by foot or horse, through hundreds of miles of wilderness,
                    carried with it both expense and risk.
            Again, if he sold at home, the limited market, glutted with an over-supply of such things as he
                    produced, afforded him next to nothing. Some of the prices quoted are ridiculously low: Dressed
                    pork, $1.00 per hundred; wheat, 37 1/2 cents per bushel; corn, 10 to 25 cents; oats, 8 to
                    12 1/2 cents; butter, 3 to 8 cents per pound; eggs, 3 to 5 cents per dozen; chickens, 50 to 75 cents
                    per dozen; turkeys, 15 to 25 cents each, and wild meats, skins and ginseng, which were made
                    tributary to the income, at proportionate rates. Young cattle are given as low as $2.50
                    each; milch cows, $5.00 to $10.00, and good work horses at $25.00
                    to $50.00.*
            
            These products disposed of at these rates were not even sold for cash, but, for the most part,
                    exchanged for high-priced imports, such as muslin at 50 cents per yard; common calico at 37 1/2
                    cents, and other fabrics, as well as tea, coffee, etc., in proportion. It required about a bushel of
                    oats to buy a pound of nails; a bushel of wheat or two bushels of corn to buy a yard of calico or a
                    pound of coffee. Maurice Thompson, in his "Stories of Indiana," (p. 209) says that
                    "a yard of silk cost as much as eighty bushels of corn would sell for. Calico was exchanged
                    at the rate of one yard for eight bushels of corn. Good broadcloth 
                  
                     * See D. D. Banta's smaller history of 
                                Johnson County
                            , pp. 67–69; Young's 
                                Wayne County
                            , pp. 62–63; and Elliott's 
                                Evansville
                             and 
                                Vanderburg County
                            , pp. 98–99.
               
                     commanded one hundred bushels of corn per yard." Under
                    these conditions the commonest queensware and pewter on the table were more objects of pride than
                    cut glass and sterling silver at the present day; the few ounces of tea were treasured for special
                    company occasions; the girl's dress of calico was kept for Sunday wear, and was kept long,
                    regardless of change of style in 
                        Paris
                    ; while the broadcloth suit with which the young man, if he made pretense to gentility,
                    equipped himself for his wedding was, in the words of Judge Banta, "to be the suit of his
                    life and to last for dry-weather Sunday wear for many years."
            The reasons for these high prices are not Ear to seek. Some of the difficulties of the importer, even
                    in the more accessible parts of the State, are set forth in Elliott's History of 
                        Evansville
                     and 
                        Vanderburg County
                     (pp. 98–100). The early merchants in that section awaited their supplies
                    from eastern markets as a coast merchant might the return of the sailing vessels from foreign ports.
                    "Articles of wearing apparel, cloth, cutlery, etc., had to be purchased in such markets as 
                        Baltimore
                     and 
                        Philadelphia
                    , and hauled over the mountains to 
                        Pittsburg
                     in wagons, and from there boated down to the villages on the Ohio
                    river." As a result, the transportation tariff added to the original cost made
                    the articles almost prohibitory except for the well-to-do. Nails, for example, were so high that few
                    were used in the construction of the log houses or upon the farm at all. The wagon-maker managed to
                    use not more than two or three pounds of these in making a wagon-bed, and the blacksmith very often
                    made his own horseshoe nails. This, it must be borne in mind, was immediately on the 
                        Ohio
                    , the great artery of western commerce. When, after leaving the river, goods had to be
                    wagoned far into the interior, it is evident that the inequalities of exchange must be increased.
                    The wagon rates, for example, from the falls of the 
                        Ohio
                     to 
                        Terre Haute
                     were Sl.50 per hundred pounds.
            Something of a factor in the exchange and distribution of commodities was the peddler, who, by wagon
                    or afoot, carried on his itinerant traffic. Elliott, in his History of 
                        Vanderburg County
                    , gives an account of the origin and service of the peddling system in his section.
                    Enterprising merchants and traders of the East, he tells us, "started peddling wagons all
                    through  this section. These wagons contained all sorts of
                    supplies that were sold to the farmers for cash or traded for eggs, chickens, turkeys, feathers,
                    butter, and even bacon. In fact these peddlers mould take anything that they could dispose of in the
                    Eastern markets, in exchange for their goods. The pack peddlers also followed the country roads and
                    were merchants in their small way. In the early history of the settlements of this section the pack
                    peddlers were mostly Irishmen or Scotchmen. The tramp artisan was also a means of transportation,
                    but he only carried small supplies with which repairs of tinware, etc., were made. Pack-horses and
                    donkeys were not infrequently seen on the highway."
            GEORGE S. COTTMAN.
            
         
         
            EARLY WAGON TRANSPORTATION.
            [From an interview with William McFarland, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , who, during the thirties, hauled merchandise from the Ohio river
                    markets.]
            THE old-time teamsters were proud of their calling and of their teams, and by way of expressing their
                    pride, frequently put bows over the hames hung with small bells, and with a number of these bows,
                    aggregating perhaps a score and a half of bells to a team, they lumbered through the mud to a
                    perpetual melange of melody. In addition they sometimes put over the hames broad
                    housings or shoulder protectors of bearskin dressed with the hair on, and a horse thus equipped was
                    as vain as a rustic dandy. It was an unwritten law of the road that if a man stalled, and another
                    teamster could haul him out with the same number of horses, the latter was entitled to the bells and
                    housings of the weaker team. The driver never occupied a seat on the wagon, but always rode the
                    "near" horse, and armed with a long "blacksnake" whip, tipped
                    with a silken lash that cracked viciously, managed the pulling power of his team with a skill that
                    approached a fine art.
            Bad roads were the bane of those days, and the varying condition of these had much to do with the
                    size of the load that  could be hauled and the time occupied in
                    the trip. Under favorable conditions ten days to and from 
                        Madison
                     or 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , and twelve days for the 
                        Cincinnati
                     trip were counted on; but sometimes it took almost twice that long, and in the latter
                    cases the profits of the business were meager. The tariff was about 82.00 to $2.50 a
                    hundred weight, and with fair roads thirty hundred weight could be hauled with four horses.
            Tavern keeping in those days was an important business, and houses of entertainment were strung all
                    along the roads. Like the hostleries of to-day, some of them were good and some not so good, and the
                    sagacious teamster on a thoroughfare not familiar to him, began looking out about stopping time, for
                    two signs—a wagon-yard liberally littered with hay and a fat house dog. The former would
                    indicate that the place was well patronized by wagoners, and the inference from the latter was that
                    where there were plenty of scraps for the dog there would also be plenty of food for the guests.
            These taverns were provided with large yards for wagons and swine, and within the house guests could
                    be accommodated variously. The upstairs, perhaps, would be partitioned off into small bedrooms,
                    where the fastidious guests could have privacy by paying for it, but a large general room on the
                    ground floor, where the less particular traveler could stretch out on the floor, wrapped in his
                    blanket, usually served the teamsters. In this apartment, perhaps, would be a miniature barroom,
                    consisting of a deep closet with liquor on its shelves. Another feature, also, would be the saddle
                    closet somewhere about the room where the riding paraphernalia was safely kept.
            This mode of transportation continued and grew until the ‘50’s, when the
                    introduction and rapid development of railroads caused a swift decadence and the big-topped
                    "Conestoga" and the jangling bells passed into history.
            G. S. C.
         
         
         
            SOME VINCENNES DOCUMENTS.
            [The following are copies from original documents now in the office of the Clerk of 
                        Knox County
                    , Indiana.—G. S. C.]
            THE WILL OF THOMAS POSEY.
            IN the Name of God, Amen. I, Thomas Posey, of 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , Ind. Ty., being of sound mind, but knowing the uncertainty of life, doth make and
                    ordain this, my last will and testament, revoking all others heretofore made.
            I commit my soul to God who gave it, with a hope of pardon for my sins and reconciliation through the
                    atoning mercies of my Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ; and my body to be interred in a plain and
                    decent manner.
            My beloved wife, Mary Posey, being considerably advanced in years, my desire is to place her in the
                    most agreeable situation that my property may admit of, and to her own wishes. It will be verp
                    troublesome for her to keep house. I would therefore recommend that she should live with one of her
                    children. Should she make choice of this mode, my will and desire is that my executors or
                    administrators shall furnish her with the necessary supplies for her maintenance, and that she shall
                    have a servant to wait upon her, and such part of my furniture as may be necessary during her life.
            My children, John, Fayette, Lloyd, Thornton A., William C., and Eliza Maria, I leave assigned to each
                    such portions of my property as I was able to give. To Lloyd, Thornton and Eliza Maria, I gave two
                    slaves each, and made over to them certain lands, the titles of which are found defective, and a
                    compromise haring taken place with John Lewis, by which he relinquished to me a debt that I owed by
                    law given Warner Lewis of about two thousand dollars, I mean to compensate for the defect of titles
                    of the land given them each one-third of the $2,000.
            The residue of my estate I give to my children, Thomas, Alex, Washington A. G. and Sarah Ann T. T.,
                    except should Mr. Francis and Mrs. Lucy Fitzhugh make over property to Sarah Ann T. T. to the amount
                    of a fourth part of the residue of my property, then in that case I devise that she should only
                    receive a mourning ring.
            
            Whatever property I may have remaining I direct may be disposed of in manner that my executors or
                    administrators may agree upon, and I direct that they make deeds of conveyance for all lands, either
                    sold or to be sold, and collect all debts owing me, and pay all debts justly due.
            My Order of 
                        Cincinnati
                     I give to John Posey; my sword and brass-barrel pistols to Thomas Posey; my watch to
                    Alex Posey; my Stony Point pistols to Fayette Posey; my cane with gold head to Joseph M. Street; my
                    sword cane to A. D. Thorn; my library to Lloyd and Thornton A. Posey; my riding horse and gold
                    epaulets to Washington A. G. Posey, and a mourning ring to Eliza Maria Street.
            I authorize my executors or administrators to either make sale of the residue of my property or make
                    a dividend as may best suit the legatees, and as may be agreed upon by the said executors or
                    administrators.
            I constitute and appoint my sons, Thomas, Alex and Washington A. G. Posey executors of this, my last
                    will and testament, any one of which by the consent of the others, may make deeds of conveyance to
                    any of my lands.
            Given under my hand this sixth day of April in the year of our Lord Christ, 1816.
            THOMAS POSEY.
            Filed April 14, 1818.
            [Total appraisement of estate, $957.75. Chattels. Another inventory of one 
                        Dearborn
                     wagon and two pairs harness, etc., at $270.00, and one bay horse, saddle and
                    bridle, etc., at $130.00. The first inventory made by Benj. Parke and John D. Hay.]
            A SUIT AGAINST GEORGE ROGERS CLARKE.
            LAURENT BAZADON, Merchant, vs. GEORGE ROGERS CLARKE.} Attachment, $20,000.
            BE it remembered that heretofore, to-wit, during the vacation and after the adjournment of the August
                    court, which was in the year one thousand seven hundred and ninety-six, the said Laurent sued out of
                    this court a writ of attachment, called a writ of foreign attachment against the said George Rogers
                    Clarke, which said writ is in the words and figures following to-wit: Territory of the 
                        United States
                     northwest of the river 
                    
                  Ohio, Knox
                    County
               , Sct. The 
                        United States
                     to the Sheriff our said County of 
                        Knox
                    , greeting: We command you to attach all and singular the goods and chattels, rights and
                    credits, lands and tenements and hereditaments of George Rogers Clarke, of the County of Jefferson
                    in the State of 
                        Kentucky
                     (as is supposed) that may be found in your bailiwick, and a true return thereof make
                    before the justices of our County Court of Common Pleas next to be holden in 
                        Vincennes
                    , in and for our said County of 
                        Knox
                    , on the first Tuesday of November next; then and there in our said Court to satisfy the
                    demand of Laurent Bazadon, merchant. In case the said Laurent shall establish his demand in a plea
                    of trespass, therefore, with force and arms the said George entered the house of the said Laurent
                    and took away the goods, wares and merchandise of him, the said Laurent, to the damage of the said
                    Laurent, the sum of twenty thousand dollars, before us ourselves to be exhibited. Hereof fail not,
                    and of this writ make due return. Witness Pierre Gamelin, Esq., first justice of our said court at 
                        Vincennes
                    , the fifth day of August, in the year one thousand seven hundred and ninety-six. R.
                    Buntin, prothonotary.
            On which said writ is the following return, to-wit: One 20-acre lot on the mill run; one 20-acre lot
                    joining; one 9-acre lot facing the rapid; one 6-acre lot facing the rapid; one 940-acre lot joining
                    Clarksville; one 1/2-acre lot at the point of rocks supposed to be his. David Owens'
                    information. Mr. Laccapagne told me of a 500-acre tract, No. 18, the rest mortgaged to him. Levied
                    on the lands and tenements, etc., on the 30th September, 1796, rights and credits of G. R. Clarke.
                    Christopher Wyant, sheriff.
            On which return the plaintiff appeared by his attorney, and on motion it was ordered that the
                    Prothonotary do advertise in the Publick Gazette that unless the defendant do appear at the next
                    court that judgment will then be entered by default, and at the next term, to-wit, the tenth day of
                    February, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-seven, plaintiff appeared and the same was continued
                    until the next term, to file his declaration, at which time, to-wit, the eighth day of November, in
                    the year one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-seven, the plaintiff appeared and filed his certain
                    declaration against the defendant  in a plea of trespass, and
                    these are pledges for prosecution, to-wit, John Doe and Richard Roe, which declaration is in the
                    words and figures following, to-wit: 
                        County Knox
                     Sct. Laurent Bazadon, late of 
                        St. Vincennes
                    , in our said County, merchant, complains of George Rogers Clarke, of the County of
                    Jefferson, in the State of 
                        Kentucky
                     (as is supposed), and late General and commanding officer of a party of men, called the
                    Oubache regiment, of a plea of trespass for this, to-wit: Whereas, the said defendant on or about
                    the seventeenth day of October, in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and eighty-six,
                    in 
                        Vincennes
                    , in our said County of 
                        Knox
                    , and within the jurisdiction of this court, with force and arms, that is to say, with a
                    body of men under military appearance, armed with guns, swords, knives, etc., etc., broke and
                    entered the storehouse of the said plaintiff, and then and there took and carried away the goods,
                    wares and merchandise, furs, peltries, books and accounts and papers of the said plaintiff to the
                    value of twenty thousand dollars of the currency of the 
                        United States
                    , and the same detained and kept, and afterwards, to-wit, on the same day and year
                    aforesaid, at 
                        St. Vincennes
                    , in the same county, and within the jurisdiction of the said court, disposed of the
                    same to the said defendant's own use; and other injuries to him, the said plaintiff, and
                    then and there did against the peace of the 
                        United States
                    , and to the damage of the said plaintiff the sum of twenty thousand dollars, and
                    therefore he brings suit, etc. John Doe and Richard Roe pledges for prosecution. I. Darneale, p. q.,
                    and thereupon came the defendant by Gabriel Jones Johnson, his attorney, and on motion of plaintiff
                    for a continuance the same is laid over till to-morrow evening, at which time, to-wit, on Thursday
                    the eighth day of November in the Fear one thousand seven hundred and ninety-seven, the parties
                    appeared, the plaintiff in his proper person and the defendant by Gabriel Jones Johnson, his
                    attorney in fact, whereupon it was ordered by the court that the said action be withdrawn and that
                    the defendant recover of the plaintiff his costs and charges about his defense in that behalf
                    expended, and the plaintiff in mercy, etc.
            [From court book in 
                        Knox County
                     Clerk's office, "Minutes from 1796 to 1799." A record of
                    court cases. In this book Bazadon figures in fourteen different cases as plaintiff, This case was
                    dismissed by plaintiff on return of writ.]
         
         
         
            EARLY EDUCATIONAL CONDITIONS AND FOUNDING OF A DENOMINATIONAL COLLEGE.
            
                    ALLEN R. BENTON. LL. D.
                
            [Dr. Benton went to 
                        Rush county
                    , Indiana, in 1848; was the founder and principal of Fairview Academy 1848-'54;
                    after a year's study in 
                  Rochester, N. Y.
               , under Dr. Conant, he became professor of
                    "ancient languages" at the newly founded Northwestern Christian University in 
                        Indianapolis
                     1855-'61; was president of that institution 1861-'68, and was at a
                    later period of his life connected with it for many years. He is now living at 
                        Indianapolis
                    .]
            FROM 1816, the time of the first Constitution of Indiana, to 1851, the time of the second
                    Constitution, the work of education was carried on by the district schools, county seminaries,
                    private academies and bS colleges that began to be organized from and after 1830. This was a chaotic
                    period. Educational funds were mismanaged or lost, tramp teachers abounded, all were grievously
                    incompetent, and school equipment of all kinds was unknown. These schools for primary education, so
                    inadequate and almost intolerable, were supplemented from 1816 to 1851 by seminaries and private
                    academies. These supplied the deficiencies, to a degree, of the primary schools. In this period they
                    number seventy-three and deservedly have an honorable place in educational history.
            Coming to the State in 1848, I had the honor of organizing one of these academies in the eastern part
                    of the State.* For many years it was a center of educational
                    influence, attracting young men and young women to its advanced courses of study. These afterward
                    were greatly influential in the communities from which they came.
            This academy and those connected with it took an active part in advocating the adoption of the new
                    Constitution of 1851. This is our present State Constitution, making provision, from the primary
                    school to the university, for education free to all the youths of the State.
            This Constitution was strenuously opposed as unjust, undemocratic, 
                  
                     * Fairview Academy, Fairview, 
                                Rush county
                            .
               
                     and even dangerous. When taxation for the support of free
                    schools was under discussion in the State legislature, one member is quoted as saying,
                    "When I die, I want my epitaph written, ‘Here lies an enemy of free
                    schools.’" Wherever he is now, I doubt not he knows the unwisdom of that remark.
            The new Constitution, which is the organic act for our present unrivaled system of education, was
                    adopted by a scant majority, in round numbers, of 16,000 votes in a total vote of 140,000.
            The rise and growth of Indiana colleges form an interesting chapter in the educational history of the
                    State. These colleges sprang into existence within twenty years from 1830. A common impulse seemed
                    to generate them. A common need was to be supplied. For this common need the State made no adequate
                    provision, and, in fact, could not. All the colleges of the State, save one, sprang from the bosom
                    of the church. For nearly two thousand years the church had been the constant patron of education.
                    In the present there is no tendency to relax her efforts, and whatever criticism may be urged
                    against what are often called derisively "small colleges," they are here to stay.
                    In their original intent, they sought to train up an educated ministry; to maintain a religious
                    sentiment in all their work; to provide teachers of high character for all grades of schools; and in
                    a broad way to train men to become safe and effective leaders of thought in all the walks of life.
                    These ideals, essential to the civic and moral virtues of the state, appealed powerfully to the
                    religious sentiment of the people. Hence in the period from about 1830 to 1850, denominational
                    colleges were established and well distributed over the State. About twenty* of these colleges now exist and exert a strong, wholesome influence
                    throughout the State.
            In this State one fact is noteworthy, The number of students taught and graduated from the
                    denominational colleges far surpassed the number taught and graduated from the State institutions
                    giving literary degrees. The professors, courses of study and necessary equipment for work could
                    safely challenge comparison with any the State had provided. In this statement I do not include
                    technical schools of the State or private ownership, as they do not offer what is recognized as
                    college work.
            
               
                  * The number is given indefinitely owing to the vagueness with
                        which the terms "denominational" and "college" are still
                        used.
            
            
            In this period of educational ferment and denominational activity in founding colleges, the
                    Northwestern Christian University, now Butler College, had its origin. The number, the wealth, and
                    the spirit and purposes of the new religious movement, seemed to justify and even demand it. The
                    march of events during the last fifty years has fully vindicated the wisdom of its projectors. The
                    ideas which the founders of this college sought to bring into forceful activity—liberal,
                    catholic, Christian ideals—had at the time of its founding received slight recognition in
                    other institutions of the State.
            There were three leading constructive ideals that shaped from the first the policy of this
                    institution. These were opposition to the extension of slavery; the Christian religion and morals as
                    an integral part of its curriculum; and the liberal education of women in a system of coeducation.
            The name "Northwestern" was adopted for the university in order to emphasize the
                    belief that the Ordinance of 1737 forever consecrated to free labor this vast region of the great
                    northwest. This was then imperiled by the struggle for the possession of 
                        Kansas
                     and 
                        Nebraska
                    , and by the Dred Scott decision. The name adopted gave due notice that education in
                    this institution would not be subsidized so as to apologize for a social and industrial system at
                    war with human rights and industrial progress.
            The constructive idea, which doubtless took procedure of all others, was that this should be a
                    Christian institution; this not in some vague, colorless way, nor in sectarian or denominational
                    sense, but in a broad, catholic and positive sense—catholic as Christianity itself, to
                    whose author it was dedicated as a monument of loving service. The founders entertained the
                    conviction that no education was sound enough nor broad enough that did not include instruction in
                    the highest of all truths, the moral and religious as well as the intellectual truths. These
                    subjects are no doubt vast and complex, and are often disputatiously considered; but they are also
                    the basic truths of character and the inspiration of every noble life.
            In the organic act of this institution no concealment was made, but it was disclosed with
                    distinctness and emphasis, that the Christian faith and Christian morals should here be taught, and
                    should form an integral part of its courses of study. The 
                    earlier colleges of this country sprang from the bosom of the church. About one hundred existed
                    prior to 1820, and were the fruits of great personal self-denial and sacrifice, inspired by a
                    sublime faith in the divine necessity of the work. These colleges and those established subsequently
                    by religious bodies stand as a protest and safeguard against the increasing secularism of our time.
            The views which I have thus far presented find ample confirmation in a communication made by Ovid
                    Butler, whose honored name the university now bears, to the board of directors on the occasion of
                    his seventieth birthday. He says: "I have given to the institution what I have to offer of
                    care, counsel, labor, and of means for the purpose of building up, not merely a literary
                    institution, but for the building up of an institution of the highest class, in which the Divine
                    Character and the Supreme Lordship of Jesus Christ should be fully recognized and carefully taught
                    to all students; together with the science of Christian morality as taught in the Christian
                    Scriptures, and to place it in the front rank as the advocate and exponent of the common and equal
                    rights of humanity." Such were the formative ideas of the religious and philanthropic men
                    who founded this institution of learning.
            Another fundamental idea sought to be realized in this university was the liberal education of women.
                    At the opening of this institution in 1855, the idea that women needed or would be benefited by a
                    liberal education was generally questioned and often derided. With one or two exceptions, no
                    institution, East or West, of college grade, was willing to commit itself to the principle of the
                    coeducation of the sexes. The plan was generally believed to be impracticable, and its advocates
                    ridiculed as visionary. But with firm confidence in the wisdom as well as the justice of this
                    course, the founders of this institution opened wide its doors to all who were qualified to enter,
                    regardless of sex. And how fully has this wisdom been justified by the progress of events in the
                    last fifty years. With the exception of a few older colleges in the East, clinging to their hoary
                    traditions and former prejudices, all universities maintained at the expense of the State, and
                    denominational colleges, with very few exceptions, have gracefully accepted the doctrine of
                    coeducation,  and women are now admitted to the fullest
                    privileges of the best institutions of the land. This point is urged to indicate how broad was the
                    grasp of the issues in education; how much the founders of this institution were before the times;
                    and why they deemed it necessary to establish this university.
            Thus briefly have I sought to present the development of education in this State as typical of what
                    has taken place throughout this great northwest in its system of public education; also the rise of
                    denominational colleges as a part of the educational forces moulding the character of its people;
                    and the rise of Butler College as an important and influential factor in carrying forward the plans
                    of the authors of the Ordinance of 1787, who declared that religion, morality and knowledge should
                    be forever encouraged throughout the imperial region of the great northwest.
         
         
            INDIANA'S EARLY PENAL LAWS.
            ACOMPEND of the Acts of Indiana, printed in 1817, says that hog-stealing was punishable by a fine of
                    $100 and from twenty-fire to thirty-nine lashes on the bare back, well laid on.
                    Horse-stealing was punishable by fifty to one hundred lashes, and on second offense it became a
                    capital crime, punishable with death by hanging. Receiving stolen horses was punishable by death.
            Altering bounds incurred a fine of $5.00 and twenty lashes, and on second offense two days
                    in the pillory.
            Mayhem was punished by a fine of $50.00 to $1,000, and if the culprit was
                    unable to pay he was sold for five years to any one who might desire his labor.
            For manslaughter a man was branded in the hand with the letters "M. S."
            Obstructing officers was punishable with thirty-nine lashes.
            In 
                        Clarke county
                    , in 1507, a man named Ingram was convicted of horse-stealing and was condemned by the
                    jury to hang. Judge Waller Taylor was on the bench. Ingram was pardoned on the scaffold. This was
                    the only death sentence on record in 
                        Clarke county
                     for this offense. At that period the lash runs through the whole category of crimes and
                    misdemeanors.
            G. S. C.
         
         
         
            PIONEER FEATURES.
            
               BENJAMIN S. PARKER.
            [From Mr. Parker's historical studies of 
                        Henry county
                    , which last year furnished this magazine its series on "Pioneer
                    Life," we select these features of pioneer life observed along the National Road, where the
                    writer spent his boyhood—Editor.]
            
            
               Improved Farm Machinery—Gipsies—Negro Fortune-
                        Teller.
            IT was on the line of the old National Road that threshing machines made their appearance amongst the
                    backwoods farmers. The first was a crude, heavy affair of wood, with wooden cylinder and concave
                    filled with irregular rows of iron spikes. It made no pretense of separating the wheat from the
                    chaff, and these were shaken from the straw by men and boys with wooden rakes and forks. The power
                    was a rough combination of wooden wheels and iron cogs. It required from four to six strong horses
                    attached to the levers to make it revolve with sufficient rapidity to furnish power to the thresher.
                    Thirty to sixty bushels of wheat per day, when fanned up, was about the capacity of the machine.
            The next advance was a traveling thresher moved by cog wheels attached to the hubs of the wagons upon
                    which it was hauled about. This machine made a partially successful pretense of cleaning the wheat,
                    but scattered the straw and chaff and probably fifteen to twenty per cent of the grain about the
                    fields or along the roads. The introduction of these machines did not really lessen the
                    farmer's toil, but they mere sure prophecies of better methods and more perfect machines to
                    follow, and as such were hailed with gladness by the people who were just emerging from the era of
                    the primitive reap-hook or sickle, and the flail. The old method of cleaning the grain had been by
                    pouring it down from an elevation when a strong wind was blowing, or fanning it as it descended with
                    a great tow sheet held by  the corners and given the proper
                    motion by two persons skilled in the process.
            The improved fanning-mill, of the pattern that Will Cum-back's father was reproved by a
                    devout neighbor for having purchased, on the ground that it made "a wind contrary to
                    nater," and must, therefore, be offensive to the Lord, was rapidly coming into use, and the
                    fanning-mill peddler, with his long wagon of brilliant red wheat cleaners, was one of the patrons of
                    the old road who did not permit himself to be forgotten through long absences. He could smooth over
                    the defects and supplement the merits of his machines with as fine display of linguistic colors and
                    varnishes as ever were made in the new land.
            When the old traveling thresher, with six stout farm horses attached, driven by a rollicking country
                    Jehu, and fed by an expert—the bundles being thrown upon the band-cutter's table
                    from a wagon driven beside the thresher—came rattling and rumbling along the great road
                    on a display trip, scattering straw and chaff to the disgust of the townspeople and the great
                    delight of the pigs, chickens and little children, and closely followed by the inevitable
                    fanning-mill peddler with his newly painted mind-raisers, the rural heart beat high and happily, and
                    the agricultural statisticians figured out big profits for those who should thereafter cultivate
                    cereals in the wheat belt of 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana. They figured well, and were not mistaken in their calculations.
            
               The Gipsies.—From these avant couriers of agricultural
                    and inventive progress to a band of wandering Gipsies was a long stride. But great as it was, it did
                    not exceed the distance that seems to separate the Gipsies of the present—or many bands
                    of them—with their handsome, commodious wagons, pretty horses, comfortably dressed people
                    and fat dogs, from the beggarly outfits of shabby wagons and carts, bony old horses, poorly clad
                    women and children and skeleton dogs, that haunted the old highway in the years long ago.
            Camped beside the little streams and near the towns, they told fortunes, begged and swapped horses
                    with the movers and farmers. They were distrusted by everybody, except as to the matter  of reading the future and telling the fortunes of those who entrusted
                    them with their fates. The marvel of it all was not the skill of the Kanakee women in guessing at
                    the past and future of the willing victim, but the large number of people who trusted in them
                    implicitly. This class of citizens was not confined to the poor and ignorant, but embraced many of
                    the well-to-do people. In mattered not whether the dark-skinned priestess read fate through coffee
                    grounds and lines of the hand, consulted the sun and stars, or went at it off-hand and rattled away
                    until out of breath and short of prevarications; her statements were implicitly relied upon and
                    cheerfully paid for by people who would not have trusted their best friends in small business
                    transactions with any such degree of confidence. Of course the Gipsy seers were always wise enough
                    to locate the sorrows and disappointments of their patrons in the past, and paint their futures in
                    rosy colors. Women were more frequent in their patronage of the Kanakee fortune-tellers than men,
                    and love, marriage and domestic felicity, or infelicity, were the subjects upon which they were most
                    inquisitive.
            There was a widespread prejudice prevalent among the people against the Gipsies, based on the
                    tradition that they made a business of stealing babies and small children. Scarcely would a band of
                    those wanderers settle itself in some sheltered spot by the roadside, procure feed for its horses
                    from the neighboring farmers, by trading either fortune-telling or money for it, or by right of
                    discovery, than along would come a startling story that Gipsies—presumably the
                    same—had stolen a sweet babe from a neighboring town, who never would have been regained
                    but for the prompt and heroic action of the citizens in rushing to the pursuit and forcing the
                    prompt restoration of the precious prize. It is not impossible that such stories were set afloat by
                    the owners of corn fields, potato patches and chicken roosts, who were anxious that their Gipsy
                    neighbors should be induced to more on, an event that usually occurred as soon as the harrowing
                    tales had grown sufficiently to arouse the indignation of the credulous.
            
               The Negro Fortune-teller.—"Tickle Breeches"—though when or
                    how he obtained the name, if not from some rattling old tune 
                    akin to "leather breeches," would be hard to discover—was a cunning old
                    negro who boasted that he owned a musket "dat went troo de ole resolution war, en
                    ‘11 shoot er man dead er mile off." He had been a slave, and his otherwise
                    benevolent face bore the impress of the dissimulation and duplicity that the old environments had
                    imposed upon him and that his newer occupations required him to keep up, for he was a fortune-teller
                    of the first water, to whom fine town ladies in silks and satins paid willing tribute. He sweetened
                    up his work with wonderful stories and cunningly applied flatteries, in the use of which he far
                    excelled the Gipsies. Besides this he was one of the best of the old-fashioned fiddlers, and could
                    evoke such rhapsodies from his ancient violin as set heels and toes to tingling for the motion of
                    reel, jig or cotillion, and made him a great favorite at country dances. Though few of his clients
                    owned up to any degree of belief in his stories, yet they exerted sufficient influence in
                    strengthening the popular faith in his mystic powers as a voodoo to bring him many a
                    "levy" and quarter.
         
         
            MOVEMENT TO ERECT A MONUMENT TO GOVERNOR BIGGER.
            THE following resolution, passed by the City Council of 
                        Fort Wayne
                     early in February, 1908, largely through the initiative and influence of Mr. J. M.
                    Henry, will be of general interest:
            "In what was formerly known as the Broadway Cemetery, now known as the McCulloch Park, in
                    the city of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , there lie the remains of Samuel Bigger, ex-Governor of the State of Indiana. who
                    served in that official capacity from 1840 to 1843 with credit to himself and honor to the State,
                    after having served for many years as the sole representative of the State of Indiana in the House
                    of Representatives of the 
                        United States
                    , from  which office he resigned to accept that of
                    Governor of the State.* It may truly be said that he saved the honor
                    of the State in his refusal to consent to the repudiation of the then State debt, and it is no less
                    true that to his refusal was probably due a subsequent payment by the State of the debt, which at
                    that time others thought should have been repudiated. Never since that time has the State been on
                    the verge of repudiating its debt. It is certainly an honor to the city of 
                        Fort Wayne
                     that it can claim the residence, in part, of a governor of such immense value to the
                    State of Indiana, and the resting place of his body. This city never had the honor of claiming the
                    residence or burial place of any other governor of the State. Some years ago the exact spot where
                    lie the remains of Governor Bigger was discovered by the finding of an unmarked slab, which was
                    known at that time to be the spot where Governor Bigger had been interred. The slab, which had been
                    previous to that time neglected by the lack of any decoration or distinguishing mark to show, on the
                    part of the city, its appreciation of the honor of having this city the residence and burial place
                    of such a distinguished governor, was removed. The memorable spot can still be located by those who
                    know its location, and it would be a sad loss to the city of 
                        Fort Wayne
                     if, from the failure of the city to appropriately mark the spot, future generations
                    would be unable to locate the same. The spot which has so far been thus neglected should be by the
                    city befittingly marked by the erection of a suitable monument or other designation of respect and
                    honor; now, therefore, be it
            
               "Resolved, by the Common Council of the city of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , That it is the desire of the council that a suitable monument be erected on the grave
                    of Governor Samuel Bigger, that his name be perpetuated for future ages."
            
               
                  * Mr. Bigger served in the Indiana Legislature 1831 and 1833:
                        from 1536 till his nomination for governor he was judge of his judicial circuit. After his term
                        as governor he practiced law in For: 
                            Wayne
                        , where he died in 1845. — Woollen—Biographical
                            and Historical Sketches.
            
         
         
         
            WILLIAM DAWSON'S LIFE AND WORK.
            
               MRS. M. E. CHARLES.
            [Paper read before the 
                        Henry County
                     Historical Society.]
            WE speak of self-made men—men who have risen above adverse circumstances and have achieved
                    success upon some line of activity in life. In the subject of this sketch we have an example of a
                    self-made man, one who overcame many obstacles and, in a great measure, succeeded in his chosen
                    line. He was not a native of Indiana, but came from 
                        Starke county
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , with his parents when but a boy, and settled on a farm near 
                        Cadiz
                    , in this county. Here he grew up in a family of six children, receiving such education
                    as the limited facilities of that time permitted; and so well did he improve his opportunities that
                    he was considered competent to teach school and taught one term while living near 
                        Cadiz
                     and also a term or two at Sugar Grove, a mile and a half northwest of 
                        Spiceland
                    , Ind. Here, too, he began to turn his attention to the study of astronomy.
            Limited in means, he worked at a great disadvantage, making many of his instruments, for the most
                    part, out of whatever material was at hand. At the age of twenty he began keeping a record of the
                    weather. In the beginning he did not take the temperature daily, but a little later began doing so,
                    taking it three times a day; at 7 a. m., 2 p. m. and 9 p. m. This he kept up for a period of about
                    thirty-five years.
            He was married July 30, 1862, to Abigail Hammer, daughter of Elisha Hammer, one of the pioneers of 
                        Henry county
                    . They at first thought to set up their new home at 
                        Cadiz
                    , but circumstances occurred which induced them to sell their partly finished house, and
                    in March, 1863, they moved to 
                        Spiceland
                    . This was in the midst of the Civil War and laborers were so scarce that when building
                    their house there, William Dawson did a great deal of the work himself, and when ready for the lath
                    his wife helped to nail them on.
            
            An editorial in the Imdianapolis Journal (date unknown) says of him:
                    "Among the practically great and useful men of our age, but few, if any, now occupy a
                    higher place as an astronomer and philosophic thinker, than William Dawson, of Spice-land, Ind.
                    Prof. Dawson is to-day the self-made astronomer of America. His knowledge of that important branch
                    of scientific learning has not been acquired by any course of study known to the college graduate.
                    What he has learned as an astronomer he has gained only through other channels. He owes his present
                    great store of knowledge to nothing but his own industry. His hands have never known any other
                    calling than honest toil. By trade he is a shoemaker, and when not employed in calculating and
                    measuring the star-depths he may be found at his shoe bench."
            The dream of his early life was the possession of a telescope of four or five inches in diameter. But
                    it was not until 1867 that he could spare the two or three hundred dollars that was required to
                    obtain the glasses and parts that he could not make. After a good deal of correspondence with
                    different astronomers he set to work, as he expressed it, "to get all the telescope he
                    could for the money." He was well aware that a good object glass was the main thing, and he
                    sent to 
                        Boston
                     for one four and a half inches in diameter. This cost $185 In addition he
                    ordered three eye-pieces which cost five dollars each. In writing of this he said: "About
                    the most gratifying occasion of my life was the arrival and sight of glasses for a six-foot
                    achromatic telescope." While the glasses were on the way he procured a zinc tube, made
                    larger at one end than at the other, in which he placed his treasure upon its arrival, and although
                    it was snowing he soon had the satisfaction of testing the quality of the glass and his workmanship
                    upon surrounding objects which he could see distinctly a mile or more away. He succeeded in mounting
                    his telescope satisfactorily, and in a manner that admitted of its being turned in any direction. He
                    said much study and work were done before all this was completed, and considerable shoemaking had to
                    be done, too. But it was highly gratifying to set the telescope in range with a star and then see a
                    large "diamond in the sky" at noonday.
            
            The late Rev. Myron Reed once said: "I believe in endowing individual genius instead of
                    colleges. There are many people in the world who are gifted with a special talent for helpfulness to
                    society. William Dawson, of 
                        Spiceland
                    , Ind., has a genius for astronomy. By the closest economy he succeeded in securing a
                    telescope, and by persistent study he has become familiar with many astronomical phenomena. But
                    while he was up in his observatory with his pet instrument, earnestly plying the heavens with
                    questions, he was liable to be called down at any moment to the prosaic work of cobbling a pair of
                    shoes."
            William Dawson was one of the most conscientious of men in his dealings with his fellow men, and
                    painstaking to the last degree in his astronomical calculations. So accurate was he in his work that
                    persons who were acquainted with hip were sure that any statement given out by him had been
                    sufficiently verified to make it safe to accept it. Prof. Edward Holden, of the Lick observatory,
                    said to a young lady from 
                        Spiceland
                     who visited the observatory on Mt. Hamilton, that if William Dawson said a thing was so
                    they immediately accepted it as the truth, such confidence had they in his ability and accuracy. He
                    was much interested in the contest between astronomy and religion. He did not want to detract one
                    iota from the great benefits of the church in all ages, but he frequently pointed out, in articles
                    written for publication, the persecutions which the sciences of geography and astronomy have
                    endured. "But now," he wrote, "this warfare on science is happily passing
                    away, and we of this age partake of the sweets of science without knowing the true source of our
                    joy."
            His contributions to the press were many and varied, touching upon almost every phase of astronomical
                    phenomena. In the American Meteorological Journal for 1884 was printed a series of
                    articles containing tables of barometric observations for the period of time between 1861 and 1584.
                    The 
                        Kansas City
                    
                    Review of Science and Industry for August, 1883, contains the eclipses from 1800
                    to 1900, as calculated by Mr. Dawson. He wrote frequently for the Indianapolis
                    Journal for a period of years; occasionally for some Eastern papers, and also for some of the
                    county papers.
            
            Besides being practical, he saw the beauty of the relation of the heavenly bodies to each other and
                    to the needs of humanity, and could express this relation in beautiful language. In an article about
                    the moon, he wrote, "A very moderate telescope, two or three inches in diameter, will show
                    two or three hundred lunar mountains and craters which are located and named on maps, and of course
                    may be learned. But the view as presented through a good telescope four or five inches in diameter
                    is one of splendor, in which we contemplate thousands of mountains, valleys, shadows, etc., wherein
                    we are soon lost in wonders."
            Writing of the star-groups, giving their relative size, position, and time of rising and setting, he
                    said, "Let us now for a moment transport our minds back to the first week of creation. On
                    the sixth day of that week, old father Adam was probably the first mortal to behold the setting sun.
                    We wonder what he thought, or how he felt, as the orb of day neared the western horizon, descending
                    the more rapidly the nearer it approached the surface of the earth, and still waning as it crossed
                    the line of sight. Soon it was gone and the shadows of evening soon enveloped the first inhabitant
                    of earth. Did he think the sun would rise again? and when or where? But now perhaps the crescent
                    moon was observed wending its way to the place where the sun was last. It went down also. Soon the
                    evening star was there and greeted the wondering eyes of the beholder. And as day departed and night
                    came on, the little gems of stars burst forth from out the blue vault of heaven. Doubtless a
                    constellation was observed in the west, a little way above the horizon and another as far above the
                    eastern horizon. An hour of time quietly passes by and one of the star-groups is hid beyond the
                    western slope of the earth, while the one in the east is fifteen degrees higher than it was an hour
                    before. Now these very sights have been repeated ten thousand times since creation's dawn;
                    and they are presented to our gaze."
            In 1878 he built a new residence, and on the second story of this house he constructed a dome about
                    twelve feet in diameter, from his own plans, in which he mounted his telescope. This dome was made
                    to revolve so that by a slight push of the hand the telescope could be turned upon any part of the
                    heavens.
            
            William Dawson was an interesting talker, especially when conversing upon the subject of astronomy.
                    Many a student of 
                        Spiceland
                     Academy has taken advantage of his obliging disposition, and while waiting for him to
                    mend a shoe, plied him with questions about the sun, moon and stars, or some kindred topic, and felt
                    much ahead of his classmates who were so unlucky as to have no need of the services of the cobbler.
            He was the first astronomer, so far as I have been able to learn, who discovered the periodic
                    recurrence of sun-spots. He began his observations of the sun in March, 1867, and for several days
                    saw no spots, and but few were seen until about the middle of September when a group of fifteen
                    appeared near the sun's center. From this time the number and size of the spots increased
                    up to August, 1872. He generally used a magnifying power of one hundred diameters and on one
                    occasion, in the month of August, 1872, saw 640 sun-spots; changing to a two hundred eyepiece he
                    counted the astonishing number of 950 spots. But a change soon followed this display. The number
                    gradually grew less and the spots smaller until during 1878, when often none were seen for days.
                    This was near the end of recurrence, which is eleven years. The size of these spots vary much, but
                    to be seen as a mere speck they must have a diameter of four or five hundred miles. The largest one
                    seen by him he calculated to be 30,000 miles long and 12,000 miles wide.*
            
            In 1888 he spent the summer in 
                        Kansas
                    , hoping that a change of climate would benefit his health which had not been good for
                    several years. He seemed to improve while there but did not long hold what he had gained. He
                    continued to decline in health until the summer of 1890, when he became so feeble that he was no
                    longer able to go up stairs to his observatory, but as long as he was able he assisted in making up
                    the records of the weather. He passed from earth on the 12th of August, 1890, leaving the world, and
                    especially the astronomic world, richer for his having lived in it.
            
               
                  * The periodicity of the sun-spots was observed earlier by
                        Schwa be, a German astronomer, and by Wolf, of Zürich. Tile latter is ordinarily
                        credited with the discovery of the general lam of the recurrences, which he traced back to the
                        time of Galileo. Watson's work seems, however, to have been entirely original and
                        independent of these other observations and researches.—Editor.
            
         
         
         
            OLD INDIANAPOLIS LETTER.
            [To Mr. Arthur Osborn, of 
                        Spiceland
                    , we are indebted for the following copy of an old family letter to his brother John,
                    then of 
                        Ohio
                    , but who later lived and died in Economy, 
                        Wayne county
                    , Indiana, which town their father, Charles Osborn, laid out. This letter is written on
                    a sheet of paper folded in such a way that the sheet made the envelope as well as a place on which
                    to write. It was sealed with a wafer, and the cost of carriage (18 3/4 c) was paid a; the receiving
                    office.]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              PRINTING OFFICE, INDIANAPOLIS, CENTER TOWNSHIP,
                              MARION COUNTY, INDIANA,
                           
                                    FIRST DAY 13th OF 1st
                                            MONTH, 1828.
                                
                        I YESTERDAY received thy letter of 12th Mo. 9th, which had been detained by high
                                    water till this time. The land in 
                                        Wayne county
                                     is to be had on good terms generally. The National Road goes through 
                                        Richmond
                                    , 
                                        Centervilie
                                    , this place and 
                                        Terre Haute
                                    , on the 
                                        Wabash
                                    , strait from point to point. It is seventy-one miles to the 
                                        Ohio
                                     line, seventy-five to 
                                        Terre Haute
                                    . This town is situated on the east side of White
                                    river in a high, dry bottom, the court house three-fourths of a mile from
                                    the river. The place begins to look like a town. There are about a thousand acres
                                    cut smooth, ten stores, six taverns! a court house which cost $15,000,
                                    many fine houses, and six weeks back had in it 1,066 inhabitants, lots worth
                                    $100 and the place somewhat sickly but improving. A few Friends in the
                                    county, two families in town; eleven miles to Monthly meeting. I have not been to
                                    Friends' meeting since Yearly meeting.
                        The Legislature has been six weeks in session here; it expects to adjourn in one
                                    more. Bill Elliot is a member. I work by the piece; make from three to four dollars
                                    a week clear. I could get work all next summer, but I do not want it here. I shall
                                    quit in the spring, go to 
                                        Wayne
                                     perhaps, work on my land or teach a school, and I have promised to go
                                    to father's to see them in the spring, or I will go into business in 
                                        Richmond
                                     in the office if terms will suit. I can best tell when the time comes.
                        Myself—I dress fashionable, wear a white hat, blue cloth coat with metal
                                    buttons, and other garments as may best suit the time or my circumstances. I am out
                                    of debt, and have Benjamin Lundie's and Thomas Hoge's notes to the
                                    amount of $130  which I never expect
                                    to get, and I have about thirty dollars' worth of property in 
                                        Wayne county
                                    , besides my clothes, and eighty acres of land adjoining E. Swain, Jr.,
                                    on one side and E. Swain, Sr., on the other, for which I have the certificate of
                                    purchase (though I had like to have lost it this way. I sent $100 
                                        United States
                                     paper to 
                                        Cincinnati
                                     by a man to purchase it. He went to the office and made the purchase in
                                    the day, and at night was at the auction sale where a pickpocket crowded in and got
                                    the pocketbook out of his pocket, containing four dollars in money and all his
                                    papers, my certificate with the rest. But he went to the office again, made oath to
                                    it and got another, providing that the last one shall draw the patent.)
                        (Signed) ISAIAH OSBORN
                           . 
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
            THE WORK FAMILY.
            
               
                  
                            Jeffersonville
                         Evening News, September 4, 1905.
            THE following communication received from Mrs. Sallie Work Culp, a descendant of the John Work who
                    built the famous Tunnel Mill near 
                        Charlestown
                    , speaks for itself and corrects some inaccuracies in a former account in the News and Democrat which was written in view of the approaching Work celebration
                    which will be held at the Old Settlers' meeting this week. Mrs. Culp writes as follows from
                            
                  Collins, Mo.
               :
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Your paper of August 11 contained an article about the builder of Tunnel Mills near 
                                        Charlestown
                                    , Ind. Some inaccuracies occurred in the issue. Since leaving the State
                                    in 1871 the writer has several times been tempted to take a pen in defense of a
                                    worthy grandfather who has been brought before the public in recent years under so
                                    many different names. If you will publish this account you will confer favor and
                                    assist in setting the matter at rest.
                        The records of the county show in whom the title to Tunnel Mills land was vested.
                                    John Work, builder of those mills—son of John Work and Anna Reid
                                    Work—was born in 
                                        Lancaster county
                                    , 
                                        Pennsylvania
                                    , December 9, 1760. He married Sarah Jackson, of Uniontown, 
                                        Penn.
                                    , 1786. He bought and settled on a large tract  of land lying along Fourteen Mile creek, Indiana, more
                                    than one hundred years ago. Shortly afterward he found it necessary to build a fort
                                    for protection from the Indians, into which the few settlers of the country often
                                    rushed in time of danger, spending one entire year there, tending a crop in common
                                    on lands adjacent to the fort. The writer has often listened with keen interest to
                                    stirring accounts of those days. A portion of the wall of the fort was still visible
                                    in 1887, and no doubt is to-day.
                        The industries established by John Work were many—three grain mills,
                                    several sawmills, salt works, general store, etc. His first mill stood near where
                                    was afterward placed the family burying ground, but wishing for greater power he
                                    conceived the idea of carrying the water through the hill, thus securing the desired
                                    fall. Accordingly he pierced a hill of solid rock, placing two men at each end, the
                                    space being too narrow for more with the clumsy tools of that day. His perfect
                                    knowledge of surveying enabled him to direct the course himself.
                        Following is the modest account of that work copied from the diary of said John Work:
                                    "Commenced blasting through the hill January 14, 1814. Completed same April
                                    14, 1516. Blasting done by Samuel Rose. Cost of said tunnel, $3,333.33
                                    1/3," which is equal to $20,000 to-day. He was a man of sterling
                                    integrity and died in 1830. His body lies under the large square tomb at his old
                                    home.
                        John Work had four daughters and two sons. His daughters were Mrs. Rebecca Faris,
                                    Mrs. Elizabeth Hutchings, Mrs. Anna Reid and Mrs. Sarah Shannon. His sons were
                                    Robert and John. Robert died in early manhood; John succeeded to the property. The
                                    latter was the father of William Work, for many years connected with the 
                                        Jeffersonville
                                     penitentiary, who died at 
                              Bedford, Ark.
                           ;
                                    Robert Work, who died near the old home; John Work, a newspaper man, who died at
                                            
                              Central City, Col.
                           , and Sallie Work, who married William
                                    Culp (now a retired lumber merchant), at 
                              Collins, Mo.
                           
                                    William Work left two children, Mrs. Sunshine Warren, of 
                                        Sedalia
                                        Mo.
                                    , and Dick Work, sporting editor of the 
                              
                                            St. Louis
                                         World, of 
                                        St. Louis
                                    . Dick Work is the only male descendant of the builder of the Tunnel
                                    Mills now living who bears the family name.
                        
                                    MRS. SALLIE WORK
                                            CULP.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            NATURAL GAS IN INDIANA.
            AN EXPLOITED RESOURCE.
            
               MARGARET WYNN.
            [A paper prepared for a history seminar in Butler College, June, 1906.]
            NATURAL gas was used in the 
                        United States
                     as early as 1821. In that year the little town of Fredonia, in 
                        New York
                    , used it for illuminating. In 1841 the gas was utilized at the salt wells of the
                        Kenawha valley, 
                        West Virginia
                    . The rudest system was put in and the gas was employed only in boiling brine. About two
                    years later, in 1843, the people evidently awoke to the advantages of gas as a fuel, for they put
                    down a one-thousand-foot well which produced high-pressure gas—the first of its kind on
                    record.
            At least two instances are known of gas being discovered comparatively early in Indiana. The first
                    mention is that of a well at 
                        Francisville
                    , in 
                        Pulaski county
                    , put down during the oil excitement of 1865. The drillers failed to find oil and were
                    bothered by a considerable flow of highly inflammable gas. As the uses of gas were not then known,
                    the well was abandoned and continued to flow gas and water till 1888, when it was plugged. The Eaton
                    well, bored in 1876, at a depth of six hundred feet yielded a flame two feet high. As the company
                    was exploring for coal, and gas was not supposed to have any value, no attention was paid to it.
                    Some years later, after the discovery at 
                        Findlay
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , the people became interested, remembering the incident of the coal explorers. The well
                    was drilled deeper and at nine hundred and twenty-two feet gas came. The discovery occasioned no
                    little excitement. The well was fitted with four pipes, two on each end of a T. A flame about ten
                    feet high arose from each. The light was seen from 
                        Muncie
                    , twelve miles south. It was said that the heat could be felt sixty feet away. The odor
                    of the gas was reported as not unpleasant. The same report concluded by announcing that
                    "the work of laying mains and fitting houses will soon be commenced and this  enormous waste be utilized. One fact this well bas settled, at least,
                    namely, that the 
                        Ohio
                     gas field reaches into Indiana." The last statement proved wrong, for there
                    was a strip of counties along the eastern boundary of the State that proved barren.
            Three great gas fields were developed in the 
                        United States
                     before the close of the last century. The first, that of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , dates from the beginning of oil drilling in 1839. At first the gas from the oil wells
                    was allowed to escape, since it was considered of no value. Later it was piped to a safe distance
                    and burned. It was not till about 1880 that it was used extensively as a fuel. In 1883 it was piped
                    to 
                        Pittsburg
                    .
            In 1884 gas was discovered at 
                        Findlay
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    . The pressure was very strong; the supply appeared inexhaustible. Manufacturers flocked
                    to the field. The wildest excitement prevailed. Industries grew apace. Men grew wealthy. Cities grew
                    from tiny villages. Then the gas began to fail. Owners of factories looked about for new sites.
            Just at this time gas in Indiana became assured. In the report of the State Geologist for 1881, is
                    recorded an account of a well in 
                        Fountain county
                     which aroused the first serious interest in Indiana natural gas. "In May a
                    boring was made for water. At something over a hundred feet a strong flow of inflammable gas took
                    place, which continued up to the time of this report, November 10. The gas burned with a pale yellow
                    flame and intense heat, and has no odor either in burning or before. It is evidently carbide of
                    hydrogen or the fire damp of the miners. So far as we know it is a rare occurrence, and may be
                    economized for lighting and heating purposes." By 1883 a number of wells had yielded a flow
                    of gas which was utilized in a small way for concentrating brine and driving engines, as well as for
                    illuminating purposes. The first high-pressure flaw was discovered at 
                        Portland
                    , in 
                        Jay county
                    , March 14, 1886. In the following September the 
                        Kokomo
                     Natural Gas and Oil Company began drilling. After thirty-one days of drilling, gas was
                    struck one evening after eight o'clock. They continued drilling. The news spread rapidly.
                    In the wildest excitement people rushed to see the wonder. By noon of the next day the pressure was
                    strong enough to hurl bits of pebbles and rock high in the air. Then there was an explosion. The
                    drill crashed to the bottom of the  well, crushing the thin shell
                    floor. The puncture resulted in a rush of artesian water which did not affect the gas. At the time
                    of the report, a month after the blowing of the well, the company was using the gas under its
                    boilers, the city of 
                        Kokomo
                     was laying mains and many residences were being fitted for gas. An item in the 
                  
                            Kokomo
                         Dispatch says: "Three stoves and a grate, furnished with gas, have
                    been on exhibition in the store of the Armstrong-Landon Company the past week. The temperature is
                    unvarying. A genial warmth pervades the remotest corners of the vast room, while the entire absence
                    of smoke, dirt and ashes is favorably commented on. Four companies for laying mains are already
                    organized and many are prospective." Late in the same fall, 1886, several strong wells were
                    bored at 
                        Muncie
                    . Immediately mains were laid and citizens were urged to use gas, since, the company
                    said, "by a simple, cheap arrangement in the shape of a burner, any heating or cooking
                    stove can be adapted to its use."
            In less than two years the Indiana gas field was in its prime. Seventeen counties in the northeastern
                    part of the State, comprising five thousand square miles, produced gas in commercial quantities.
                    Speculation ran rife; real estate in the favored district jumped to unreasonable figures; new gas
                    companies were organized every day; wells were put down by the dozen. Cities and towns were piped
                    for the fuel. The failure of gas in 
                        Ohio
                     caused the manufacturers to look for a new site. They began to flock to Indiana. They
                    passed into towns whose streets were arched with hundreds of gas torches to welcome the new
                    capitalists. Up till then this had been a region of farms and small towns; it now became the seat of
                    prosperous cities. Wealth increased with astonishing rapidity. The gas belt was entering the era of
                    its greatest prosperity.
            The gas field of Indiana was much larger than that of any other gas-producing- State. The field in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     comprised only a few hundred square miles. A further advantage that the Indiana field
                    possessed was that it was practically continuous. Wherever the drill penetrated into 
                        Trenton
                     rock within the limits a flow of gas in paying quantities was expected. The field was
                    divided into three zones. The outer one, comparatively narrow, produced the weakest flow. The next
                         zone produced stronger. The center of the field, about 
                        Madison county
                    , was surrounded by the strongest district. When gas began to fail, ten or twelve years
                    after its discovery, the field narrowed down to some 2,500 square miles, centering around 
                        Madison county
                    . Even this area was many times that of any other gas belt known. It was larger than the
                    fields of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     put together.
            In the early days of natural gas much time and money were spent boring wells in parts of the State
                    which proved barren. 
                        Trenton
                     limestone is a universal formation over the State. Gas is always found in 
                        Trenton
                     limestone, but it was found that in the 
                        Trenton
                     rock certain textural and structural conditions were necessary to the storage of gas in
                    sufficiently large quantities to give a flow. I quote from the report of State Gas Inspector Leach:
                    "Trenton limestone is seldom a gas rock below sixty feet from the upper surface, the
                    gas-producing stratum ranging from five to twenty feet in thickness. Observations and analyses of
                    this rock show that its productiveness is due to its porosity. Whenever the 
                        Trenton
                     limestone is a gas or oil rock, it is highly crystalline and of a sufficient porosity
                    to contain large quantities of these hydro-carbons. * * * Outside
                    this area conditions are different. There the limestone is nearly pure and non-porous."
                    Thus the presence of gas depends on a structural change in the rock. When, by a geological change,
                    the stone has become magnesiated, the result is a porosity, offering storage for gas or oil. It is a
                    question whether new fields may not be discovered in the future when this change takes place
                    elsewhere. As a matter of fact, in most of the small gas fields in other States, notably 
                        Texas
                     and 
                        California
                    , the gas-producing stratum proves to be sandstone similar to that of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . Indiana and 
                        Ohio
                     are the only gas-producing States where 
                        Trenton
                     limestone is a universal formation. In either case the flow of gas varies according to
                    the thickness of the gas-producing stratum. In Indiana the dolometized 
                        Trenton
                     limestone layer varies from five to twenty feet in thickness. The flow also depends on
                    the degree of porosity.
            Even if the necessary condition of porosity is fulfilled, if the stratum is much below sea level the
                    gas is crowded out by salt water. This always proves true of strata more than one hundred  feet below sea level. Gas seeks the highest possible level, therefore
                    the highest stratum contains most gas. In Indiana the highest point in the gas-bearing stratum is at 
                        Muncie
                    , where it is sixty-five to seventy-five feet above tide, and the lowest at 
                        Kokomo
                    , where it is eighty and ninety feet below.
            The effect of natural gas on the economic development of the State was remarkable. In 1886, when gas
                    was discovered, the gas belt was an agricultural district. Besides the customary flouring and
                    sawmills, the factories were few and confined almost exclusively to the making of wooden wares.
                    Indeed, the southern portion of the State had a greater proportion of factories than the northern.
                    Soon, however, all classes of industries were represented. Most of the factories are well built,
                    employing from three hundred to one thousand men. About the time the gas was beginning to fail in 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Pennsylvania
                     it was discovered in Indiana. The field was vast in extent, the supply strong.
                    Capitalists were glad to move their interests to the new field. The loss of these factories to 
                        Ohio
                     was great and in some cases a crisis resulted. By 1893 over $300,000,000 had
                    been invested in factories in Indiana, and more were constantly being erected. It was estimated that
                    at that time not less than three hundred factories had been located and put in operation as a direct
                    result of the development of natural gas. Many of them were very large, as the DePauw Plate-Glass
                    Works at 
                        Alexandria
                    , the largest of its kind in the world. In 1880 there were seven States manufacturing
                    more glass than Indiana. In 1890 only three States stood above ours in this product. The value of
                    glass products in 1880 was $790,781. In 1892 it had risen to $2,995,409.
            The rapid increase of industry is shown by a few values taken from the reports of iron, steel and
                    glass products: In 1880 the four glass factories of the State were valued at $1,442,000,
                    and employed 862 men. In 1890 there were twenty-one glass factories valued at $3,556,563
                    and employing 3,089 men. The industry, in ten years, had nearly tripled in value, while the number
                    of men employed was multiplied more than three and one-half. In the iron and steel industry there
                    were in 1880 nine factories with a value of $1,820,000, employing 1,740 men. In 1890 the
                    number of factories had increased to thirteen, the value  to
                    $3,888,254. Two thousand six hundred and forty-four men received annual wages of
                    $1,215,702. From 1890 to 1895 the growth was still more rapid. January 1, 1895, the
                    number of glass factories was fifty instead of twenty-one. They were valued at over
                    $5,000,000, and employed 7,000 men with an annual wage of $3,000,000.
            As late as 1895, in spite of the fact that the gas was beginning to diminish, companies constructed
                    new pipe-lines and reinforced field pressure with compressing pumps. Factories continued to locate
                    in the gas belt. Gas was especially valuable as a fuel in working upon glass, iron and steel, which
                    require an even, intense heat. But though the fuel was the chief attraction which drew the factories
                    to the State, there proved to be other advantages here. Proximity to the markets of the country and
                    the splendid railroad facilities of the section make it one of the finest manufacturing centers of
                    the country. The fact that the Indiana coal field is conveniently close to the gas belt, and the
                    number of railroads connecting the two made it very easy to change from gas to coal. As early as
                    1891 several of the big factories used coal in times of low pressure. No new gas fields of
                    importance opened up during the decline of the Indiana fields. Many of the manufacturers who had
                    come on account of the gas preferred to use other fuel where they were rather than seek a new
                    location. As a matter of fact, very few factories left the State when gas failed, and those which
                    did were the smaller and less valuable plants. Practically no factories now depend on gas for a
                    fuel. Therefore one may say that the great value brought to the State by gas remains after the gas
                    itself is, commercially, a thing of the past.*
            
            How much the development of natural gas added to the permanent wealth of the State is difficult to
                    ascertain In 1896. ten years after the discovery of gas, the wells, pipe-lines, pumping stations,
                    etc., of natural gas companies were assessed for taxation at nearly $5,500,000. The
                    factory property alone brought in by gas was worth $6,000,000. Since 
                        Madison county
                     was the 
                  
                     * The fact that more factories did not leave Indiana when
                            the gas which had attracted them here gave out, was also probably due in part to the general
                            prosperity and heavy demand for their products during the years that the gas vas giving out.
                            This both made it possible for them to continue on the basis of a new and more expensive
                            fuel, and at the same time added to the loss involved by moving.—Editor.
               
                     center of the gas area, a few statistics from its records will
                    show the general increase of wealth. In 1887 the total assessed valuation of 
                        Madison county
                     was $9,837,595, with a tax levy of $168,339. In 1895 the total
                    value had increased to $26,994,775, with a tax of $397,569. This shows a total
                    increase of wealth in eight years of $17,157,180, or, exclusive of gas property or
                    factories, $13,917,180. The total value of taxable property in 
                        Delaware county
                     in 1886 was $9,590,185. In 1899 it was $21,632,900. Taxes were
                    levied in 
                        Grant county
                     in 1886 on a valuation of $8,921,445. In 1899 this had risen to
                    $23,000,000.
            As an estimate of the cash value of natural gas itself, as a fuel, in the whole 
                        United States
                     during the seven years when the Indiana field was at its best, I give the following
                    table taken from "Mineral Resources of the 
                        United States
                    ," a volume published by the government in 1893. The basis of valuation is the
                    amount of fuel displaced. Since the table begins with the years when gas in 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Pennsylvania
                     was on the decline, and gas in Indiana was being developed, the increase shown is
                    almost wholly to be attributed to Indiana:
            
               
                  1886
                  1887
                  1888
                  1889
               
               
                  $300,000
                  $600,000
                  $1,320,000
                  $2,075,702
               
               
                  1890
                  1891
                  1892
                  1893
               
               
                  $2,302,500
                  $3,942,500
                  $4,716,000
                  $5,718,000
               
            
            This shows an increase in value of $5,418,000 in seven years.
            Very early in the history of the field pipe-lines were laid to conduct gas to cities outside of the
                    gas district. Early in 1888 a notice in the Indianapolis Sun announced that the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Gas Company was ready to supply citizens with natural gas, mains having been laid in 
                        Washington
                     street, 
                        Alabama
                     street, Capitol avenue and 
                        Maryland
                     street. Although a slight flow of gas was struck at Broad Ripple, the extreme edge of
                    the gas field passes through the northeast corner of 
                        Marion county
                    , consequently the city received her gas supply from the 
                        Muncie
                     field. Perhaps the most important development in this direction was the establishment
                    of pipe-lines from the Indiana gas fields to 
                        Chicago
                    . In the last days of natural gas this absorbed a large part of the product of whole
                    districts and give rise to interesting  legal questions, decided
                    for the most part in favor of the companies controlling the lines.
            The most salient feature of the history of natural gas in Indiana, however, is not the wealth that
                    was obtained through its utilization, but the enormous waste which attended its discovery and its
                    use. Exploitation of natural resources, such as this, means the impoverishment of these resources.
                    If in the process they are fully utilized, so that an equivalent in wealth and comfort is returned
                    to the people in possession, there can be no cause for regret. But in this instance such was not the
                    case. An appallingly large amount of the gas taken out of the earth was utterly wasted, so that the
                    State of Indiana to-day has not secured a gain at all commensurate with the value of the natural
                    resource which has been destroyed forever.
            When gas was discovered only a certain amount existed in the reservoirs of gas- and oil-bearing
                    rocks. The generation of these products, at least in paying quantities, had been the work of ages.
                    Even the most careful use of gas for the purposes to which it was applied would probably have
                    exhausted the supply within an ordinary lifetime. But the end was hastened by the reckless
                    extravagance and waste. In the first few years of gas development it was shown that over 100,000,000
                    cubic feet of the valuable fuel was wasted daily. Even at the low prices that obtained at this time
                    this waste would amount to millions upon millions of dollars annually. All of this waste was the
                    more reprehensible in that when gas was discovered in Indiana there had already been two great gas
                    belts which had been developed and had failed. In view of this fact, the fatuity of those who
                    thought that the gas supply was illimitable, and of those who wasted it or thought it of no value,
                    is hard to understand.
            The chief items of waste were carelessness or in competency at the wells, wasteful methods of burning
                    gas in the open, extravagant use of gas for domestic purposes due to the general prevalence of the
                    contract instead of the meter system, and the failure of the State government to prevent abuses in
                    the gas business. In the beginning, much of the waste was due to ignorance of methods of handling
                    gas. When a well was blown the men were slow to cap it and many thousands of dollars' worth
                    escaped  before the flow was confined. Moreover, wells were
                    occasionally allowed to flow continuously as an advertisement. For the first three or four years an
                    average day's flow from a strong well was worth nearly $600. As early as 1888 it
                    developed that the pressure was slowly diminishing. However, it was not at a rapid enough rate to
                    produce immediate alarm. Extravagance and waste continued. In 1889 the average daily waste from
                    uncapped wells alone was estimated to be 10,000,000 cubic feet.
            Later, when oil wells were drilled near the gas field they often showed strong gas pressure as well
                    as oil. If the gas could not be disposed of to some company it was deemed necessary either to allow
                    it to escape or to close the well to protect the gas industry. The latter alternative was seldom
                    taken except under compulsion. The first successful attempt to develop an oil field was near 
                        Alexandria
                    , in 
                        Madison county
                    , the very heart of the gas field. Oil operators flocked to see the
                    "gushers." Excitement ran high. Companies were quickly organized. From April 23,
                    1897, to March, 1898, seventy-five wells were drilled for oil. Of these forty produced both gas and
                    oil, thirty-three gas only, and only three were dry. The waste of gas was enormous. To prevent
                    damage to property the gas was burned for eleven months. They were not prepared to handle gas and
                    enough escaped before they were tubed to supply a large town. The oil field was only a few miles
                    from 
                        Alexandria
                    , and the citizens became alarmed at the gas waste. However, all measures to protect the
                    gas industry at the expense of the oil industry were opposed. In 1598 the Supreme Court decided that
                    the anti-waste law was constitutional and that an individual could stop the waste of gas by
                    injunction. This, in some instances, closed the oil wells and stopped the waste of gas.
            The flambeaux were another occasion of great waste. These open pipes with their great flame of gas
                    shooting out and burning a hundred times as much gas as was necessary to secure the light wanted,
                    were left going continually, not only in towns but in the country, and around gas wells and plants.
                    They consumed, on an average, probably from 150 to 200 cubic feet of gas per hour. No one ever
                    thought of turning them off when not needed. The waste can not be calculated. Farmers objected
                    seriously to giving up the open torch. If they owned their well 
                    they considered the gas their property, or they claimed the privilege of using the gas as they
                    pleased under the terms of their lease.
            Much gas was wasted in domestic consumption through ignorance. Gas, for perfect combustion, requires
                    a mixture of air. Persons, especially in the country, were often found using from three to five
                    pounds pressure, whereas a proper mixer required, at the utmost, five to ten ounces. This resulted
                    in much waste. The gas passed through grates and stoves only partially consumed. From tables given
                    by the State Geologist of 
                        Ohio
                    , it was found that the greater the pressure in any sized mixer the greater number of
                    cubic feet of gas is consumed with the same amount of air. It follows that the higher the pressure
                    the greater the amount of gas passing through the mixer and the more imperfect the combustion. This
                    was not only a waste, but the great quantity of gas allowed to escape unburned, in several instances
                    resulted in suffocation and explosions.
            All over the country the contract system of selling gas prevailed. By this system gas was sold, per
                    store or grate, from 7.5 cents to $1.50 per month, according to size. Bills were paid
                    quarterly or by the month. By this system one man could burn his stove day and night full blast for
                    a month and only pay as much as his neighbor who had been away, leaving the gas turned off. The
                    injustice of the system is apparent. Not until gas began to fail was the meter system introduced.
                    This plan had been advocated by some for a long time, but the people were slow to adopt it, feeling
                    that there was plenty of gas, or that the gas companies would put the meter rate so high that there
                    would be no economy in it for the consumer. The idea of care in preventing waste never presented
                    itself to the mass of consumers till the apparent failure made them apprehensive lest the supply
                    should not last. A company's gas inspector often found gas burning full pressure and the
                    windows up to let out the heat. People turned the gas up to a certain height and left it so
                    indefinitely. It was possible to leave one's home for week at a time, keeping it at
                    practically the same temperature as when occupied.* The cheapness of
                    the fuel caused people to disregard 
                  
                     * Carelessness engendered by this practice, together with a
                            greatly varying and uncertain pressure resulted, in the later days of the use of gas. in
                            great losses by fire. After 1900 scores of houses were burned every year by a strong
                            pressure coming on and overheating a stove or furnace at night or in the absence of the
                                owner.—Editor.
               
                     its value. Often most of the heat went up the chimney through an
                    open damper.
            When the gas began to fail meters were put in at some points, but they were not so generally adopted
                    as materially to check the waste. Many factories, owning their own wells, had used meters some time
                    before the public consented to use them. Factory owners most interested in the supply were most
                    anxious to adopt means to preserve it. But they were not able to effect much.
            The laws of the State sought to regulate the use and prevent the waste of natural gas, and to protect
                    from danger those who used it by making it the duty of the State Gas Supervisor to inspect
                    pipe-lines, regulators, mixers, etc., from time to time. He also was to see that proper precautions
                    were taken to insure the safety of those who used it or who operated wells. Many pipe-lines were
                    condemned and caused to be relaid.
            Perhaps the most interesting law passed by the General Assembly was the Flambeau Act of February 25,
                    1891. This law prohibited the burning of flambeaux or open torches, but allowed gas to be used in
                    jumbo burners (enclosed in glass) which were to be turned off not later than 8 a. m. and lighted not
                    earlier than 5 p. m. Violators were to be fined $25 for first offense and not more than
                    $200 for second offense. This law was called forth by the profligate waste of gas in open
                    torches. Many of the towns were lighted in this way. In several cities, by 1891, city electric
                    lighting plants had been put in, but the gas torches burnt on in the glare of arc lights. On farms,
                    also, gas torches often burned day and night in the farmer's yard or garden. Many of the
                    farmers owned their wells and they resented the laws as curtailing their rights as citizens. They
                    contended that natural gas was property and that they had a right to use it according to their
                    discretion. On the other hand, the State claimed that the welfare and prosperity of the public
                    overshadowed the desires or the good of the individual. Public good demanded that reasonable use
                    only be made of gas. Since economy was necessary, the enforcing of the law to bring this about was
                    only the legitimate exercise of the powers of the State. The question of the constitutionality of
                    the law came up. For four years it was seldom enforced. Then in October, 1895, a  suit came up in 
                        Blackford county
                     which decided the case. The State Supervisor of Gas brought suit to enforce the law. It
                    was carried to the Supreme Court which upheld the constitutionality of the law, and after that there
                    was little trouble in enforcing it.
            A law passed in March, 1891, made it unlawful for any person, in any manner whatever, to change,
                    alter or extend any service-pipe or attachment of any kind, or connection through which natural or
                    artificial gas was furnished from the mains, without permission from the owner. It was unlawful,
                    also, to enlarge the orifice of mixers or to use gas for heating without mixers; for any person,
                    unless employed by the company concerned, to set on fire any gas escaping from wells, broken or
                    leaking mains, or to interfere in any way with appliances.
            This law was necessary for two reasons. The wanton tapping of the Broad Ripple mains, apparently with
                    malicious intent, is an instance of one thing that had to be provided against. It was a very cold
                    period, and before the break could be repaired much suffering from cold was reported. The offenders,
                    in this case, were not found. Again, that part of this act referring to lighting gas escaping from a
                    leak, or broken pipe, was necessary for the safety of the public. Many of the mains in the early
                    history of gas had been carelessly laid by inexperienced workmen. A citizen smelled escaping gas. He
                    took his match and went to hunt for the leak. It was possible that a dangerous and costly explosion
                    would follow. The clause forbidding the enlargement of the orifices of mixers was gravely
                    disregarded as early as 1895. By 1900 it would have been practically impossible to find an unbored
                    mixer in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and other cities.
            The legislature sometimes showed great lack of insight into gas conditions, and passed very faulty
                    laws. Probably the best example of this is the Act of March 4, 1893, regarding the plugging of
                    abandoned wells. This law provided for plugging as follows: "If well has been shot there
                    shall be placed in the bottom of the well a plug of pine wood of a diameter within one-half inch of
                    that of the well; to extend at least three feet above the salt water level. The plug shall be rammed
                    down. After ramming, the hole shall be filled with broken stone or sand and rammed to a point four
                    feet above 
                        Trenton
                     rock. On  top of this shall be placed another plug
                    at least five feet long, which shall also be rammed down. If not shot the well shall be filled with
                    sand, stone or dry cement to a point four feet above the gas-bearing rock. Above this shall be
                    placed a six-foot plug which shall be rammed. The casing of the well shall be removed and a
                    cast-iron ball eight inches in diameter cast in the hole and rammed by the driller, after which not
                    less than ten foot of sand shall be placed on top." Penalty for violation was
                    $200, and $200 for each day of continued violation for ten days. This would
                    seem at first sight an ample enactment, providing in detail an exact method of doing the work which,
                    if followed, would hermetically seal any outlet. Unfortunately, however, it was weak at one
                    point—it did not provide for any witness when the work was being done. When it had been
                    done the expense of ascertaining whether the law had been complied with was prohibitive. As a
                    consequence, in the years between 1895 and 1900, when many wells were abandoned, comparatively few
                    were plugged according to the law.
            Another act of the General Assembly which caused much trouble was that which prohibited the
                    transportation of gas through pipes at more than 300 pounds pressure per square inch; and the use of
                    any device for pumping or any artificial means that should have the effect of increasing the natural
                    flow of the gas from any well or of increasing or maintaining the flow of gas through pipes used for
                    conveying it. At this time a large quantity of gas was piped to 
                        Chicago
                    . (This, by the way, was in violation of a law forbidding the piping of gas to any point
                    without the State. The Supreme Court twice declared this law unconstitutional and it was not
                    enforced.) A test case was made of the Jamison suit against the Indiana Natural Gas Company. A
                    series of tests was made by the State Gas Supervisor who found the pressure in the 
                        Chicago
                     line in no instance to be more than 295 pounds. The Supreme Court held that pressure
                    might be applied, provided it did not exceed 300 pounds per square inch. This decision, though
                    perhaps hastening the failure of gas, lengthened the period of its practical application in industry
                    and domestic consumption several years, for when gas began to fail more rapidly compressing stations
                    were put in to assist the flow.
            
            About 1890 the supply of gas began to go down rapidly. In the hard winter of 1892-'93 the
                    supply fell so far short that much suffering resulted. Manufactories were compelled to shut down on
                    account of deficient gas supply. By 1893 wells were being abandoned every month. In order still to
                    supply their patrons, the gas companies (
                        Chicago
                     monopolized as much territory as possible) drilled wells more and more remote, so that
                    the field was soon developed to the uttermost. By 1893 the field pressure had been reduced from 320
                    to 240 pounds, and pumping stations were being placed at intervals to reinforce pipe-line pressure.
                    In 1894 State Gas Supervisor Jordon strongly recommended that the use of meters be enforced by law.
                    He said the domestic consumption was 50 per cent. greater than necessary. This would be remedied by
                    meter. In the same report he advised the use of some coarser fuel in tile or rolling mills and in
                    the melting furnaces of glass factories.
            Salt water, which is universally present under all gas and oil territory, was the most difficult and
                    dangerous element with which the natural gas industry had to deal. As the gas diminished the salt
                    water horizon rose toward the highest point in the reservoir till it displaced the gas; or, if the
                    draught was great, it rose higher and higher until it sealed what gas was left securely in the
                    rocks. The advance of salt water over the field marked the coming of the end of the gas wells. It
                    appeared first in the early history of the field on the west side and sometimes overcame wells of
                    260 pounds pressure. It advanced slowly but surely, till by 1898-'99 few wells were free
                    from water, In November, 1897, only 50 per cent of the wells in the 
                        Madison county
                     district showed water. In November, 1898, only four out of thirty-six did not show the
                    presence of water. This illustrates the rapid rise of the salt water level when the gas had once
                    begun to fail. Some wells were drowned out and abandoned at 250 pounds pressure. The seriousness of
                    this foe is realized when one finds that at that period a well paid at 90 pounds, yet many had to be
                    abandoned at 175 pounds. Some wells were redeemed by the inserting of pipes of a size small enough
                    to enable the gas to raise the water. The gas and water were then separated automatically. The
                    pressure sank rapidly from the first. The initial rock pressure was 325 pounds. January,  1888, it was reduced to 230; January, 1901, to 115; 1902, to about 80.
            The use of gas had to be gradually abandoned from 1900 on. In the winter of 1905-'06 the
                    supply fell far short at 
                        Muncie
                    , which is nearly in the heart of the district. Three years ago the pipe-lines refused
                    to supply gas longer. The "gas field" or "belt" is now history.
                    Natural gas, though still used in places, as a commercial factor is a thing of the past.
         
         
            INDIAN LANGUAGES.
            THE resolution passed at the last meeting of the Indiana Historical Society, given below, should
                    receive the support of all who are interested in the history of the former Northwestern Territory.
                    Mr. Jacob P. Dunn has collected much information about the meaning of Indian names 2nd has urged for
                    some time that concerted action be taken for the preservation of the knowledge still remaining in
                    this interesting field. It is to be hoped that through the national Bureau of Ethnology a larger
                    work than it is possible for individuals to do may be brought about.
            The resolution referred to is as follows:
            Whereas, The Indian tribes that formerly inhabited the Ohio Valley have been
                    widely scattered, and there is danger that their languages may be lost through the younger
                    generation's adopting the English language, and,
            Whereas, There is no adequate source of information now available in print even as to the meaning of
                    the names of lakes and streams left to us by the Miamis, Pottawattamies, Shawnees and other tribes,
            
               Resolved, That the national Bureau of Ethnology be requested to collect and publish
                    such information as to these languages as can now be obtained, and especially that of the great
                    Miami nation, including the Weas, Piankeshaws, Peorias, Kaskaskias and other tribes who occupied the
                    greater part of Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    ;
            
               Resolved, That our Senators and Representatives in Congress be requested to use
                    their influence to secure this result, and to  obtain
                    appropriations for the expense thereof, if such appropriations are needed;
            
               Resolved, further, That these resolutions be communicated to the other historical
                    societies of the States formed from the Northwestern Territory, with a request that they take a
                    similar action.
         
         
            AN EARLY TRADES UNION.
            AT a meeting of the majority of the Tailors of the Burrough of 
                        Vincennes
                    , held in the shop of Jacob Shull & Francis Cross, on the 18th day of May, 1816,
                    for the purpose of establishing a regular price for work done in their line of business in the
                    future; and after some deliberation established the following prices, to-wit:
            
               
                  For making—
                  Dol. Cts.
               
               
                  A gentleman's great coat
                  6
               
               
                  A cloak
                  3
               
               
                  A gentleman's dress coat
                  5
               
               
                  A frock coat
                  5
               
               
                  A surtout
                  5 50
               
               
                  A waistcoat
                  2
               
               
                  Pantaloons
                  2
               
               
                  Hussars
                  2 75
               
               
                  Sharrivallies
                  3 50
               
               
                  Short Breeches
                  2 50
               
               
                  Round-about
                  2 50
               
               
                  Dragoon's coat
                  5
               
            
            Summer Clothing.—Gingham or Cotton, for making coat, $4.50. Flannel flips on
                    foxing pantaloons, $1. Lady's coat, from four dollars to six dollars and fifty
                    cents.
            Minor's Clothing.—Over ten and under 16 years of age, half price.
            For cutting out a coat, $1. Pantaloons or vests, 37½c.
            H. RUBLE
            
            HUGH KELLY
            
            JACOB QCHULL
            
            FRANCIS CROSS.
            May 23, 1816.
         
         
         
            EDITORIAL.
            Mr. George S. Cottman, after carrying on for three years almost unaided the work and the
                    responsibility necessary in starting and maintaining the Indiana Quarterly Magazine of History, has
                    been compelled this month on account of absence from the State to turn the magazine over to other
                    hands. The present number, however, has been gotten out almost entirely by him and from material
                    which he had collected. It was felt by members of the Indiana Historical Society that the magazine
                    which Mr. Cottman had started was of too great importance and that the momentum which it had
                    accumulated through his efforts was too hardly won to be lost through his absence. With this
                    support, and at the request of Mr. Cottman, the present editor hag undertaken the task of editing
                    the magazine for the current year. He bespeaks the cooperation of all who are interested in Indiana
                    and local history. All communications should be addressed to the Indiana Quarterly Magazine of
                    History, Indiana State Library, 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            The American Historical Association will hold its so-called "western" annual
                    meeting in the last days of December, 1910. The annual meeting is held west of the
                        Alleghany mountains Once every three years, the last one having been at
                            
                  Madison, Wis.
               , December 27–31, 1907. A movement has been started to
                    secure the next western meeting for 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Invitations have been extended by the Historical Section of the State
                    Teachers' Association, the Indiana Historical Society and the Commercial Club of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Other organizations will undoubtedly join in the movement. The executive committee of
                    the American Historical Society decides upon the place of this meeting before the next annual
                    meeting of the Association at 
                        Richmond
                    , December  27, 1908. It is desirable that as many
                    Indiana organizations and societies as possible join in the invitation before that time.
            The advantages that would accrue to Indiana, in the impetus toward historical study, from the
                    presence in the capital city of several hundred persons interested in the study and teaching of
                    history, including nearly all the best known historians of the country, need no emphasis. The
                    American Historical Association now has a membership of more than 2,500, and its magazine,
                    "The American Historical Review," is universally recognized as the most important
                    publication of its kind in America. The meeting of this association usually brings with it also the
                    annual meetings of the American Economic and Political Science Association, the American
                    Sociological Society, and the American Association for Labor Legislation. The papers and discussion
                    in all of these organizations engage the ablest men of the country.
            
               
                        Indianapolis
                     has all the necessary facilities for such meetings; accessibility by numerous
                    railroads, hotel and public hall accommodations, and a large constituency interested in the
                    subject-matter of the meetings. There is no reason why we should not have these conventions. To this
                    end it is necessary to have the cooperation of all societies interested, and desirable to have a
                    largely increased membership from Indiana in these national organizations. Inquiries and
                    communications on the subject may be sent to the editor of this magazine.
            CONCERNING THE BELT ROAD.
            The following letter from Mr. W. H. Ragan, of 
                        Washington City
                    , to Mr. George S. Cottman, needs no introduction:
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              "DEPARTMENT 
                                 OF AGRICULTURE,
                              "WASHINGTON, D. C.,
                           
                                    December 30, 1907.
                                
                        "I have been very much interested in reading the December number of your
                                    Magazine of History, for which I sincerely thank you. Early history of railroading
                                    in Indiana, as told by you, is valuable history and should be cherished by all
                                    native Hoosiers, who should feel feel great pride in what the railroads have so well
                                    helped to accomplish.
                        
                        "While at home recently I was impressed with the great results growing out
                                    of the Belt Railway and could only conjecture what might have been had that great
                                    enterprise failed. Certainly much of the through business, especially the shipping
                                    of live stock, would have avoided 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     by finding other routes. I think, in that event, 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     would have been a good and prosperous city, but it must have fallen far
                                    short of its present proportions, and, to a greater or less extent, would the whole
                                    of central Indiana have suffered. One of the most inexplicable things connected with
                                    my public career is that both the 
                                        Marion county
                                     Senators, in the session of 1877, should have bitterly opposed the
                                    legislation that was necessary in the project of its construction.
                        "Speaking of railroads reminds me of a prediction that was made in my
                                    hearing almost a third of a century ago, which is now almost verified. While
                                    traveling in company with the late Charles K. Peddle, then the master machinist of
                                    the Vandalia railroad, and while passing the neglected and unused bed of an old
                                    canal, I asked if the railroad was ever to be superseded by some other and better
                                    method of transit, as the canal had been by the railroad? He said not in its
                                    essential principles—that the plan of the track and of the carriages
                                    moving on the track would never be essentially changed, but the motor was to be
                                    different. I asked in what way, to which he said electricity would supersede steam.
                                    At that time there was not an electric motor other than, possibly, mere toys, in
                                    existence. Now, it would appear that his prediction is almost a reality.
                        "Respectfully, W. H. RAGAN
                           ."
                     
                  
               
                
            Referring to an error inserted by the editor into an old Henry Ward Beecher letter concerning 
                        Indianapolis
                    , which Mr. Ragan had supplied for the last number of this magazine, he says:
            "By the way, I regret that you said in brackets [county fair].* It was a fair held by the Indiana Horticultural Society in October, 1842. The one
                    prize that was awarded was to my father—a set of silver teaspoons, and I have two of
                    them, inscribed ‘Premium 1842. I. H. S.’ (Indiana Horticultural
                    Society)."
            
               
                  * This occurs on page 189 (1907.)—-Editor.
            
            
            WAYNE COUNTY HISTORICAL SOCIETY.
            The regular meeting of this society was held at the 
                        Wayne county
                     court-house in 
                        Richmond
                    , Saturday afternoon, February 29. The purchase of fireproof cases for keeping
                    historical collections, and the receipt of several old papers and other articles from the Starr
                    family were reported. The program included, among other numbers, a short paper upon the history of 
                        New Garden
                     township, written by Francis W. Thomas, and read by Professor Hodgin, "Pioneer
                    Reminiscences," by Hannah Symons, and an account of the "Founding of the School at
                    Economy by a Volunteer Association," contributed by Arthur Osborne, of 
                        Spiceland
                    , and read by Eli Jay. The following officers were elected: President, Professor C. W.
                    Hodgin; secretary, Professor W. O. Wissler; vice-president, B. F. Wissler; treasurer, Harry E.
                    Penny; advisory members, Eli Jay, Prof. Lee Ault, 
                        Cambridge City
                    , and Mrs. Helen V. Austin, 
                        Centerville
                    .
            DECEASED—GENERAL JOHN COBURN.
            
               January 28, 1908.
            General Coburn was, at the time of his death, first vice-president of the Indiana Historical Society.
                    For many years he was active in serving the interests of the study of Indiana history. In the old
                    days when the books and records of the society were carelessly stored in the 
                        Marion county
                     court-house, they were by his personal direction probably saved from destruction and by
                    him put in a safe place of deposit. General Coburn contributed to the publications of the Indiana
                    Historical Society an article in collaboration with Judge Horace P. Biddle upon the "Life
                    and Services of John B. Dillon." He also wrote an article upon the Supreme Court of Indiana
                    for the Bench and Bar.
            General Coburn was a maker of history as well as a student of it. Born in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , October 27, 1825, he was for many years prominent, not only in the city, but in the
                    State at large. He served in the Civil War with distinction. He was Judge of the Circuit Court for 
                        Marion
                     and 
                        Hendricks counties
                     1865–'67, and Representative in Congress from 1867 to 1875. For
                    some time he had been one of the oldest, if not the oldest, resident of 
                        Indianapolis
                     born in the city.
         
         
         
            NOTES.
            THE INDIANA HISTORICAL SOCIETY.
            The annual meeting of the Indiana Historical Society was held at the Union Trust Building in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on the afternoon of Thursday, December 26.
            The president, Judge D. W. Howe, made a detailed statement of the work of the society for the past
                    year.
            The executive committee reported the publication during the year of
            Vol. 4, No. 2. "The Word Hoosier," by Jacob Piatt Dunn.
            Vol. 4, No. 3. "William Henry Harrison's Administration of Indiana
                    Territory," by Prof. Homer J. Webster.
            The treasurer reported —
            
               
                  Funds invested
                  $3,000 00
               
               
                  Cash on hand
                  204 52
               
               
                  Total
                  $3,204 52
               
            
            Charles W. Moores and Eliza G. Browning were appointed a committee on the publication of the names of
                    Revolutionary pensioners who had lived in Indiana.
            New members were elected as follows: Charles Pingpank, Murat H. Hopkins and Augustus L. Mason, all of 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            Also honorary members as follows: Benjamin S. Parker, of 
                        New Castle
                    , and Prof. Homer J. Webster, of 
                  Alliance, Ohio
               .
            A resolution was adopted to invite the American Historical Association to meet in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1910.
            A resolution, printed in full on page 45, urging the collection and publication of information as to
                    the Indian languages formerly spoken in this part of the country was passed and elicited the hearty
                    endorsement of all who discussed it.
            The following officers for the ensuing year were elected: President, Judge D. W. Howe; first
                    vice-president, Gen. John Coburn; second vice-president, Capt. W. E. English; third vice-president,
                    Bishop Denis O'Donaghue; treasurer, Charles E. Coffin; recording secretary, J. P. Dunn;
                    corresponding secretary, George S. Cottman; executive committee, John H. Holliday,  A. C. Harris, Charles W. Moores, Charles Martindale and J. P. Dunn.
            HISTORICAL ADDRESSES.
            Professor H. Morse Stephens, of the University of 
                        California
                    , delivered three lectures in 
                        Indianapolis
                     January 6, 7 and 8, under the auspices of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Public Schools, upon the subjects, "The Romans in Briton; the Value of
                    Historical Fiction in the Teaching of History, as Illustrated in Kipling's Puck of
                    Pook's Hill," "A Change in the Historical Perspective in Modern European
                    History" and "The Napoleonic Period versus the Life of Napoleon; the Modern Point
                    of View."
            Professor Albert Bushnell Hart, of Harvard University, delivered two lectures in 
                        Indianapolis
                     February 5 and 6, upon "The Real South" and "The Historical
                    Geography of the 
                        United States
                    ."
         
         
            BOOK REVIEWS AND NOTICES.
            WILLIAM HENRY HARRISON'S ADMINISTRATION
                    OF INDIANA TERRITORY.
            The Indiana Historical Society has issued as No. 3 of Vol. IV of its publications, "William
                    Henry Harrison's Administration of Indiana Territory," by Prof. Homer J. Webster,
                    of 
                  Alliance, Ohio
               . It covers 120 pages, and is the most complete account of this period
                    in Indiana that has been published. Of course, such a study necessarily includes a large amount of
                    matter that is already accessible elsewhere, though in this case it is somewhat scattered in its
                    other forms; but Professor Webster has done a a large amount of original research and has added
                    materially to the available information on this subject. One of the most interesting of his
                    discoveries is the identity of the writer of the "Letters of Decius," and the
                    history of that celebrated attack on General Harrison, which was the most famous political pamphlet
                    of the Territory. Professor Webster discloses the fact that they were written by Isaac Darneille,
                    and also brings out their satisfactory refutation. The publication is of the same style as the
                    preceding publications of the society, and can be obtained of The Bobbs-Merrill Co.
            JACOB PIATT DUNN.
         
         
         
            "A PIONEER HISTORY OF INDIANA."
            The most noteworthy contribution that has been made to the early history of southern Indiana is a
                    volume of 632 pages, with the above title, the author and publisher of which is Col. William M.
                    Cockrum, of 
                        Oakland City
                    . There have been so many worthless Indiana books of historical pretensions that one
                    takes up a new one in a skeptical and critical spirit. But in the instance under consideration the
                    reader is agreeably surprised, for the amount of matter presented that is new to our records, and
                    that has all the evidences of authenticity, calls for comment.
            Colonel Cockrum, it seems, has been patiently gathering in this material from private sources for
                    fifty years or more, and his harvest is most interesting. There are narrations of adventure with the
                    red man, and pictures of life and manners among the very earliest pioneers, that are among the best
                    accounts of this kind that we have. There are, too, not a few documents that are a real addition to
                    our archives, most notable of these, perhaps, being a series of orders or letters of instruction
                    from Governor William Henry Harrison to William Hargrave, a captain of rangers, in 1807. Those
                    letters are decidedly informative. In the first place, the fact that there was a ranger service
                    guarding our frontier from 
                        Vincennes
                     to 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     as early as 1807, is one of which none of our historians seem heretofore to have been
                    aware. John B. Dillon, our closest student of Indian affairs at that period, makes no mention of it
                    whatever, though he deals somewhat with the similar service that was established after the Pigeon
                    Roost massacre in 1813. Of the letters there are about twenty-five which were found in Captain
                    Hargrave's desk at his death in 1843. They further reveal glimpses of frontier conditions
                    at that time and show as no other records do how, even that early, there was a ferment and a
                    friction which were linked to the pivotal battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     four years later. Moreover, they reflect the characters of both Governor Harrison and
                    Secretary Gibson in a light that a biographer of these men could not afford to miss.
            Lack of space forbids the review that this book should have, and about all that we can attempt here
                    is to convey the impression that it is, as we have said, a distinct addition to our too  meager historical literature, and that it should have a place in every
                    collection of this character. It can be secured for $1.15 by addressing the author, Col.
                    William M. Cockrum, 
                        Oakland City
                    , Ind.
            GEORGE S. COTTMAN.
         
         
            A series of pamphlets entitled Civic Studies of 
                        Indianapolis
                     is announced, to be published by The Bobbs-Merrill Co. under the auspices of the
                    Commercial Club and the School Board of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The first number appeared December, 1907; Pioneer Indianapolis, by Ida Stearns
                    Stickney. It is an excellent sketch with four illustrations, compiled from older works, covering the
                    opening of central Indiana to the whites and the development of 
                        Indianapolis
                     down to about 1847. While intended chiefly for use in the schools, it is interesting
                    and should be of general use as well. A brief index facilitates reference to it. 68 pp.
         
      
   
