
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 79, Issue 1, pages 1-107. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:79+issue:1+year:1983&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            "The Famous Hair Buyer General": Henry Hamilton, George Rogers Clark, and the
                    American Indian
            
                    Bernard W. Sheehan
                    ∗
                
            It would be difficult to find two more dissimilar characters of the revolutionary generation than
                    Henry Hamilton and George Rogers Clark. The Anglo-Irish gentleman and the 
                        Virginia
                     Indian fighter seemed destined to clash when they met on the 
                        Illinois
                     frontier. 
                        Hamilton
                     had already become infamous as the promoter of Indian attacks on the American
                    settlements and the supposed buyer of white scalps. Not even Simon Girty,1 the
                    "white savage," could equal the iniquity that attached to Hamilton's
                    reputation; indeed, not until recent times have historians managed to restore a semblance of balance
                    to the memory of his career in America.2 In contrast, Clark emerged a hero from
                    the Revolution, and his renown has remained high since.
            The issue between 
                        Hamilton
                     and Clark in the 1770s was the American Indian. To be sure, for the outcome of the war
                    and the establishment of independence, both men were minor characters. The conflict in the West
                    gained significance only in hindsight. George Washington won the war east of the mountains,
                    employing an army of conventional design and training, with no more than grudging attention to the
                    unseemly conflict that occupied the frontier regions. The western hostilities were important,
                    however, because they brought into the fray the 
                  
                     ∗ Bernard W. Sheehan is professor of history, Indiana
                            University, 
                                Bloomington
                            . He wishes to thank the Earhart Foundation and Research and Graduate
                            Development, Indiana University, for aid in the preparation of this article.
                  
                     1 See Consul Wilshire Butterfield, History of the
                            Girtys… (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1890).
                  
                     2 John D. Barnhart, "A New Evaluation of Henry Hamilton and
                            George Rogers Clark," 
                        Mississippi Valley
                                Historical Review, XXXVII (March, 1951), 643–52; Nelson Vance Russell,
                            "The Indian Policy of Henry Hamilton: A Revaluation," Canadian Historical Review, XI (March, 1930), 20–37.
               
                     Indian tribes that weighed heavily in the thinking of Americans
                    about themselves. As the behavior of both Hamilton and Clark testifies, Americans and Englishmen
                    were deeply torn over the problem of the Indian. At the same time that they scorned the native way
                    of life as the savage antithesis of civility, they felt strangely attracted to it. In addition, the
                    Americans came to believe that the alliance between the British and the "merciless Indian
                    savages," to use Jefferson's phrasing from the Declaration of Independence, united
                    the foes of liberty with the enemies of civilization. Thus the 
                        Hamilton
                    -Clark conflict touched the deepest strains of American commitment during its
                    revolutionary trial.
            The question of employing the native warriors in the War for Independence arose at the outset of the
                    conflict, but after the emission of much pious rhetoric from both sides most of the Indians joined
                    the crown. At first the Continental Congress seemed inclined to promote Indian neutrality, perhaps
                    on the assumption that the natives were more likely to support the British, but local American
                    commanders had already recruited warriors. Besides, rumor had it that the British ministry had
                    formed a plan to unite the tribes against the rebellion. By 1776, on grounds that their involvement
                    was inevitable, the Congress abandoned attempts to keep the Indians neutral and tried with little
                    success to engage them on the American side. British policy had originally been negative, designed
                    to keep the warriors from joining the Americans, but by 1777 military necessity and the prevalent
                    conviction that the Americans had taken the first steps led to the systematic promotion of Indian
                    attacks on the frontier.3
            
            The piety exuded by both sides over the misbehavior of their enemies in allying themselves with the
                    "savage" Indians was more than partisan propaganda. There had been a long history
                    of native participation in the American extensions of European wars, hence much experience of native
                    warfare. There had been time for the development of deep feelings. In the end, no doubt, most
                    Englishmen and Americans would have agreed that since the Indians would be fighting "for
                    somebody… they may better be fighting for us than against 
                  
                     3 Jack M. Sosin, "The Use of Indians in the War of the
                            American Revolution: A Re-Assessment of Responsibility," Canadian
                                Historical Review, XLVI (June, 1965), 101–21; Jack M. Sosin, The Revolutionary Frontier, 1763–1783 (
                                New York
                            , 1967), 87; Andrew McFarland Davis, "The Employment of Indian
                            Auxiliaries in the American War," English Historical Review, II
                            (October, 1887), 709–28.
               
                    
                    
                  LIEUTENANT-COLONEL HENRY HAMILTON, FROM A MINIATURE IN THE HOUGHTON LIBRARY, HARVARD UNIVERSITY
                  
               
                    
                  GEORGE ROGERS CLARK, FROM A PAINTING BY MATHEW JOUETT, IN POSSESSION OF THE FILSON CLUB OF
                                LOUISVILLE
                  
                  Reproduced from Frederick Palmer, Clark of the 
                                    Ohio
                                : A Life of George Rogers Clark (
                                New York
                            , 1930), frontispiece, facing 318.
               
                     us."4 All agreed, however, that the
                    very presence of the Indians in the conflict tainted the cause of those allied with them and
                    presented the other side with the necessity of fighting for the very survival of civilization.
            
               
                        Hamilton
                     attained his position of ignominy largely because, from 1775 until his capture by Clark
                    at 
                        Vincennes
                     in 1779, he served as lieutenant-governor of the British post at 
                        Detroit
                    . As a consequence, during the early years of the revolutionary struggle he was the
                    principal British agent in contact with the native groupings of the Old Northwest who threatened the 
                        Ohio
                    a nd 
                        Kentucky
                     frontiers. The Indians depended on 
                        Detroit
                     for supplies, and the British after 1777 looked to them as important instruments of
                    royal policy. Unfortunately for the British, and the Americans who suffered as a consequence, the
                    Indians attacked the frontier mainly to defend their way of life rather than to further the
                    interests of King George. They fought, therefore, in their own manner and made it inevitable that
                    Hamilton, who initiated and sustained their efforts for his own purposes, should have been accused
                    of throwing in his lot with the Indians and supporting the continued existence of
                    "savage" ways.
            
               
                        Hamilton
                     had known Indians before the outbreak of the Revolution. He had been born in 
                        Ireland
                    , probably in 1734, of an important provincial family. His grandfather held the title
                    Viscount Boyne in the Irish peerage, and his father, a younger son, sat in the Irish parliament for
                    Donegal and held the collectorships of the ports of 
                        Dublin
                     and Cork. At the age of twenty-one 
                        Hamilton
                     joined an Irish regiment and eventually made a modest career as a colonial
                    administrator, serving in the Northwest, 
                        Canada
                    , 
                        Bermuda
                    , and the Caribbean. He arrived in the New World in 1758 during the Seven
                    Years' War and learned in that conflict about the role of native auxiliaries. His papers
                    testify that he developed a serious interest in the continent and in native culture.5
            
            
               
                        Hamilton
                     showed the influence of the romantic vision of nature prevalent in the late eighteenth
                    century. He had been brought up in County Cork in the midst of a landscape of power 
                  
                     4 Quoted in Sosin, "Use of Indians," 121.
                  
                     5 On Hamilton's early years see Orville John Jaebker,
                            "Henry Hamilton: British Soldier and Colonial Governor" (Ph.D.
                            dissertation, Department of History, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , 1954), chapter 1.
               
                     and terrible beauty; thus, as he said of north 
                        Wales
                    , he recognized "Nature… in his rude and awful Majesty."6 While in America he found time to indulge an artistic bent and left a small
                    cache of line drawings of Indians and scenes that obviously struck his imagination. He seemed
                    particularly affected by waterfalls, of which four drawings remain: two of Niagara and one each of
                    the falls of the Passaic and the Falls of Chaudiere on the 
                        Ottawa
                    . In each, great rushes of water plunge with vast energy throwing up clouds of spume and
                    spray and conveying an image of tremendous potency. Along the shore foliage and broken trees in
                    forbidding confusion complete an impression of almost Gothic menace. In one Niagara picture the
                    infinitesimal human figures clash with the sweep and strength of the surrounding scene.
                    Hamilton's landscape art reveals an avid observer who held a certain awe for the force of
                        nature.7
            
            The native people entered into Hamilton's drawings in dissimilar ways. The nine extant
                    Indian portraits disclose a genuine concern for native personality. Faces are vividly drawn, some
                    stolid, others more animated, but all are depicted with strength of character. One has the
                    impression that 
                        Hamilton
                     found inner resources in these native people and that his renderings strove to give
                    them concrete and tactile realization. In contrast, the native figures that appear in
                    Hamilton's landscapes are overwhelmed by the settings. The two minute Indian hunters who
                    lounge on the edge of a high, precipitous cliff serve mainly to heighten the sheer force of the
                    scene. Others are no more than minimal shapes, human no doubt, but with no function other than to
                    magnify the power of the natural surroundings. In his view of the falls of the Passaic
                        River, however, 
                        Hamilton
                     attributes to the native figures a violence of their own entirely compatible with the
                    surrounding turmoil. Two Indians (the figures are unclothed and hence seem to be Indian) appear at
                    the base of the falls, one in the pool and the other on shore, in the midst of a violent
                    altercation. Hamilton's caption reads: "Here a Savage jealous of his wife, threw
                    her into the River, and in her attempting to get to shore cut off her arm with his
                        Tomahawk."8
            
            
               
                  6 Henry Hamilton, "Reminiscences," Henry Hamilton Papers
                        (Houghton Library, 
                            Harvard
                         University, 
                            Cambridge
                        , Mass.), 6.
               
                  7 A portion of Hamilton's artistic production can be viewed in
                        the 
                            Hamilton
                         Papers.
               
                        8
                        Ibid.
                    
            
            
            
               LINE DRAWING BY HENRY HAMILTON "Here a Savage jealous of his wife, threw her into the River, and in
                        her attempting to get to shore cut off her arm with his Tomahawk."
               By permission of the Houghton Library, 
                            Harvard
                         University.
            
            
            Hamilton was plainly ambivalent about the native peoples that he saw and drew in the years before the
                    Revolution. In a face-to-face encounter he found the Indian personality worthy of sensitive and
                    intimate portrayal. The visages that he sketched revealed strong and vital personalities, curiously
                    accoutered but with a hint of usual human virtues and foibles. In another setting, however,
                    surrounded by the tumult and splendor of the American wilderness, their personalities seemed utterly
                    overwhelmed by the savage confusion of the background, though in one vivid instance he showed them
                    behaving in a manner befitting the brutal ferment of the world they inhabited.
            
               
                        Hamilton
                     may have been no James Adair or David Zeisberger, important eighteenth-century students
                    of Indian ethnology—or even Thomas Jefferson—but he did show a certain
                    academic interest in the Indian people. His Journal in particular contains a
                    number of detailed and reasonably objective disquisitions on aspects of native life. In addition, he
                    apparently established a close relationship with at least one Indian, a young 
                        Ottawa
                     brave named Mahingan. For all his sympathy and sensitivity to native ways, however, the
                    Indians remained for 
                        Hamilton
                    , as they did for virtually all white men who did not see them simply as bloody
                    "savages," "poor ignorant but well meaning creatures."9
            
            Hamilton's real interests in the Indians extended beyond the academic. At first Whitehall
                    had instructed him to keep the warriors out of the American orbit; later he was told to promote and
                    support their attacks on the frontier. To further these policies 
                        Hamilton
                     became a skillful Indian negotiator. Whether his success can be attributed more to the
                    convergence of interest between the British and the northwestern tribes than to his ability as a
                    manipulator of the tribal leadership can only be guessed. It is clear, however, that he brought to
                    his dealings with the Indians the considerable knowledge that he had acquired of native culture and
                    a real though grudging sympathy. He showed none of the disdain and aloofness that hampered much
                    British diplomacy with the American tribes. Soon after 
                  
                     9 John D. Barnhart, ed., Henry Hamilton and George Rogers
                                Clark in the American Revolution with the Unpublished Journal of Lieut. Gov. Henry
                                Hamilton (
                                Crawfordsville
                            , Ind., 1951), 108, 109–10, 227n, 164; for an example of
                            Hamilton's scientific interest see Hamilton to Frederick Haldimand, November 1,
                            1778, in H.W. Beckwith, ed., Letters from Canadian Archives (Collections of the 
                                    Illinois
                                 State Historical Library, Vol. I; 
                                Springfield
                            , Ill., 1903), 361–62.
               
                    
                    
                  LINE DRAWING BY HENRY HAMILTON OF PACANNÉ, A PROMINENT
                                MIAMI CHIEF WHO ACCOMPANIED HAMILTON'S EXPEDITION
                            FROM DETROIT TO VINCENNES
                  
                  By permission of the Houghton Library, 
                                Harvard
                             University.
               
                     entering on his responsibilities, for example, he discerned the
                    importance of ceremonial gift-giving. By holding frequent conferences with the Indians and keeping
                    them well supplied with provisions, he managed to retain their loyalty until defeat undermined his
                    system. Nor was he above plying the tribesmen with an abundant supply of liquor. Frederick
                    Haldimand, governor of 
                        Canada
                    , thought the 17,520 gallons consumed at 
                        Detroit
                     in a year "astonishing."10
            
            
               
                        Hamilton
                     went beyond these time-honored methods of gaining native allegiance. He took a lesson
                    from the French experience and resolved to prove to the warriors that the English understood their
                    ways and would do the Indians the honor of participating in them. On no less than a half dozen
                    occasions 
                        Hamilton
                     and his officers joined in the native war dance and intoned the appropriate song.
                    Perhaps the most publicized of these events occurred in the summer of 1777 when the
                    lieutenant-governor put into effect his orders to unleash the Indians against the frontier. With the
                    warriors arrayed in two lines, an ox was beheaded and a tomahawk sunk into its skull, after which 
                        Hamilton
                     danced and sang the war song. The animal represented the Viriginans against whom the
                    Indians were about to fight. (In a later instance a bear played the symbolic role, and Hamilton
                    himself wielded the tomahawk.) According to the account given by John Montour to Zeisberger,
                    Hamilton was painted and dressed like an Indian for the occasion. Montour's information may
                    have been designed for the expectations of his listener, but there can be no doubt that 
                        Hamilton
                     had been willing to accommodate himself to the ceremonial "savagery"
                    of his allies.11
            
            The case against the lieutenant-governor rested precisely on the easy alliance that he had
                    established with what virtually every white man interpreted as savagery. It is possible that 
                        Hamilton
                     had himself solicited the instructions from Lord George Germain that in 1777
                    commissioned British officers in America to lead native raiding parties against the frontier. The
                        
                  
                     10 Haldimand to Richard B. Lernoult, July 23, 1779, Haldimand Papers (
                                Michigan
                             Pioneer and Historical Society Historical Collections, Vol.
                            I; Lansing, Mich., 1908), 408.
                  
                     11 Council at 
                                Detroit
                            , June 18, 1777, in Reuben Gold Thwaites and Louise Phelps Kellogg, eds., Frontier Defense on the Upper 
                                    Ohio
                                , 1777–1778 (
                                Madison
                            , 1912), 9; David Zeisberger to George Morgan, July 7, 1777, ibid., 18–19; Barnhart, Henry Hamilton, 111, 113, 115,
                            117; 
                                Hamilton
                             to Haldimand, October 2, 1778, Haldimand Papers, IX, 482;
                            Silas Farmer, History of 
                                    Detroit
                                 and 
                                    Wayne County
                                 and Early 
                                    Michigan
                                
                      (2 vols., 
                                Detroit
                            , 1890), I, 246.
               
                     year before, when the warriors had shown an eagerness to support
                    the British cause and attack their enemies on the 
                        Ohio
                     and in 
                  Kentucky, Hamilton
                reluctantly refused aid, saying that he had
                    not yet received orders.12 Once instructions arrived from Whitehall, he
                    proceeded with much industry and a great deal of success to exploit the alliances he had made with
                    the nearby tribes. By September, 1777, 
                        Hamilton
                     informed Germain, there were already approximately 1,150 warriors out against the
                    frontier. From 1777 on, the line of western settlements was under almost constant assault by
                    white-led raiding parties that had originated at 
                        Detroit
                    .13
            
            Indeed, 
                        Hamilton
                     envisioned a far wider Indian alliance than even the formidable grouping with access to 
                        Detroit
                    . He communicated with John Stuart, the superintendent of Indian affairs south of the 
                        Ohio
                    , who already had orders on the matter, in the hope of bringing the full force of native
                    population east of the 
                        Mississippi
                     against the rebels. Agents were sent south, and 
                        Hamilton
                     expected representatives of the major southern tribes to concert with the northwest
                    Indians to cripple American power in the West. In addition, he expected the Iroquois and Shawnees,
                    who were already engaged in intermittent attacks on the white settlements, to synchronize their
                    efforts with the other Indian peoples. Before Clark cut short his career, 
                        Hamilton
                     had proved himself a man of large strategic designs in which the Indians played an
                    integral part. He was not merely a low-ranked officer performing an unpleasant duty prescribed by
                    his superiors.14
            
            
               
                  12 Lord George Germain to Guy Carleton, March 26, 1777, Haldimand Papers, IX, 346–47; Carleton to 
                            Hamilton
                        , May 21, 1777, ibid.; 
                            Hamilton
                         to Lord Dartmouth, August 29, September 2, 1776, ibid., X, 268.
                        The argument that 
                            Hamilton
                         solicited his orders rests on the assertion of Germain in his March 26 letter to
                        Carleton, though no letter from 
                            Hamilton
                         to Germain proposing that the Indians be sent against the frontier is extant.
                        Barnhart, "New Evaluation," 650, doubts that Hamilton was culpable.
               
                  13 Consul Wilshire Butterfield, History of George Rogers
                            Clark's Conquest of the 
                                Illinois
                             and 
                                Wabash
                             Towns, 1778 and 1779 (
                     Columbus, Ohio
                  , 1904), 46.
               
                  14 Haldimand to 
                            Hamilton
                        , August 26, 1778, Haldimand Papers, IX, 403; 
                            Hamilton
                         to Haldimand, July 6, 1781, ibid., 497; 
                            Hamilton
                         to Haldimand, January 24, 1779, in Beckwith, Letters from Canadian
                            Archives, I, 289–93; Conference with the Indians, 
                            Vincennes
                        , January 26, 1779, ibid., 394–97; 
                            Hamilton
                         to the People of 
                            Illinois
                        , December 29, 1778, in James Alton James, ed., George Rogers Clark
                            Papers, 1771–1781 (Collections of the 
                                Illinois
                             State Historical Library, Vol. VIII; 
                            Springfield
                        , Ill., 1912), 96–97; Richard B. Lernoult to 
                            Hamilton
                        , February 9, 1779, ibid., 108. For Jefferson's fear that 
                            Hamilton
                         might be successful see Jefferson to Richard Henry Lee, June 17, 1779, in Julian P.
                        Boyd, ed., Papers, of Thomas Jefferson (19 vols. to date, 
                            Princeton
                        , 1950-), III, 298.
            
            
            Nevertheless, Hamilton did often find the duty of encouraging Indian raids on American settlements
                    unpleasant. In time, of course, after his capture and in response to the obloquy heaped on his name
                    by the Americans, he made a point of stressing the great scruples with which he engaged in frontier
                    war, but one does not have to appeal to these later exculpations. The letters he wrote at the time
                    and the instructions he delivered to visiting tribesmen bear witness to his concern over the nature
                    of Indian hostilities. Despite the allure of the Indians, he shared the widely entertained
                    conviction that the warfare practiced by the warriors constituted a vestige of savagery from which
                    civilization had long since rescued the white man.
            From his experience in the Seven Years' War Hamilton had learned how
                    "deplorable" Indian fighting could be.15 The British,
                    especially, remembered the debacle after the capture of Fort William Henry. When Hamilton fell into
                    French hands at the battle of Sainte Foy in April, 1760, he asked to be taken to the officer in
                    charge. That gentleman, perceiving the danger, exchanged coats with 
                        Hamilton
                     so that the scarlet trim on his British uniform would not be seen by the Indians.
                    "Shortly after this," 
                        Hamilton
                     later recorded, "we prisoners were marched ostentatiously thro the Indian
                    encampment, not without a very unpleasant feeling, the Savages employed some in scraping and
                    dressing Englishmen's scalps, others whetting their knives and
                    Tomahawks—" 
                        Hamilton
                     knew that the Indians had already scalped many of his colleagues who had been wounded.
                    He also suspected that not all French officers could be depended upon to protect British prisoners.
                    Rumor had it that the French turned over many prisoners to their "savage" allies
                    who then tortured and killed them.16
            
            Although Hamilton later tried to moderate the brutality of Indian behavior, he sensed that the task
                    was hopeless. Thus on the eve of dispatching the warriors he pleaded rhetorically, "Would
                    to God this storm which is ready to fall on the Frontiers could be directed upon the guilty heads of
                    those wretches who have raised it, and pass by the miserable many who must feel its fatal
                    effects." The truth was that he believed Indians to 
                  
                     15
                            
                                Hamilton
                             to Dartmouth, August 29, September 2, 1776, Haldimand Papers,
                            X, 268.
                  
                     16 Henry Hamilton, "Reminiscences," 92,
                            94–95; John Knox, An Historical Journal…, ed. Arthur
                            G. Doughty (Publications of the Champlain Society, Vol. IX; 
                                Toronto
                            , 1914), 427–28.
               
                     have a "natural propensity… for
                    blood." Furthermore, he found "their superstitions too strong to be
                    combatted" and was deeply apprehensive of any event that might rouse their ferocity. Even
                    by his own reckoning, therefore, he had assumed an extraordinarily difficult role in his
                    determination to change the character of native warfare.17
            
            
               
                        Hamilton
                     claimed that above all he wished to keep the warriors from killing women, children, and
                    unarmed men. He affirmed this principle in reports to his superiors, and time after time he exhorted
                    the Indians to confine their attacks to those who bore arms and opposed the king. You should not, he
                    told the warriors, "redden your axe with the blood of Women and Children or innocent men. I
                    know that men, kill men and not children. I speak to you who are men." If the Indians
                    wished "to lose the name of Barbarians, they must cease to act as Wolves."18 To insure the enforcement of his policy, war parties left 
                        Detroit
                     under the direction of white officers and usually mixed with a sizable contingent of
                    French militia. In fact, 
                        Hamilton
                     protested to Quebec that as lieutenant-governor rather than commandant of 
                        Detroit
                     he lacked adequate control over the composition of the parties. He wanted more troops
                    to curb the Indian propensity for indiscriminate warfare.19 Despite this
                    limitation he argued that his policy had been a success. He had the assurance of the Indians
                    themselves that "Our intention is never to act against children, but against men,"
                    and he later told the Earl of Shelburne that his influence over the Indians was sufficient to effect
                    "that change in their manner of carrying on… which was rather to be wished than
                        expected."20
            
            From the story of his career on the frontier 
                        Hamilton
                     emerges as a man deeply troubled by the problem of the American Indian. He found the
                    native people both fascinating and 
                  
                     17 Quotations, in order, from 
                                Hamilton
                             to Germain, June, 1777, quoted in Russell, "Indian Policy of Henry
                            Hamilton," 25; Barnhart, Henry Hamilton, 122, 146; see also 
                                Hamilton
                             to Haldimand, July 6, 1781, Haldimand Papers, IX, 494.
                  
                     18 Quotations, in order, from Haldimand Papers, IX,
                            456; Barnhart, Henry Hamilton, 155–56; see also 
                                Hamilton
                             to Lord Shelburne, April 9, 1782, typescript in the Burton Collection (
                                Detroit
                             Public Library); Haldimand Papers, IX, 454, 457; Thwaites and
                            Kellogg, Frontier Defense, 11, 12, 13.
                  
                     19 Barnhart, Henry Hamilton, 31, 35.
                  
                     20 Quotations, in order, from Haldimand Papers, IX,
                            457; Barnhart, Henry Hamilton, 36; see also 
                                Hamilton
                             to Shelburne, April 9, 1782, Burton Collection; 
                                Hamilton
                             to Carleton, April 25, 1778, in Thwaites and Kellogg, Frontier
                                Defense, 284; Jaebker, "Henry Hamilton," 141.
               
                     distressing, a handy ally in defending the empire against
                    rebellion and at the same time an acute threat to the survival of civil ways. He described their
                    social character in writing and their visages and artifacts in pencil sketches with sympathy, but he
                    never doubted that their lives were both squalid and savage. Although he abhorred the native habit
                    of killing non-combatants, he eagerly dispatched war parties to attack the frontier settlements,
                    assuaging his conscience with the caveat that he had counseled adherence to European rules. The
                    Americans, of course, thought him insincere. He may have been, though his life as a whole belies it.
                    On one level, no doubt, 
                        Hamilton
                     simply had difficulty reconciling his need for native auxiliaries with his feelings
                    about their behavior. That he thought he had been successful in changing their methods, however,
                    betrays either a monumental naiveté or a startling capacity for self-delusion. It reveals
                    in fact the depth of his ambivalence on the subject. So intensely did he dread the consequences of
                    his actions that only self-delusion would answer the case that most Americans believed to be true.
            In its popular form the case against 
                        Hamilton
                     rested on accusations that he encouraged the Indians to bring in scalps and rewarded
                    them for these grisly totems of their success. Most of the evidence derived from rumor and hearsay.
                    Some was plainly fraudulent, as, for example, the testimony of John Dodge, but there were
                    eyewitnesses who told believable stories of what they had seen at 
                        Detroit
                    . Daniel Sullivan and John Leith had both visited the fort and had brought back vivid
                    accounts of Hamilton's dealings with the Indians. Leith's story in particular
                    portrayed the misery of the Indians' prisoners and the importance that the British and
                    Indians attached to scalps in the war against the frontier, but neither Leith nor Sullivan had
                    actually seen 
                        Hamilton
                     pay for the scalps. That accusation had no more than rumor for support, though it
                    remained virtually universal.21
            
            In fact, the popular contentions were not far from the mark. 
                        Hamilton
                     accepted scalps from the Indians without, it would appear, very close scrutiny as to
                    their origins. If he did not actually pay for them with a formal bounty, he certainly 
                  
                     21 John Dodge, "A Narrative of the Capture and Treatment of
                            John Dodge by the English at 
                                Detroit
                            ," The Remembrancer, VIII (1779), 74, 77;
                            "Daniel Sullivan's Deposition," in Thwaites and Kellogg, Frontier Defense, 231–32; C.W. Butterfield, ed., Leith's Narrative (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1883; orig. pub., 
                        Lancaster,
                                    Ohio
                     , 1831), 28–30.
                            See also "Deposition of James Ballinger," in James, Clark
                                Papers, VII, 582; The Remembrancer, VIII (1779), 83.
               
                     did reward the natives for their services and success against
                    the frontier settlements. His own commissary inventory listed scalping knives as an item of
                        trade.22 Moreover, he left a fragmentary but suggestive record of the
                    numbers of scalps received from the returning warriors: at one time 129, at another 81, and at yet
                    others 15 and 9.23 At the least Hamilton's public reception of scalps
                    meant that he had agreed to engage in the game of wilderness war on the Indians' terms, but
                    his complicity went even deeper. By his own admission he behaved in such a way as to sanction the
                    use of scalps as a valuable instrument in cementing the relationship between the British and their
                    Indian allies. Perhaps the most incriminating evidence may be found in his account of a council held
                    with the Indians at 
                        Detroit
                     on June 2, 1778. "Some Delawares," he reported, "are this
                    day arrived who are desirous of showing their intention of joining their brethren & have
                    presented me two pieces of dryed meat (scalps) one of which I have given the Chippoweys, another to
                    the Miamis, that they may show in their villages the disposition of the Delawares."24 The choice of language ("dryed meat") may have been merely
                    a callous slip, but there can be no doubt that 
                        Hamilton
                     had become more than a detached and reluctant agent of British imperial interests
                    forced by circumstances to deal with allies who had odious manners. On the contrary, his actions
                    lent to the Indian practice a legitimacy that contrasted sharply with his frequent protestations of
                    innocence.
            Hamilton's principal antagonist in the West, George Rogers Clark, faced a different sort of
                    problem in his dealings with the native people. Unless he managed to take 
                        Detroit
                     and sweep the British from the Northwest, Clark stood little chance of gaining the
                    Indians' loyalty; thus, his attitudes toward them diverged in many ways from
                    Hamilton's. For him the natives were not potential allies but implacable enemies who
                    tormented his brethren in the frontier settlements. In addition, Clark was free of that
                    eighteenth-century scientific attraction to the natives that informed Hamilton's thinking
                    about them. 
                  
                     22
                            Haldimand Papers, IX, 471. Normand MacLeod, who led the advance party on
                            the British expedition to 
                                Vincennes
                            , told the Miami chiefs that he hoped they would bring in more 
                                Virginia
                             scalps. See William A. Evans and Elizabeth S. Sklar, eds., 
                        
                                    Detroit
                                 to Fort Sackville, 1778–1779: The Journal of Normand
                            MacLeod (
                                Detroit
                            , 1978), 33.
                  
                     23
                            
                                Hamilton
                             to Haldimand, January 15, 1778, September, 1778, September 16, 1778, Haldimand Papers, IX, 431, 464–65, 477.
                  
                     24
                            Ibid., 446.
               
                     (And, it might be added, that played so prominent a part in the
                    musings of Clark's mentor, Jefferson, and in the later career of his younger brother,
                    William.) Clark was far more the coarsegrained frontiersman, intelligent but ill-educated,
                    extraordinarily resourceful but ultimately dependent on drink, an Indian fighter who despised his
                    enemy but who often imitated native ways. In this last sense the contrast with 
                        Hamilton
                     breaks down. For Clark, the Indian could not have been an intellectual issue;
                    nevertheless, he struggled, as did so many in the border settlements, with the lure of native
                    habits. All the more ironic, then, that he should have seen in Hamilton's relations with
                    the Indians evidence of the lieutenant-governor's betrayal of civil order.
            Clark's mind was on the Indians from the early years of his experience in the West. He
                    served in a 
                        Virginia
                     contingent in Dunmore's War and soon after became prominent in defense of the 
                        Kentucky
                     settlements against the native warriors.25 When Clark went east to 
                        Williamsburg
                     in 1777 to sell Governor Patrick Henry on his western strategy, Indians remained
                    prominent in his thinking. By his own assertion he wished to relieve 
                        Kentucky
                     by first driving the British from 
                        Illinois
                     and then taking 
                        Detroit
                    . Without supplies furnished by the crown and the initiative of British officers, the
                    northwest tribes would be neutralized and the 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     frontiers free of the Indian danger.26 The problem with
                    Clark's plan was that it never worked because it was ill-conceived from the beginning.27 Clark managed, of course, to clear the British from 
                        Illinois
                    , but he could not hold it long for the Americans. By 1781 
                        Virginia
                     troops were forced to abandon the 
                        Wabash
                     and 
                        Mississippi
                     forts for want of provisions. Clark never did capture 
                        Detroit
                    , despite support from 
                        Washington
                     and Jefferson. Even if he had been successful, it can be doubted whether the frontier
                    people would have been much aided. The occupation of 
                        Illinois
                     did little for them, nor did Clark's nearer establishment at the falls of the 
                        Ohio
                    . If 
                        Detroit
                     had fallen, some of the tribes dependent on that fort might have been neutralized for a
                    time, but, in fact, the warriors did not require the stimulation of the 
                        Detroit
                     garrison 
                  
                     25 The best biography of Clark remains James Alton James, The Life of George Rogers Clark (
                                Chicago
                            , 1928).
                  
                     26 James, Clark Papers, VIII, 30–32;
                            Patrick Henry to Virginia Delegates in Congress, November 16, 1778, ibid.,
                            72–74; George Wythe, George Mason, Thomas Jefferson to George Rogers Clark,
                            January 3, 1778, ibid., 37–38; Boyd, Papers of
                                Jefferson, II, 246.
                  
                     27 Sosin, Revolutionary Frontier, 117.
               
                     to incite them against 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     settlements. They had their own reasons for attempting to keep the white man out of 
                        Kentucky
                     and east of the upper 
                        Ohio
                    . One might suppose, then, that Clark had other intentions in proposing his plan to the 
                        Virginia
                     governor, perhaps a hankering after new lands farther west than the imaginations of
                    most Virginians had yet reached, or it may be that his geopolitical foresight was more refined than
                    seems likely and that he understood the importance to peace negotiations of an outpost on the 
                        Mississippi
                    . Certainly land was in his mind. He eventually reaped a landed reward for his exploits.
                    And Jefferson, if not Clark, perceived the importance of holding a portion of the great river.
                    Clark, if his own writings are to be believed, thought mainly about Indians. He was a man of the
                    frontier, and he became famous defending it against its "savage" enemies.
            By 1777, when Clark formulated his plan to subdue the northwest Indians, the issue of native
                    participation had been settled. Most of the tribes had already come in on the British side or were
                    likely to do so soon. Hence the American reaction could be expected. The native people had chosen
                    the wrong side in a struggle that for the Americans was certain to determine the future of mankind.
                    People like Henry and Jefferson, the two Viriginia governors with whom Clark dealt, counseled the
                    severest treatment of the tribes who opposed American interests. They could only be a treacherous
                    and dangerous people. They "must be managed," wrote Henry, "by working on
                    their Fears," a sentiment echoed by Jefferson to the effect that if the Indians could not
                    be taught to keep faith, they must be taught to fear. Later in the conflict Jefferson recommended to
                    Clark the "total suppression of Savage Insolence and Cruelties," by which he no
                    doubt meant the "extermination" or removal of tribes who persisted in
                        resistance.28
            
            Clark's own formula for treating with Indians fully conformed to the governors'
                    sentiments. He proposed to discard the notion "that soft speeches was best for
                    Indians." It had, he thought, caused untold mischief. He preferred what he called the
                    French and Spanish method, harsh speech and the threat of immediate action. Elaborate festivities
                    with much ceremonial talk and expensive gifts (more the French and Spanish than 
                  
                     28 Henry to Edward Hand, July 27, 1777, in Thwaites and Kellogg, Frontier Defense, 30; Jefferson to Clark, January 1, 1780, in Boyd, Papers of Jefferson, III, 259; Jefferson to Clark, September 29, 1780, ibid., 670.
               
                     the English usage) only fostered illusions in the
                    Indians' minds and led to greater demands and ultimately to another outbreak of conflict.
                    Blunt language and speedy retribution would keep the peace. He told one native group that if they
                    continued to support the British "they would see their great father as they called him
                    given to the Dogs to eat." The Indians, he believed, must be convinced that "we
                    are always able to crush them at pleasure, and determined to do it when Ever they
                    misbehave." So long as the Indians believed that he could make good on his threats (he
                    never really had the force), the method worked. But not always. Old Tobacco, a Piankashaw chief,
                    reacted boldly. Clark was in the habit of offering the Indians two belts simultaneously, one
                    signifiying war and the other peace. They were to make their choice and abide the consequences. For
                    Old Tobacco this procedure defied ancient custom. One could not at a conference "present
                    good and evil at one and the same time." "He kicked the belts from him."
                    Old Tobacco, at least, understood that Clark's bravado anticipated an end to the time when
                    the white man would concede the legitimacy of Indian usages.29
            
            It should be noted that Clark's practice did not always conform to his principles. He did,
                    for example, adopt the traditional manner of speaking to Indians, which demanded a heavily allusive
                    mode of speech and the kind of simple vocabulary thought to be suitable for primitive people. In
                    conference with Black Bird, a Chippewa chief, Clark delivered his usual account of the establishment
                    of English settlements in America and the reasons for the Revolution. Black Bird, in turn,
                    "assumed the Airs of a Polite Genn… and attempted to speak
                    as much in the European manner as possible." Thus the discussion occupied the better part
                    of the day with Clark doing his best to avoid the "Similes"30
                    he used with other Indians. Black Bird, it appears, accepted the new dispensation that Clark
                    attempted to introduce into Indian-white relations. Most other Indians did not, in which case Clark
                    adopted the traditional forms of speech that white men assumed were compatible with the Indian
                    manner.
            
               
                  29 Quotations, in order, from George Rogers Clark, Col.
                            George Rogers Clark's Sketch of His Campaign in the 
                                Illinois
                             in 1778–79 (
                            Cincinnati
                        , 1869), 38; Clark to Benjamin Harrison, May 22, 1783, in James, Clark
                            Papers, XIX, 236–39. See also "Memoir," in James, Clark Papers, VIII, 243, 298; Evans and Sklar, 
                     
                                Detroit
                             to Fort Sackville, 17.
               
                  30 "Memoir," in James, Clark Papers,
                        VIII, 252–55.
            
            
            The truth of the matter was that Clark made a conscious effort at imitating the Indians. It was not
                    merely that he led frontiersmen whom a contemporary observer described as "a wild,
                    ungovernable race, little less savage than their tawny neighbours," men who in fact engaged
                    in "similar barbarities." Clark cultivated the image. He argued that the only way
                    to fight Indians was "to excell them in barbarity." The French inhabitants of 
                        Kaskaskia
                     had gotten the message. They were convinced that Clark and his followers "ment
                    to strip the women and children or take the Bread out of ther mouths or… make war on the
                    women and Children or the Church." Clark finally reassured them but not before recording
                    his pleasure that the French should entertain "a most horrid Idea of the Barbarity of the
                    Rebels," that they should believe them "more savage than their Neighbours the
                        Indians."31
            
            Clark and his men followed the frontier habit of dressing in a partial imitation of the Indians.
                    Governor Fernando de Leyba of 
                        St. Louis
                     described their entrance into town. "The commanding colonel
                    arrived… in a hunting shirt and breechcloth, naked of foot and limb and with his bed,
                    food, and gun on his shoulder. The troops had no other equipment than breechcloth, powder horn, gun,
                    and knapsack." They were, as Leyba noted, "bandits in appearance." The
                    reason was clear. When Clark and his little army reached the falls of the 
                        Ohio
                     on their way to attack 
                        Kaskaskia
                     in 1778, they abandoned their baggage "except as much as would equip us in the
                    Indean [sic] mode." In 1780 on his trip east to lead an attack against
                    the Shawnees, Clark and his men disguised themselves as Indians in order to make their way safely
                    through the wilderness; and, of course, most of the men who followed him into 
                        Ohio
                     for that campaign dressed in "hunting shirts and breech clouts, some linen
                    & others buckskin."32
            
            Clark's penchant for ersatz Indianness served him well in surviving the arduous expedition
                    to 
                        Vincennes
                     in the winter of 1779. When the men resisted yet another plunge into the frigid waters,
                    he recounted that he "Viewed their confution for about one minute[,] Whispered to those
                    near me to [do] as I did—amediately took some water in my hand[,] poured on Powder[,]
                        
                  
                     31 James, Clark Papers, VIII, xlvi;
                            "Memoir," ibid., 226, 229–31, 298.
                  
                     32 Fernando de Leyba to Bernardo de Galvez, July 11, 21, 1778, in
                            Lawrence Kinnaird, ed., "Clark-Leyba Papers," American
                                Historical Review, XLI (October, 1935), 95, 98; "Memoir," in
                            James, Clark Papers, VIII, 224; Henry Wilson, "Account of the
                            Campaign against the Shawnee Indians," ibid., 476;
                            "Introduction," ibid., cxxxvii-cxxxviii.
               
                     Blacked my face[,] gave the war hoop[,] and marched into the
                    water without saying a word[.]" In order to keep the band's spirits from flagging,
                    he allowed the men to shoot game and to "feast on them like Indian war Dances each company
                    by Turns Inviting the other to their feasts." It appears that they did actually dance in
                    the native manner. For Clark, play-act Indianness had its uses.33
            
            Later, the frontiersmen's imitation of the Indians proved to be a minor embarrassment. After
                    his brilliant success in 
                        Illinois
                    , Clark established himself at Fort Jefferson on the falls of the 
                        Ohio
                     and waited for the march against 
                        Detroit
                    . It never came. Confined to their stockade with short supplies, the garrison became
                    restless. In the summer of 1782 the French inhabitants of 
                        Vincennes
                     found some of their horses missing and assumed that Clark's men from the falls
                    were responsible. A party of Indians was sent in pursuit. They came on the culprits after trailing
                    them for three days, retook the horses, and killed one thief. As one of Clark's
                    correspondents from 
                        Vincennes
                     reported: "They knew them to be white people, though disguis'd, and
                    painted as the barbarians, he that was kill'd was undoubtedly a white man and
                    painted." The party had been actually a mixed group of whites and Indians, the whites,
                    performing the native role of horse stealing, appropriately dressed and decorated as Indians.34
            
            For white men the quintessential native trait was scalping. They feared and abhorred it as a sign of
                    savagery and regularly engaged in it when they fought the Indians. Whether Clark himself ever raised
                    a scalp cannot be said with assurance. (
                        Hamilton
                     thought he had, though in the instance he cited he was probably wrong.) Clark surely
                    had, however, traveled with men who made scalping a common practice, and the soldiers under his
                    command did the same. It was said during Pontiac's Uprising that David Owens, with whom
                    Clark descended the 
                        Ohio
                     in 1772, scalped his Indian wife and four children to claim the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     bounty. That later on Clark ordered scalps taken seems likely. When rumor reached 
                        Kaskaskia
                     that 
                        Hamilton
                     had captured 
                        Vincennes
                    , Clark informed Leyba: "I expect a true Information Every Hour as I have
                    Several small 
                  
                     33 "Memoir," in James, Clark
                            Papers, VIII, 269, 274.
                  
                     34 J. M. P. Legras to Clark, August 1, 1782, in James, Clark Papers, VIII, 84–85; William Fleming to Benjamin Harrison,
                            September 26, 1782, ibid., 117–18; John Bowman to Harrison,
                            August 30, 1782, ibid., XIX, 100–101.
               
                     parties gone to O Post [
                        Vincennes
                    ] for scalps and prisoners." In the campaign against the Shawnees seventy-three
                    scalps were virtually the only tokens of victory.35
            
            Perhaps the most revealing and controversial incident in Clark's career occurred at 
                        Vincennes
                     the day before 
                        Hamilton
                     surrendered the fort. Clark was about to meet 
                        Hamilton
                     for a second time to discuss the capitulation when news arrived that a party of
                    Indians, dispatched by Hamilton some weeks before to cut communications on the 
                        Ohio
                    , was making its way toward 
                        Vincennes
                    . Without knowledge of the situation, the Indians and their white leaders approached the
                    town in the usual mood of celebration, emptying their muskets in the air. The contingent Clark sent
                    to intercept them gained the surprise. Two of the party were killed on the spot (and scalped), and
                    six were taken prisoner. Two of these were Frenchmen who, after being vouched for by a townswoman
                    and one of Clark's French followers, were released. That left four Indians held captive.
                    They were manhandled to the plaza before the fort gate, forced to sit in a circle, and tomahawked.
                    The bodies were scalped, then dragged to the river and thrown in, though some of the victims may
                    still have been alive. The deed done, Clark went to meet 
                        Hamilton
                     on the esplanade where they continued negotiations.
            Clark offered various accounts of the incident, all of them quite matter-of-fact. He seemed to
                    consider the atrocity fully warranted; certainly he expressed no regret over it. As justification he
                    argued that it had been necessary to show the native warriors who remained in the town that they
                    could no longer depend on the British for support. It is more likely that instead of tactical
                    necessity his motivations drew on a deep well of resentment and passion. He had already informed 
                        Hamilton
                     that he only sought an excuse to put all the Indians and, as he called their white
                    leaders, partisans to death. Moreover, at the sight of one of these captured partisans, painted and
                    regaled like an Indian, he was filled with "indignation" and ordered that he
                    should be executed. By his own admission he was even more violent in his anger at the whites, who
                    had betrayed their obligations to civil behavior, than he was at the Indians, who were, after all,
                    in his mind savages. He ordered the murders as 
                  
                     35 Clark to Leyba, January 23, 1779, in Kinnaird,
                            "Clark-Leyba Papers," 105; Dale Van Every, A Company of
                                Heroes: The American Frontier, 1775–1783 (
                                New York
                            , 1962), 49; James, Clark Papers, VIII, 7, 21, 557, XIX, 157;
                            Wilson, "Account of the Shawnee Campaign," ibid., VIII,
                            481, 483.
               
                     an act of vengeance against those who had slaughtered his
                    frontier compatriots and as a vindication of civilization.36
            
            Told in its bare detail the incident was sufficiently macabre, but embellished by Clark's
                    British enemies it became even more sanguinary. Both Hamilton and his aide, Lieutenant Jacob
                    Schieffelin, believed that Clark had himself wielded the tomahawk. According to the lieutenant,
                    Clark "took a tomahawk, and in cold blood knocked their brains out, dipping his hands in
                    their blood, rubbing it several times on his cheeks, yelping as a Savage…." One
                    of the Indians, having been struck in the head once without decisive effect, dislodged the tomahawk
                    himself and handed it to his assailant, who delivered two more blows before the warrior was cast
                    into the river apparently still alive. 
                        Hamilton
                     described Clark's arrival at the esplanade minutes after, "reeking
                    with blood," where "He spoke with rapture of his late achievement, while he washed
                    of [sic] the blood from his hands stain'd in this inhuman
                    sacrifice." The scalps were later displayed outside Hamilton's quarters. Neither
                    Hamilton nor Schieffelin witnessed the incident. Hamilton's information came from the owner
                    of the house where he was held after the surrender who claimed to have been present. Of course the
                    British officers had reason to put Clark in a bad light. Both were under attack for their alleged
                    responsibility for similar "savage" behavior and might profit from making a case
                    against Clark. More important was the ease with which both sides resorted to accusations of
                        savagery.37
            
            The second atrocity of the day concerned the treatment of Francis Maisonville, one of the leaders of
                    Hamilton's French militia. Maisonville had been away with a scouting party and had returned
                    after Clark and his men had entered the town. According to 
                        Hamilton
                    , one of the townsmen betrayed him to the Americans. He was threatened with hanging, a
                    halter placed about his neck, if he did not reveal the location of his companions. This method
                    having failed, Clark ordered him scalped in retaliation for his partisan activities. With some
                    reluctance (Clark had to repeat the order) one of the Americans raised two small portions of skin
                    from his head before abandoning the effort. In Schieffelin's account Maisonville lost his
                    whole scalp. Once again one of Clark's French followers interceded, 
                  
                     36 "Journal," February 24, 1779, in James, Clark Papers, VIII, 167; "Memoir," ibid., 288; Clark to Henry, April 29, 1779, ibid., 171; Clark, Sketch, 73–74.
                  
                     37 Barnhart, Henry Hamilton, 182–83, 188; 
                                Hamilton
                             to Haldimand, July 6, 1781, Haldimand Papers, IX,
                            501–502; 
                                Hamilton
                             to Shelburne, April 9, 1782, Burton Collection; Jacob Schieffelin,
                            "Narrative of Gov. Henry Hamilton," Magazine of American
                                History, I (March, 1877), 191–92.
               
                     and Maisonville was saved for the present.38
                    Clark told a different story. Two of his "lads," he wrote, captured Maisonville,
                    "a famous Indian partisan," tied him to a post before the stockade and kept up a
                    fire from behind him. An officer cut short their "amusement" and ordered
                    Maisonville taken to the guardhouse. On the way, Clark admitted, "they were so inhuman as
                    to take part of his scalp." Later, after being sent to 
                        Williamsburg
                     with 
                        Hamilton
                     and his officers, Maisonville committed suicide. 
                        Hamilton
                     saw the episode as further evidence of Clark's inhumanity and descent into a
                    "savage" condition. Clark recorded the incident without comment, though with
                    perhaps a touch of irony, and apparently without misgivings over the retribution due a white man who
                    fought alongside Indians.39
            
            Hamilton's decision to give up 
                        Vincennes
                     on February 24, 1779, presented Clark with an opportunity to visit a proper vengeance
                    on the enemies of civilization. 
                        Hamilton
                     remained the arch-criminal. Though Clark had probably not invented the phrase, his
                    reference to the lieutenant-governor as "The Famous Hair Buyer General"
                    established the moral justification and the propaganda theme for his western strategy. Actually the
                    description had been used a year earlier in a letter to Clark from James Willing, the notorious
                    filibusterer. Willing's reference, however, was to Phillipe de Rocheblave, the British
                    representative at 
                        Kaskaskia
                     who had learned the art of frontier fighting from Charles Langlade during the French
                    and Indian War. Clark knew Rocheblave's reputation, and upon entering 
                        Kaskaskia
                     he promptly loaded the gentleman with irons, confiscated his property, and locked him
                    in a hog pen. Rocheblave was soon released from his shackles, and Governor Henry later directed that
                    his property should be returned, but not before Clark had made his views clear and offered a preview
                    of his behavior once the principal villain fell into his hands.40
            
            When Hamilton realized the futility of continued fighting and asked Clark in the traditional manner
                    for terms, he received an unexpected response. In Clark's mind he deserved no terms at all.
                    One does not offer terms to the allies of savages 
                  
                     38 Barnhart, Henry Hamilton, 182; 
                                Hamilton
                             to Shelburne, April 9, 1782, Burton Collection; 
                                Hamilton
                             to Haldimand, July 6, 1781, Haldimand Papers, IX,
                            501–502; Schieffelin, "Narrative," 188.
                  
                     39 "Memoir," in James, Clark
                            Papers, VIII, 283.
                  
                     40 Clark to Henry, February 3, 1779, in James, Clark
                                Papers, VIII, 97; "Bowman's Journal," ibid., 159; James Willing to Clark, September 1, 1778, ibid.,
                            67.
               
                     who have forsaken the rules of civilization. In reply to
                    Hamilton's request for an explanation, Clark spoke frankly: now that he had within his
                    grasp the greatest part of the Indian partisans from 
                        Detroit
                    , he "wanted an excuse to put them to Death or other ways treat them as I
                    thought proper that the Cries of the Widows and Fatherless on the Frontiers that they had occationed
                    now Required their Blood from my Hands…." 
                        Hamilton
                     tried a feeble defense, but Clark was not listening. He ended the conversation with a
                    burst of passion: "my blood glows within my veins to think on the crueltys your Indian
                    parties have committed…."41 Of course Clark was often
                    unrestrained in his speech. He acted and spoke boldly, and one can assume that he did not always
                    mean all that he said. He did finally offer 
                        Hamilton
                     and his men terms, very broad ones it is true, but terms nonetheless; yet, there would
                    seem no reason not to take him at his word. Circumstances led him to make concessions, even to
                    moderate his views of 
                        Hamilton
                    , but he never ceased to think of him as the "Hair Buyer" or to
                    believe that Indian warfare, abetted by the British, constituted a breach of civil order.
            How deeply Clark felt became evident after Hamilton's surrender. He first permitted the
                    British and French captives who had taken no part in Indian depredations to leave for 
                        Detroit
                    ; then, despite the formal capitulation, Clark ordered all the prisoners who had
                    accompanied Indians on their raids to be put in irons—neck, hands, and feet. Only after a
                    vigorous protest by Hamilton was the order left unexecuted. Without the intervention of the
                    townspeople, a number of the French partisans would have been hanged. 
                        Hamilton
                     believed that his own life had been threatened, and on one occasion he fled from his
                    quarters. In time Clark softened. Hamilton's gentlemanly bearing and apparent rectitude led
                    Clark to grant him and his men the freedom of the fort, but he did not change his views on
                    Hamilton's ultimate guilt. Consequently, on March 8, 1779, the lieutenant-governor and
                    twenty-six of his followers were dispatched under guard to 
                        Williamsburg
                     to face the wrath of the 
                        Kentucky
                     frontier posts on the way and, at the end of their journey, the stern justice of Thomas
                        Jefferson.42
            
            
               
                  41 Quotations, in order, from "Memoir," in James, Clark Papers, VIII, 287; "Journal," February 24, 1779, ibid., 167–68; see also "Bowman's
                        Journal," ibid., 160; Clark, Sketch, 72.
               
                  42 Barnhart, Henry Hamilton, 187–88,
                        190–91; "Memoir," in James, Clark Papers, VIII,
                        289; 
                            Hamilton
                         to Haldimand, July 6, 1781, Haldimand Papers, IX, 505.
            
            
            In the meantime Clark continued to press his strategy against 
                        Detroit
                    . He believed the reduction of that post necessary for the success of the revolutionary
                    cause in the West, but, more importantly, he argued that Hamilton's policies were being
                    continued by his successors. If anything, the situation had become worse. Now, when Indians arrived
                    with prisoners or scalps, the fort magazines were thrown open for them to choose their own rewards.
                    Hamilton's defeat and capture had merely raised "the price now given for the Blood
                    of the Innocent women & Children on our Frontiers." Clark had turned the
                    "Hair Buyer" over to higher authority, but he continued to struggle with the
                    menace of "savagery."43
            
            Hamilton's ordeal began at 
                  Chesterfield,
                            Virginia
               , when an order arrived from
                    Jefferson directing that the lieutenant-governor and the Indian partisan William La Mothe should be
                    confined in chains. Two days later, June 16, 1779, they reached 
                        Williamsburg
                    , wet, hungry, and tired, and were forced to wait in the rain in front of the
                    governor's palace while the officer in charge reported. They were then deposited in the
                    common jail. Here Hamilton and La Mothe found Philip DeJean, the 
                        Detroit
                     justice of the peace, who had reached 
                        Williamsburg
                     some days before. The following day the prisoners were adorned with full sets of irons. 
                        Hamilton
                     claimed that his weighed over eighteen pounds. He remained fettered for two months
                    until his gout flared and forced the jailer to replace the irons with handcuffs. At the end of
                    August the prisoners were joined by Jehu Hay, a deputy Indian agent, and four other officers. Early
                    in October the irons were removed completely and the prisoners offered parole to 
                        Hanover
                     Courthouse. La Mothe and DeJean accepted, but the others declined and remained in the 
                        Williamsburg
                     jail. Early in the spring of 1780 Schieffelin and Rocheblave managed to escape, and in
                    June Maisonville took his own life. The last two prisoners, 
                        Hamilton
                     and Hay, were sent in August to Chesterfield where their confinement was less onerous.
                    After refusing two paroles, they accepted the third in October, 1780, and made their way to 
                        New York
                    .44
            
            Jefferson, the newly elected governor of 
                        Virginia
                    , accepted the popular view of Hamilton's role in the frontier conflict and as
                    a consequence refused to grant the lieutenant-governor the 
                  
                     43 Clark to Jonathan Clark, January 16, 1780, in James, Clark Papers, VIII, 383.
                  
                     44 The fullest account of Hamilton's confinement can be found
                            in Jaebker, "Henry Hamilton," chapter VII.
               
                     treatment commonly accorded a prisoner of war. Despite his
                    formal capitulation to Clark, Hamilton suffered even more severely than a common criminal. In time,
                    his confinement became less stringent, and he gained his freedom ultimately in keeping with the
                    eighteenth-century procedures governing prisoner exchange. In the face of circumstances, prudent
                    advice, and a British threat of retaliation, Jefferson had relented, but he continued to believe
                    that Hamilton's behavior merited in strict justice the humiliation of heavy irons and close
                    confinement. He recorded his views in an order issued by the 
                        Virginia
                     Council; in an exchange of letters with General William Phillips, the officer in charge
                    of British prisoners residing in the 
                        Charlottesville
                     area; and in the comments that formed a prominent part in his correspondence during the
                    time of Hamilton's imprisonment.
            On the day that 
                        Hamilton
                     reached 
                        Williamsburg
                    , the 
                        Virginia
                     Council, in an order written probably by Jefferson, made public its determination
                    concerning the treatment that the lieutenant-governor and his aide might expect. The council accused 
                        Hamilton
                     of "inciting the Indians to perpetuate their accustomed cruelties"
                    and of offering "standing rewards for scalps, but… none for prisoners."
                    To implement his policy, he had called a great Indian council to gather at the mouth of the
                        Tennessee River. The Americans found substantiation for their case in one
                    of Hamilton's proclamations left by the warriors with the bodies of frontier patriots after
                    one of their raids. In addition, the council accused DeJean and La Mothe of aiding 
                        Hamilton
                     in inciting this frontier crime wave. After listing the usual British and Indian
                    atrocities against the western settlements, Jefferson took the occasion to expand his indictment to
                    cover the British handling of prisoners. On this issue "the conduct of the British
                    officers, civil and military, has in its general tenor, through the whole course of this war been
                    savage and unprecedented among civilized nations."45 In making his
                    case, of course, Jefferson seized upon every possible item to put the British in the worst light. In
                    stretching the argument to include the "general tenor" of British attitudes, he
                    had done a great deal more. He had, in fact, revealed how profound he believed the argument between
                    Britain and America had become. 
                        Hamilton
                     symbolized this contest between liberty and tyranny, civilization and savagery.
            
               
                  45 "Order of the 
                            Virginia
                         Council Placing Henry Hamilton and Others in Irons," June 16, 1779, in
                        Boyd, Papers of Jefferson, III, 292–94.
            
            
            In his discussion with General Phillips, Jefferson became enmeshed in the issue of
                    Hamilton's capitulation. Believing, as did Jefferson, that 
                        Hamilton
                     had placed himself beyond the law, Clark had demanded unconditional surrender, but he
                    had not possessed sufficient force to insist. As a result, 
                        Hamilton
                     had obtained terms and had marched out of 
                        Vincennes
                     with military honors. The terms, however, did not touch upon the later treatment of the
                    prisoners, nor did they prohibit confinement in the common jail or the wearing of irons. Jefferson
                    interpreted this absence of specific limitations as a license to impose the kind of punishment he
                    believed 
                        Hamilton
                     richly deserved. Phillips argued Hamilton's innocence of the charges and
                    maintained that in any case he could not, because of the formal submission with terms, be dealt with
                    so severely. Opinion at the Continental Congress supported Jefferson's view. So also on
                    first consideration did General 
                        Washington
                    , but 
                        Washington
                     sought professional advice and found that Jefferson's cogent reasoning flew in
                    the face of international usage and would very likely provoke British retaliation. Hence Jefferson
                    changed his policy but not his opinions.46
            
            After his early statement in the council's order, Jefferson dropped any reference to scalp
                    buying. Apparently he lost confidence in the testimony of John Dodge, upon whom the council had
                    relied heavily and who had in great measure been responsible for spreading misinformation about
                    Hamilton's activities. Without Dodge, the scalp-buying accusation rested on thin evidence;
                    consequently, Jefferson stressed Hamilton's guilt for mistreating prisoners and inciting
                    the Indians to "savage" war.
            Jefferson made his point with stark simplicity. By instigating the warriors' rage to kill, 
                        Hamilton
                     himself became a murderer, in fact little different from a "savage."
                    Because Jefferson identified a just society with nature, the issue involved not only the integrity
                    of civil order but the very sanctity of nature. It was not simply the cruelty and brutality of
                    native warfare that 
                  
                     46 William Phillips to Jefferson, July 5, 1779, in Boyd, Papers of Jefferson, III, 25–28; 
                                Washington
                             to Jefferson, July 10, August 6, November 23, 1779, ibid.,
                            30, 61, 198–99; Jefferson to 
                                Washington
                            , July 17, October 2, 1779, ibid., 40–42,
                            99–100; Jefferson to Phillips, July 22, October 2, 1779, ibid.,
                            44–49, 97–99; 
                                Washington
                             to Robert Howe, September 22, 1779, in John C. Fitzpatrick, ed., Writings of George Washington… (39 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1931–1944), XVI, 319. Charles Lee, a professional soldier, was one
                            of the few Americans to register an objection to Jefferson's interpretation; see
                                The Lee Papers, 1782–1811 (Collections of the 
                                    New York
                                 Historical Society, Vol. VII; 
                                New York
                            , 1875), 75–77.
               
                     repelled him, it was that the "savages" in
                    their manner of fighting sought "to extinguish human nature." In response to this
                    threat, he felt no obligation to adhere to the hallowed usages of eighteenth-century war. He had, in
                    effect, reduced the conflict between Britain and America to metaphysics, an insight far removed from
                    the world of politics and prudent policy. In justification for this act of reductionism, he might,
                    with consistency, have appealed to the revolutionary ideology that formed such an important part of
                    American thinking and feeling in the 1770s and 1780s. Jefferson's own expression of that
                    position had not only condensed the principles of political order to a few simple maxims but had
                    couched them in terms of almost ethereal abstraction. If one could believe Jefferson's
                    Declaration, Americans were engaged in recreating the human polity on a scale never attempted in the
                    past, an effort so delicate and fraught with danger as to incite widespread fear of conspiracy. When
                    the principal conspirators, the British, brought in the native warriors, Jefferson's fears
                    were confirmed. The British attacked American liberty and sought the establishment of an unnatural
                    despotism in the New World. The Indians represented nature denied, an unenlightened and
                    "savage" condition of life that rejected the fulfillment of human existence for
                    which the Americans struggled so manfully. Allied, those two forces constituted for Jefferson an
                    intolerable menace to civilization. Thus he felt fully justified in his unorthodox treatment of 
                        Hamilton
                    .47 But Jefferson's tendency to reduce issues to their
                    common denominator obscured the ambivalence in the careers of 
                        Hamilton
                     and Clark over the question of the Indian.
            In the deepest sense, of course, 
                        Hamilton
                     and Jefferson held identical views of the native people. Both believed that Indians
                    were "savages," that their mode of life was the antithesis of civilization.
                    Hamilton's nagging anxieties over his complicity in the attacks on the frontier, his
                    repeated and futile efforts to conform native warfare to British standards, disclosed the importance
                    he attached to the differentiation between civilization and "savagery." His
                    anxieties dissolved at least partially, however, when he confronted real Indians. True enough, the
                    romantic strain in his approach to the continent and its inhabitants led to an emphasis on the
                    violence inherent 
                  
                     47 Jefferson to Theodorick Bland, June 8, 1779, in Boyd, Papers of Jefferson, II, 287; Jefferson to Phillips, July 22, 1779, ibid., Ill, 46.
               
                     in "savagery," but his portraits of individual
                    Indians transcended that generalization. They revealed a genuine interest and even sympathy for the
                    native people. One should not be surprised, therefore, that 
                        Hamilton
                     became an adept practitioner of forest diplomacy and so readily donned native costume
                    or joined the war dance. The American continent had made its mark on 
                        Hamilton
                     and left him deeply divided in his loyalties.
            Not so George Rogers Clark. He never doubted where his loyalties lay. They resided with the
                    revolutionary cause and the frontier people he strove so mightily to defend. And he knew his
                    enemies. These were the "savage" Indians and the conscienceless British who aided
                    their bloody assaults on the white settlements. How then can one explain his curious affinity for
                    native ways? Was it merely that he suffered the fate of all Indian-haters: he became what he
                    despised? This is very likely true, though in Jeffersonian terms the process might have been
                    described differently. An account of Clark's career in the West read like living proof of
                    Jefferson's perception that civilization and "savagery" constituted
                    opposite images of each other. As the frontiersman plunged into the wilderness and left civil ways
                    behind, he risked transformation into the "savage" who opposed him. In defense of
                    civility he became a "savage." Jefferson saw the first point, the defense of
                    civility, but missed the second; hence, he failed to recognize that his friend Clark might have been
                    an even more dangerous enemy of human nature than the "Famous Hair Buyer
                General."
         
         
         
            Factional Conflict in Indiana Politics During The Later New Deal Years, 1936–1940
            
                    Iwan Morgan
                    ∗
                
            Factional conflicts within both the Republican and Democratic parties rocked Indiana politics to its
                    very foundations during the late 1930s. The quarrel between the Paul V. McNutt organization and
                    Senator Frederick Van Nuys nearly rent the Hoosier Democracy asunder. Indeed, at one stage it seemed
                    as if Van Nuys would make common cause with the Republicans in the 1938 midterm elections. The GOP,
                    however, had its own problems. Republican moderates and the strongly conservative Old Guard were
                    locked in mortal combat for control of the party. Factional disputes were nothing new in Indiana;
                    yet, the battles of the Depression era were unusually bitter because they were linked with the
                    political controversies generated by the New Deal. In recent years historians have manifested keen
                    interest in the relationship between the New Deal and the states, but their interpretations of
                    certain issues have differed markedly, while some problems still await full investigation. A study
                    of the Hoosier factional conflicts of the late 1930s can offer some valuable contributions to this
                    debate.
            Two issues are particularly important with regard to the state Democratic parties in the 1930s. James
                    MacGregor Burns has argued that Franklin D. Roosevelt missed an excellent opportunity to liberalize
                    his party during the Depression because he generally remained neutral in state factional disputes.
                    According to this eminent political scientist, bold executive action, capitalizing on the
                    president's immense popularity and 
                  
                     ∗ Iwan Morgan is senior lecturer in the Department of
                            Politics and Government, City of 
                                London
                             Polytechnic, 
                        London, England
                     . He was an exchange teacher at Indiana
                            University-Purdue University at 
                                Fort Wayne
                             in 1979–1980. The research and writing of this essay were undertaken
                            prior to the publication of James H. Madison's study, Indiana through
                                Tradition and Change: A History of the Hoosier State and Its People,
                                1920–1945 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1982).
               
                     his control of federal patronage, would have enabled liberal
                    factions to defeat conservative opponents and so placed the New Deal on secure foundations. In
                    contrast, historians such as James T. Patterson contend that the very nature and organization of
                    most state parties made them resistant to the liberalizing influence of presidential
                        intervention.1 Since Roosevelt deviated from his customary neutrality to
                    side openly with McNutt, Indiana offers a particularly interesting test case for these conflicting
                    hypotheses.
            Inextricably linked with the debate concerning possible liberalization of the Democratic party is the
                    general question of what impact the New Deal made on state politics. In his classic study of the New
                    Deal, William Leuchtenburg argued that Roosevelt revolutionized the agenda of American politics in
                    the 1930s, when political emphasis shifted to socioeconomic issues that generated partisan divisions
                    of a more ideological nature than had been the case for many years past. Nevertheless, many
                    historians doubt that the change was profound at the state level. In their view patronage and
                    personality politics continued to be more important than ideological issues, particularly when
                    Roosevelt's star appeared to wane in the late 1930s.2 An examination of
                    the way in which the Hoosier Democracy made peace in 1939–1940 and the attitude it
                    thereafter adopted toward the New Deal can test the validity of this viewpoint.
            The state Republican parties have attracted less attention from historians than have the Democrats.
                    Given the predominance of the Democratic party on the federal level, this is understandable, but the
                    1930s still constituted a significant era for the GOP. Several national leaders, notably Arthur H.
                    Vandenburg and Alfred M. Landon, hoped that Republican state parties could forge alliances with
                    conservative Democrats to fight the New Deal on a bipartisan basis.3 Nowhere did
                    this 
                  
                     1 James MacGregor Burns, Roosevelt: The Lion and the
                            Fox (
                                New York
                            , 1956), 376–80; James T. Patterson, Congressional
                                Conservatism and the New Deal: The Growth of the Conservative Coalition in Congress,
                                1933–1939 (
                                Lexington
                            , Ky., 1967), 261–87.
                  
                     2 William E. Leuchtenburg, Franklin D. Roosevelt and the
                                New Deal, 1932–1940 (
                                New York
                            , 1963), 326; James T. Patterson, The New Deal and the States:
                                Federalism in Transition (
                                Princeton
                            , 1969); John Braeman, Robert Bremner, and David Brody, eds., The
                                New Deal: The State and Local Levels (2 vols., 
                                Columbus
                            , 1975), II; James L. Sundquist, Dynamics of the Party System:
                                Alignment and Realignment of Political Parties in the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                Washington
                            , 1973), 183–244.
                  
                     3 Patterson, Congressional Conservatism,
                            258–59, 274–75.
               
                     seem more likely to happen than in Indiana, where one Republican
                    faction wanted the party to run Van Nuys as its senatorial candidate in 1938. An investigation of
                    why this move failed can provide important clues to explain the general lack of party realignment in
                    American politics during the Depression. Most Republican leaders at national and state levels were
                    also aware that the party had to make concessions toward reformism if it was to offset the immense
                    electoral popularity of the New Deal during the mid-1930s. Even the Indiana GOP, one of the most
                    conservative of all state parties in the 1920s, finally acknowledged the wisdom of this viewpoint.
                    The Hoosier example therefore makes a good case study of the changes that occurred in state
                    Republicanism during the 1930s. Further study of the Indiana political scene during the decade of
                    the 1930s reveals some possible influences that the factional struggles had on the reemergence of
                    the GOP as the dominant party in Indiana.
            The Democratic factional conflict of 1937–1938 was the culmination of a struggle for the
                    leadership of the Hoosier Democracy. The struggle had commenced when the party had won power in 1932
                    and at various times had involved four different groups, the strongest of which was led by Governor
                    McNutt. McNutt's overriding ambition was to become president, and his rising star attracted
                    support from younger Democrats, certain business interests, and the American Legion, an organization
                    that he had once served as national commander. McNutt also had many allies in the legal profession,
                    an important force in state politics, since he had formerly been dean of Indiana
                    University's Law School.4 Older Democrats tended to support either Van
                    Nuys, who had made many allies during his thirty years of party service, or R. Earl Peters, the
                    state chairman who had done much to revive the party's fortunes following the electoral
                    disasters of the mid-1920s.5 Another group emerged in 1935 when
                    McNutt's patronage secretary, Pleas Greenlee, launched an independent campaign after the
                    state-house refused to endorse his ambitions of obtaining the gubernatorial 
                  
                     4 Robert R. Neff, "The Early Career and Governorship of Paul
                            V. McNutt" (Ph.D. dissertation, Department of History, Indiana University, 1963),
                            36, 75; I. George Blake, Paul V. McNutt: Portrait of a Hoosier Statesman (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1966), 107.
                  
                     5
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, December 8, 1933; 
                                Lebanon
                            , Indiana, Reporter, August 16, 1935.
               
                     nomination. His rebellion gained support from many disappointed
                    office seekers and defectors from the other groups.6
            
            Outsiders found it difficult to comprehend the patterns of this factional mosaic partly because so
                    many groups were involved and partly because the internal divisions were not the product of
                    ideological, social, cultural, or regional factors. Even a veteran politician such as the
                    president's aide, Louis M. Howe, had to confess: "I do not pretend to keep track
                    of what goes on about the Indiana mess!"7 Nonetheless, Hoosier
                    factional conflict had a clear logic insofar as its participants were concerned since it centered
                    upon patronage issues. During the late nineteenth century when the Indiana parties had battled to
                    retain their traditional constituencies and corral the floating vote in a series of closely fought
                    elections, they had found it expedient to build well-organized machines that were adept at
                    mobilizing electoral support. As a result, patronage-oriented politics gained primacy over
                    issue-oriented politics in the Hoosier party system since party workers expected to be rewarded from
                    the spoils of office for their expertise at getting out the vote. Factionalism proved to be an
                    inherent feature of patronage politics, which continued to be the principal concern of the parties
                    even in the twentieth century, because the victors inevitably squabbled over the division of spoils
                    after elections. The power of state party leaders depended greatly on their ability to reward their
                    personal followers, and, therefore, struggles between rivals tended to center upon questions of
                    patronage control rather than political principles.8
            
            Because of the state Democratic party's weakness in the 1920s no faction had established
                    undisputed leadership; it was hardly surprising, therefore, that quarrels about the distribution of
                    spoils flared up almost immediately after the Democrats gained office in 1933. By 1936, however,
                    McNutt had done much to establish his dominance within the Indiana party, a vital step in his quest
                    for the presidency, by increasing his 
                  
                     6
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, April 7, 1935; R. Earl Peters to James A. Farley, October 17, 1935,
                            Box 2, R. Earl Peters Papers (
                                Fort Wayne
                            -
                                Allen County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            ).
                  
                     7 Louis M. Howe to Farley, April 11, 1934, Official File 300, Box 18,
                            Franklin D. Roosevelt Papers (Franklin D. Roosevelt Library, Hyde Park, 
                                New York
                            ).
                  
                     8 Frank O. Munger, "Two Party Politics in the State of
                            Indiana" (Ph.D. dissertation, Department of Political Science, 
                                Harvard
                             University, 1955), 122–26.
               
                     control over state patronage. His government reorganization act
                    of 1933, which reduced the number of state departments from 169 to eight, gave the
                    governor's office unprecedented control over appointments. State employees also had to
                    contribute 2 percent of their income to the newly formed Hoosier Democratic Club, which became
                    NcNutt's personal treasury because he appointed its officers.9 The
                    latter innovation alienated Peters, who wanted the funds to go to the regular party treasury, which
                    he controlled. When McNutt outmaneuvered him on this issue, Peters resigned office to seek the 1934
                    senatorial nomination, confident that he could undermine his rival's growing prestige by
                    winning a first ballot victory.10 By astute use of his new patronage powers the
                    governor was able to sway many delegates who had promised to support Peters into voting for his
                    candidate, Sherman Minton. This defeat eliminated the former state chairman as a leading force in
                    Hoosier politics. McNutt's easy victory surprised Van Nuys, who had remained neutral in the
                    hope that his rivals would weaken each other by having to fight a protracted struggle. To protect
                    his own position the senator now had to challenge McNutt himself by supporting Kirk
                    McKinney's bid to win the 1936 gubernatorial nomination.11
            
            It was at this juncture that the New Deal was sucked into the murky waters of Hoosier factional
                    conflict. All the rival Democratic leaders had already voiced support for Roosevelt's
                    policies in acknowledgement of the president's popularity, but this ideological consensus
                    had not lessened Democratic factionalism. In fact the New Deal had increased the scope for
                    intraparty conflict because the vast expansion of federal jobs in the 1930s added a new layer to the
                    spoils system. At first the Roosevelt administration treated the three main leaders fairly equally,
                    but from 1934 onward it increasingly channelled its burgeoning patronage, especially Works Progress
                    Administration (WPA) jobs, toward McNutt in recognition of his newly established primacy. Already
                    cut off from state jobs, Van Nuys now found that his federal patronage was restricted to a few
                    scraps, mainly control over Home Owners' Loan Corporation (HOLC) posts; consequently, he
                    adopted a new strategy in early 
                  
                     9 Patterson, New Deal and the States,
                            134–36.
                  
                     10
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Times, November 14, 1933; 
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, April 9, 1934.
                  
                     11 Peters to Farley, December 12, 1935, May 28, 1936, Box 2, Peters
                            Papers; 
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, April 23, 1936.
               
                    
                    
                  PRESIDENT FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT AND
                                PAUL V. MCNUTT, 1936
                  Courtesy 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News.
                  
               
                     1936 to warn Roosevelt not to ignore him and to undermine
                    McNutt's standing with the federal government. Breaking his record of strong support for
                    the New Deal, Van Nuys made some speeches that criticized recent federal labor legislation. More
                    seriously, he also charged that Indiana's WPA administrator, 
                        Wayne
                     Coy, had pressured job holders in this agency to support the nomination of
                    McNutt's gubernatorial candidate, M. Clifford Townsend, and that local allies had forced
                    relief workers to run on their county precinct and convention delegate slates.12
            
            Van Nuys's allegations embarrassed Roosevelt rather than McNutt since the president was just
                    about to ask Congress for a massive relief appropriation. An infuriated Harry L. Hopkins, federal
                    relief administrator, commented: "he doesn't have to prove this to make it
                    bad—just the fact a Democratic senator says it!"13 Contrary
                    to Van Nuys's charges, a federal investigation revealed that no jobholders associated with
                    Van Nuys or Greenlee had been dismissed, nor would any admit to having been pressured to support
                    Townsend. No one had been denied relief work for political reasons, and relatively few precinct
                    workers held WPA patronage jobs in the two cities about which Van Nuys had particularly complained, 
                        South Bend
                     and 
                        Evansville
                    . The senator's allies actually defeated McNutt's supporters in the
                    1936 
                        St. Joseph County
                     committee primaries, while the number of 
                        Vanderburgh County
                     committeemen with HOLC posts was larger than the small WPA contingent. Moreover, Van
                    Nuys's charges of financial waste carried little weight when it was discovered that the WPA
                    had lower per capita administrative costs in Indiana than in any state except 
                        Alabama
                    .14 Believing that the senator had unjustly embarrassed the New Deal
                    in order to score points in a state dispute, the Roosevelt administration became appreciably less
                    friendly toward him. Hopkins could not have felt any regret when McNutt telephoned him in July to
                    say that Van Nuys would not be renominated.15
            
            The governor's confidence concerning Van Nuys's defeat seemed justified. McNutt had
                    easily swept aside the challenges 
                  
                     12 Sherman Minton to Farley, August 10, 1936, Official File 300, Box
                            17, Roosevelt Papers; Harry L. Hopkins to 
                                Wayne
                             Coy, April 24, 28, 1936, Box 74, Harry L. Hopkins Papers (Franklin D. Roosevelt
                            Library).
                  
                     13 Hopkins to Coy, April 24, 1936, Box 74, Hopkins Papers.
                  
                     14 Coy, memorandum, April 26, 1936, 
                                Wayne
                             Coy Papers (Franklin D. Roosevelt Library); Hopkins to Frederick Van Nuys, May
                            20, 1936, ibid.
                  
                  
                     15 Paul V. McNutt to Hopkins, July 17, 1936, Box 74, Hopkins
                        Papers.
               
                     of Greenlee and McKinney at the 1936 state nominating
                    convention. Just as in 1934, his expert use of patronage had undermined his opponents'
                    apparent preconvention strength. These proven tactics could be employed against Van Nuys when he had
                    to seek renomination in 1938. As the journalist Maurice Early commented, "delegates, being
                    politicians, usually have some irons in the fire and the arm of the state government is
                        long."16 In 1937 McNutt departed to become high commissioner in the
                    Philippines, confident that in his absence his allies could control affairs under the direction of
                    Frank McHale, his political advisor and promoter. The strategy of awaiting the convention before
                    taking action against Van Nuys changed, however, when the senator played a prominent role in the
                    defeat of Roosevelt's plan to reform the Supreme Court.17
            
            The angry president summoned Governor Townsend to 
                        Washington
                     in July, 1937, to urge him to do something about the senator. This action was the first
                    indication of Roosevelt's intention to purge the leading Democratic conservatives, a policy
                    which reached its climax in the 1938 primary elections. Seizing on what seemed a golden opportunity
                    to legitimize its personal battle with Van Nuys, the McNutt faction launched an immediate attack.
                    Townsend gave the first public expression of the intention to remove the senator when he
                    dramatically informed reporters outside the White House that the Indiana party could not renominate
                    Van Nuys because of his failure to support presidential policies.18 This new
                    strategy proved to be a costly error. Van Nuys's prospects may well have appeared to be
                    hopeless in the face of the combined assault from the White House and the statehouse, but the latter
                    would have been better advised to have kept the quarrel within its original framework as a patronage
                    dispute. Democratic factional controversy had lost its impetus since the 1936 convention because
                    McNutt's ultimate victory seemed inevitable. Roosevelt's intervention breathed new
                    life into the conflict by giving it the ideological dimension of Van Nuys's attitude toward
                    the New Deal. In these circumstances the senator found new sources of support from conservative
                    Democrats, while the McNutt faction 
                  
                     16
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, July 18, 1937.
                  
                     17 Patterson, Congressional Conservatism,
                            120–21; Time, XXX (July 26, 1937), 11.
                  
                     18 Frank McHale to McNutt, July 12, 1937, Paul V. McNutt Papers (Lilly
                            Library, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            ).
               
                     proved ill-equipped to carry the banner for liberalism. As a
                    result Van Nuys managed to escape the fate of McNutt's other opponents.
            Hoosiers' support for the New Deal declined dramatically from mid-1937 on. The unpopularity
                    of the Judiciary Bill, Roosevelt's "court-packing" scheme, provided the
                    initial impetus. Many local Democratic politicians and large numbers of voters who had supported
                    Roosevelt in the previous election regarded Supreme Court reform as a threat to the Constitution.
                    Five Democratic congressmen broke ranks to voice their opposition to the bill, while loyalists like
                    James I. Farley of the Fourth District faced strong criticism from their constituents.19 This outcry encouraged Van Nuys, whose plight had hitherto aroused little public
                    interest, to declare that he would run as an independent if he was denied his party's
                    nomination. His counterattack depicted him as a Jeffersonian Democrat who had thwarted
                    Roosevelt's attempt to subvert the Constitution and bucked McNutt's dictatorial
                    control of the state party.20 This strategy did not entail a direct indictment
                    of the New Deal, a logical tactic since the senator had rendered Roosevelt sterling support prior to
                    1937. Nevertheless, Van Nuys became the rallying point for conservative Democratic opposition to the
                    president's socioeconomic policies in late 1937.
            Rural Democrats, especially those from southern Indiana, tended to be more conservative than their
                    urban counterparts. They had supported the early New Deal because it had had some success in
                    promoting the recovery of the agrarian economy. Indiana farmers became disenchanted after 1935,
                    however, because they felt that federal policies now showed far more concern for industrial recovery
                    and urban relief problems than for their difficulties. Their open break with the New Deal came in
                    the fall of 1937 when the so-called "Roosevelt Recession" led to a decline of
                    commodity prices and aroused fierce resentment of crop restriction policies, high taxes, and federal
                    welfare spending.21 In these circumstances it was inevitable 
                  
                     19
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, July 15, 1937, June 19, 1938.
                  
                     20 "Political Statement by Senator Frederick Van Nuys, March
                            22, 1938," copy in Box 2, Peters Papers; Peters to Farley, November 21, 1938, Box
                            2, Peters Papers; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, June 25, 1938.
                  
                     21 Coy to Farley, October 1, 1936, Box 1094, Democratic National
                            Committee Papers (Franklin D. Roosevelt Library); Louis A. Ludlow to Marvin McIntyre,
                            October 10, 1936, Official File 300, Box 18, Roosevelt Papers; William Gutzwiller to Farley,
                            December 9, 1938, ibid.; 
                                Van
                             Garrett to Farley, December 23, 1938, ibid.; James Flemyng to
                            Farley, December 10, 1938, ibid.
                  
               
                    
                    
                  SENATOR FREDERICK VAN NUYS 1938
                  Courtesy 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star.
                  
                that rural Democrats should regard Van Nuys as the focal point for their opposition to the
                    New Deal. Although the senator did not identify explicitly with agrarian criticism of federal
                    policies, he fuelled its fires by persisting with his allegations concerning McNutt's
                    corrupt use of the WPA, the welfare agency that farmers considered most guilty of waste and
                    discrimination in favor of the cities.22 In view of the nationwide agrarian
                    disillusionment with the New Deal in 1937–1938, the ideological harmony of the Indiana
                    Democrats was bound to falter, but the Van Nuys affair acted as a catalyst which intensified their
                    divisions.
            By mid-1938 it was evident that the senator's independent campaign could draw off so many
                    Democratic votes that the Republicans would win the election. No longer was Van Nuys merely an
                    irritating thorn in the side of the statehouse organization. He had become a major threat to
                    McNutt's ultimate 
                  
                     22
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, June 16, 22, 1938.
               
                     ambition.23 McNutt had to hold his own state
                    in 1938 if he was to be regarded as a serious contender for the Democratic presidential nomination
                    two years later. His prospects of obtaining the nomination would also be hurt by the nationwide
                    publicity that Van Nuys's allegations were bound to attract as the Indiana election
                    campaign gathered momentum. Finally, since Roosevelt now appeared unlikely to purge his conservative
                    opponents, they could exact revenge for Van Nuys by leading anti-McNutt delegations to the 1940
                    national Democratic convention. McNutt therefore decided to compromise. Through a series of
                    telephone calls from Manila, he commanded Townsend to offer their opponent the nomination.24
            
            This decision to support Van Nuys angered Roosevelt for he was still engaged in his own purge
                    strategy and it was widely reported that the senator's victory boosted the morale of
                    several colleagues who faced renomination problems, especially Alva Adams of 
                        Colorado
                    .25 McNutt's climb-down marked the first significant break
                    in his support for Roosevelt's policies. The results of the 1938 elections widened the
                    breach. Although Van Nuys triumphed narrowly, Hoosier Republicans won the secretaryship of state,
                    their first statewide victory since 1928, recaptured six congressional seats, gained control of the
                    lower house of the state legislature, and barely failed to secure a senate majority. All the pundits
                    agreed that the result was attributable to the unpopularity of the New Deal during the
                    "Roosevelt Recession";26 consequently, the McNutt faction
                    decided to distance itself further from the Roosevelt administration in a bid to restore the unity
                    of the state party and regain electoral support.
            The dilution of McNutt's identification with the New Deal did not constitute a significant
                    change in his political principles. Even though McNutt had been one of the best governors of the
                    Depression era, in essence he was a pragmatist who would rarely buck the prevailing political
                    currents. His gubernatorial record was certainly impressive, not least because he 
                  
                     23
                            Ibid., July 1, 3, 1938. Van Nuys also benefited from the McNutt
                            group's failure to find an obvious replacement for him. Sam Jackson, an early
                            choice, was ruled out to appease Peters. The spotlight then fell on Henry F. Schricker, who
                            reluctantly agreed to run but never hid his preference for the 1940 gubernatorial
                            nomination. Ibid., June 1, July 6, 1938.
                  
                     24 McNutt to McHale, July 19, 1938, McNutt Papers.
                  
                     25
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, July 6, 1938.
                  
                     26 Indiana Democratic State Committee, "Result of the Indiana
                            Election, 1938," Official File 300, Box 42, Roosevelt Papers.
               
                     had launched his own anti-Depression measures in 1933 in advance
                    of Roosevelt's, whereas most other state executives had awaited federal action. After
                    restoring the solvency of the state treasury, largely by enacting a gross income tax and reducing
                    the administrative costs of government, he had introduced a series of reforms which included
                    old-age-pension legislation, prohibition of yellow dog contracts, and better relief administration.
                    His government had also cooperated promptly and efficiently with the New Deal programs.27 Without decrying his achievements, it should be noted that he enacted his
                    reform program when there was a desperate need for action; he thus did not encounter any serious
                    opposition from a pliant state legislature. Moreover, his firm support for the New Deal projected
                    him as a potential successor to Roosevelt when the liberal wave was at high tide. When the political
                    climate changed, so did McNutt's commitment to the New Deal, as evidenced by his handling
                    of the Van Nuys affair.
            When McNutt eventually announced his bid for the presidential nomination in 1939, he projected
                    himself as a moderate capable of uniting the warring forces in the national party. Because they had
                    never fully trusted him, neither Roosevelt nor his closest advisers had ever supported
                    McNutt's aspirations. His new position only confirmed their opinion that he was an
                    opportunist. Somewhat true to form McNutt reverted to outright liberalism in 1940, hoping in vain to
                    gain Roosevelt's support for the vice-presidential nomination after the
                    president's third-term intentions had become evident.28
            
            Despite McNutt's reconversion in terms of national politics during 1940, his Indiana allies
                    clung to the course upon which the denouement of the Van Nuys affair had launched them. Nothing
                    illustrates their movement away from a strongly pro-New Deal position better than their strategy to
                    keep the governorship in Democratic hands, their overriding concern in the 1940 elections since this
                    office controlled patronage distribution. In 1936, when Roosevelt's prestige was at its
                    zenith, the McNutt group had hitched its wagon to his star by nominating 
                  
                     27 Neff, "The Early Career and Governorship of Paul V.
                            McNutt," 148–79; Blake, Paul V. McNutt,
                            124–70. One federal official commented that relief in Indiana was the
                            "most orderly and best managed" in the Midwest. Howard Hunter to Hopkins,
                            March 20, 1938, Box 406, Federal Emergency Relief Administration Records (National Archives, 
                                Washington, D.C.
                            ).
                  
                     28 Bernard Donahoe, Private Plans and Public Dangers: The
                                Story of FDR's Third Nomination (
                                South Bend
                            , Ind., 1965), 136–38.
               
                    
                    
                  PAUL V. MCNUTT, HIGH COMMISSIONER TO THE PHILIPPINES, AND GOVERNOR M. CLIFFORD TOWNSEND, 1939
                  Courtesy 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star.
                  
               
                     the liberal Townsend for the governorship. The Indiana Democrats
                    had then focused their campaign almost entirely on the virtues of the New Deal and the need to elect
                    a state administration which would support the president's policies.29
                    Townsend did indeed prove a more liberal governor than McNutt. Whereas McNutt's relations
                    with organized labor had been somewhat frosty, especially after he called out the Indiana National
                    Guard during the 1933 coalfield strikes, Townsend publically identified with the unions'
                    cause. On one occasion he put pressure on a steel company to grant strikers a union contract, and he
                    also added a Department of Labor to the state government setup. Less committed to economy than
                    McNutt, who had built up a treasury surplus of $7,000,000 by 1937, Townsend also
                    increased state expenditure on public works.30 In 1940, however, the McNutt
                    group endorsed the candidacy of Lieutenant-Governor Henry F. Schricker, a moderate conservative of 
                        German
                     descent, who was an advocate of fiscal orthodoxy and had sympathized with Van
                    Nuys's stand against the Judiciary Bill.31
            
            Schricker seemed to be the ideal gubernatorial candidate at a time when the national party
                    leadership's continuing adherence to the New Deal and growing identification with Great
                    Britain in the European war threatened the slim majority that the Indiana Democrats had to defend.
                    Schricker's nomination also restored some unity to the state party. Conservative Democrats
                    considered him an acceptable candidate; he was not closely associated with any particular faction,
                    and he favored a more equitable distribution of patronage than McNutt had hitherto countenanced. His
                    candidacy also enabled the state party to downplay ideological issues by capitalizing on his
                    personal popularity, especially since he faced an obscure Republican opponent in Glenn R. Hillis,
                    mayor of 
                        Kokomo
                    . Schricker's campaign emphasized his proven record in government and his 
                  
                     29 Hoosier Republicans, in turn, concentrated their campaign fire on
                            McNutt's record, notably on issues like the "2% Club" and the
                            controversial beer licenses. In consequence, the Democratic leaders moved closer still
                            toward Roosevelt and pleaded with him to visit Indiana during the campaign. McKinney to
                            Farley, October 19, 1936, Official File 300, Box 17, Roosevelt Papers; Sherman Minton to
                            Farley, September 16, 1936, ibid.
                  
                  
                     30
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Times, July 13, 1937; John D. Barnhart and Donald F. Carmony, Indiana: From Frontier to Industrial Commonwealth (4 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1954), II, 481–82.
                  
                     31 For a description of Schricker see Charles F. Fleming, The White Hat: Henry Frederick Schricker, A Political Biography (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1966), 10–56.
               
                     personal reputation for honesty, symbolized by his famous white
                    hat. These personality issues had a perennial appeal in Indiana politics. In contrast to the 1936
                    election the state organization downplayed presidential policies in the 1940 campaign, except in
                    Democratic urban strongholds such as Gary, 
                        South Bend
                    , and 
                        Evansville
                    . A friend of Roosevelt's complained bitterly, for example, that
                    Indiana's small towns and country districts "haven't had a thing done for
                    the boss."32 This strategy had much in common with that of the 1928
                    campaign, when Hoosier Democrats abandoned Alfred E. Smith as a lost cause, concentrated on winning
                    the governorship, and emphasized the personal virtues of their candidate in the hope of capitalizing
                    on Republican corruption scandals.33
            
            The 1940 campaign suggests that Roosevelt had much less success in changing the agenda of state as
                    opposed to national politics. Hoosier Democratic leaders had the power to eschew ideological or
                    programmatic politics and to focus on state and personality issues whenever such a strategy suited
                    their purposes. The state Democratic organization assumed that the New Deal's sustained
                    popularity in the larger cities would benefit the whole ticket and that Schricker would run far
                    enough ahead of the president elsewhere to ensure his own victory. It could be argued that this
                    strategy was responsible for Roosevelt's failure to carry the state. While Schricker won,
                    the president lost Indiana by only 25,000 votes despite the disadvantage of facing a native son
                    opponent, Wendell L. Willkie. Stronger support from the state organization might have tipped the
                    balance in Roosevelt's favor. Senator Sherman Minton, a "100% New Dealer"
                    who was also beaten, complained of being double-crossed.34 Roosevelt's
                    popularity continued to decline after the election, particularly because his wartime agricultural
                    policies alienated the normally Democratic counties of southern Indiana; consequently, the state
                    organization persisted in avoiding a close identification with his administration in the interests
                    of preserving party harmony and maintaining rural support.
            
               
                  32 Tom O'Malley to James Row, October 15, 1940, Box 1, Hopkins
                        Papers.
               
                  33 Munger, "Two Party Politics," 48.
               
                  34 Minton to William Gibbs McAdoo, November 16, 1940, William Gibbs McAdoo
                        Papers (Library of Congress, 
                            Washington, D.C.
                        ).
            
            
            In view of the outcome of the Van Nuys affair and the resultant Hoosier Democratic policy,
                    Indiana's experience lends weight to the view that Roosevelt had no realistic prospects of
                    creating a liberal party by intervening in state disputes. It is highly unlikely that he would have
                    been more successful had he taken action before 1937 when his prestige was undiminished. Several
                    Hoosiers did implore him to intervene and restore the harmony of the state party in
                    1935–1936, but none occupied a prominent position in the warring factions. The dispute
                    was patronage-oriented at that stage, and the powerful McNutt would have resented any presidential
                    attempt to establish a compromise when he appeared to have total victory within his grasp.
                    Accordingly, the Democratic National Committee chairman, James A. Farley, advised Roosevelt not to
                    involve himself.35 Even had the president acted to help McNutt achieve victory
                    in the early 1930s, he would still not have guaranteed the triumph of liberalism because his
                    prospective allies, as their conduct later indicated, were pragmatists rather than idealists. His
                    eventual intervention, coinciding with the decline of his popularity, only served to demonstrate the
                    dangers of mistiming. McNutt probably had better prospects of transforming the party because he
                    could have used his unprecedented patronage powers to promote committed liberals to leadership
                    positions. He regarded the governorship principally as a stepping-stone to the White House, however,
                    and had no desire to engage in risky ventures to reform the Hoosier Democracy.
            Other factors peculiar to Indiana's political culture also helped to limit the prospects of
                    liberalizing the state Democratic party. In several northern industrial states Democratic urban
                    machines had espoused a pragmatic welfare liberalism during the Progressive era; therefore, the New
                    Deal had a political kinship with influential factions in states such as 
                  Illinois, Massachusetts
               , and 
                        New York
                    .36 In Indiana, however, the Democrats had not succeeded in building
                    comparable political organizations during the early twentieth century. Most Hoosier cities in these
                    years had not attracted sizeable numbers 
                  
                     35 Humphrey Harrington to Farley, April 24, 1935, Official File 300,
                            Box 18, Roosevelt Papers; Fred Feick to Farley, September 10, 1936, Box 1094, Democratic
                            National Committee Papers; Farley to Feick, September 16, 1936, ibid.
                  
                  
                     36 John D. Buenker, Urban Liberalism and Progressive
                                Reform (
                                New York
                            , 1973), discusses the "pragmatic liberalism" of the urban
                            machines during the early twentieth century.
               
                     of the "new" ethnic immigrants who formed the
                    natural constituency of the machines in other states. As a result, rural southern Indiana, where
                    politics were generally conservative, retained its traditional preponderant influence within the
                    Hoosier Democratic party. Despite the growing significance of the urban vote in the New Deal era, no
                    leader rose to prominence in the state party during the 1930s on the basis of his identification
                    with the cities. There were no Hoosier equivalents of James M. Curley, Edward Kelly, or Robert F.
                    Wagner. Moreover, the statehouse tended to favor rural areas and small towns disproportionately in
                    the distribution of spoils. Political organizations in the urban counties therefore lacked the means
                    to develop machines as adept at winning the city vote as their counterparts in other states.
                    Organized labor did not become a major political force in Indiana during the Roosevelt era, even
                    though it helped to liberalize the state Democratic parties in 
                  Minnesota, Wisconsin
               ,
                    and 
                        Michigan
                    . Even in these midwestern states, labor forces, despite facing very weak Democratic
                    organizations, did not attain success until the 1940s when they had support from other interest
                    groups. Indiana's convention system enabled party leaders to block challenges to their
                    power, whereas the primary system of nomination would have allowed labor to exert greater influence.
                    It was also difficult to coordinate Hoosier unions to undertake political action on a statewide
                    basis because there was no all-powerful group, such as 
                        Michigan
                    's United Automobile Workers, nor was union strength concentrated around a
                    major urban center, such as Milwaukee.37
            
            Although the Democrats' factional disputes attracted more public attention because they were
                    the party in power, the Republicans, too, experienced serious internal problems in the late 1930s.
                    The Old Guard, which had dominated the state Republican organization for over thirty years, was
                    opposed to government intervention in the economy and was strongly conservative on social issues, as
                    exemplified by its toleration of Ku Klux Klan influence in the party during the 1920s. This group
                    was led by James E. Watson, a fervent advocate of the business 
                  
                     37 John Fenton, Midwest Politics (
                                New York
                            , 1966), 219–31; Munger, "Two Party Politics,"
                            67–68, 244; William Riker, "The C.I.O. in Politics,
                            1936–1946" (Ph.D. dissertation, Department of Political Science, 
                                Harvard
                             University, 1948), 202–12.
               
                    
                    
                  RAYMOND E. WILLIS, REPUBLICAN CANDIDATE FOR SENATOR FROM INDIANA,
                            IN FRONT OF HIS STEUBEN COUNTY NEWSPAPER OFFICE, 1938
                  Courtesy 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star.
                  
               
                     Republicanism of the Calvin Coolidge era.38
                    Watson's defeat in the 1932 senatorial election and that of his ally, Senator Arthur R.
                    Robinson, in 1934, encouraged younger Republicans to challenge Old Guard leadership. Initially their
                    predominant concern was to obtain greater say in patronage matters.39 Following
                    the crushing Republican defeats in the 1936 elections, the dispute broadened to encompass a debate
                    over political principles. Many Hoosier Republicans became convinced that their party had to modify
                    its conservatism if it was ever to regain office. In these circumstances the most significant
                    challenge faced by the Old Guard came from the faction led by Ralph F. Gates, the Fourth District
                    party chairman. This group drew its main support from northern Indiana, particularly the urban
                    areas, and the Republican Editorial Association, which had broken with Watson over the Klan
                        issue.40 Gates's supporters launched their challenge in 1937; but,
                    although they ousted some Watson allies from the state committee in May, the Old Guard still
                    retained great influence and succeeded in getting its candidates chosen as state chairman and
                    national committeeman in October.41 The struggle between the two groups then
                    centered upon the 1938 senatorial nomination when Watson declared his candidacy and the Gates group
                    supported the 
                        Angola
                     newspaper publisher, Raymond E. Willis. Although historians have generally
                    characterized Willis as a conservative, he regarded himself as a "liberalized
                        Republican."42 A description of his views provides some insight
                    into the politics of the Gates group. Willis advocated a pragmatic acceptance of the most popular
                    aspects of the New Deal. He rejected the old Republican notions that government should not intervene
                    to deal with economic and unemployment problems and thus declared himself in favor of temporary WPA
                    relief aid and contributory social security and old-age pensions.43 Regarding
                    the welfare state in general, Willis acknowledged that "we 
                  
                     38 James Watson, As I Knew Them: Memoirs of James E.
                                Watson, Former 
                                    United States
                                 Senator from Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1936), offers some indication of his political views.
                  
                     39
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, September 20, 1936.
                  
                     40
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, July 8, 1938.
                  
                     41
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, May 15, 1937; 
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            Journal-Gazette, October 31, 1937; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, October 30, 1937.
                  
                     42 Patterson, Congressional Conservatism, 276;
                            Raymond E. Willis to John Moorman, October 4, 1938, Box 78, Raymond E. Willis Papers
                            (Indiana Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ).
                  
                     43 Willis to Neil McAllum, August 12, 1938, Box 78, Willis Papers;
                            Willis to William Carson, August 30, 1938, ibid.
                  
               
                     have to provide a minimum standard of living for those unable to
                    keep up with the American way."44 Even collective bargaining won his
                    approval, and he endorsed labor's right to strike, although he disapproved of the National
                    Labor Relations Board because he thought that it discriminated in favor of the unions when it
                    mediated in industrial disputes.45 Willis's views, it is worth noting,
                    were more progressive than the national Republican party's 1936 platform, which had
                    criticized the unemployment insurance and old-age-pension provisions of the Social Security Act.
                    Significantly, his most direct indictments against New Deal policies in 1938 focused upon
                    Roosevelt's agricultural program and the reciprocal trade treaties, which farmers opposed.
                    Otherwise Willis's criticisms tended to center upon issues such as the costs, corruption,
                    and inefficiency of Democratic relief administration, issues which did not entail a direct challenge
                    to the principles of federal unemployment policies.46
            
            Willis had not, of course, become a full-fledged liberal. His criticisms of the New Deal's
                    inefficiency were often opportunistic and unconstructive. Although he insisted that only the revival
                    of business confidence could generate full economic recovery, he did not explain how the Republicans
                    would help promote a sufficient expansion of the private sector economy to eliminate unemployment;
                    nor did he indicate how they would improve relief administration. While he accepted certain aspects
                    of Roosevelt's programs, he was critical of the New Deal in general. His letters and
                    campaign oratory of 1938 stressed that the benefits of the New Deal were outweighed by its dangerous
                    consequences, which he identified as its encouragement of radicalism—exemplified by the
                    sit-down strikes—the debilitating effect of its bureaucratic regimentation upon the
                    spirit of individual enterprise, and its shackling of private business through the expansion of
                    governmental power and high taxation.47 In essence, Willis, like the majority of
                    the Gates group, was a pragmatic, moderate conservative who accepted that reform was necessary and
                    thought that the Old 
                  
                     44 Willis to Jesse Clark, October 8, 1938, ibid.
                  
                  
                     45 Willis to Otto Lee, July 8, 1938, ibid.
                  
                  
                     46 Austin Stults to Noel Neal, August 4, 1938, ibid.; Omer Whiteman to Willis, September 1, 1938, ibid.; 
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, September 15, 1938; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, October 7, 9, 1938.
                  
                     47 See especially Willis's speeches as reported in the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, October 11, November 4, 1938.
               
                     Guard was out of touch with the realities of the 1930s but still
                    wished to limit the scope and pace of change.
            Initially Watson seemed the stronger candidate, especially when he undermined hopes of northern unity
                    by concluding an agreement with Oliver Starr, the Gary mayor who had also entered the race, to pool
                    delegates on later ballots. A similar deal appeared to be in the offing when Walter Bossert, a
                    former Klan regional leader, declared his candidacy.48 The apparent decline of
                    Willis's prospects led to one of the most interesting episodes of a politically eventful
                    decade. One group within the Gates faction, the 
                        Allen County
                     Republicans, proposed that the party should nominate Van Nuys as its senatorial
                    candidate.
            Several nationally influential figures, such as Alfred M. Landon and publisher Frank Gannett, had
                    expressed hopes that Van Nuys would accept a Republican draft. The bipartisan opposition to the
                    Judiciary Bill and Roosevelt's purge strategy had raised their hopes for a national
                    coalition between conservative Democrats and their party to oppose New Deal liberals.49
                    
                        Allen County
                     Republicans had a more limited objective. Their overriding concern in proposing Van
                    Nuys's candidacy was to ensure that Watson did not win the nomination and thereby restore
                    the dominance of the Old Guard in the state party.50 A curious mixture of Irish
                    Catholics and 
                        German
                     Lutherans held the leadership of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's Republicans; therefore, it was hardly surprising that they were desperately
                    anxious to defeat Watson, whose nativist prejudices and former acceptance of Klan influence had
                    earned their enmity.51 The 
                        Allen County
                    -
                        Fort Wayne
                     group also considered Old Guard conservatism to be unrealistic, and they had
                    demonstrated the wisdom of making concessions to the prevailing political climate when they
                    withstood the urban trend favoring Democrats to win control of city hall in 1934. Accordingly, they
                    acknowledged the need for emergency federal relief aid and certain social reforms and accepted
                    labor's right to organize as "ordinary justice."52
            
            
               
                  48
                        
                            Fort Wayne
                        
                        News-Sentinel, June 30, 1938.
               
                  49 Patterson, Congressional Conservatism,
                        263–87.
               
                  50 John Morris to Willis, June 1, 1938, Box 78, Willis Papers; Willis to
                        Morris, June 3, 1938, ibid.
               
               
                  51 The names of the leaders indicate the ethnic mixture: Harry Hogan, Dan
                        Flanagan, Walter Helmke, and Harry Baals.
               
                  52 Harry Hogan to Charles A. Halleck, September 8, 1938, Charles A.
                        Halleck Papers (Lilly Library, Indiana University).
            
            
            
               Reproduced from 
                            Fort Wayne
                        
                        News-Sentinel, July 15, 1938, p. 6. Courtesy 
                            Allen County
                         Public Library.
            
            In June, 1938, this group, speaking through the influential 
                        Fort Wayne
                    
                    News-Sentinel, broadcast their proposal. It received little support because, other
                    Republicans soon pointed out, the party would, in effect, be without a candidate if the Democrats,
                    who convened later, also nominated Van Nuys. The 
                        Fort Wayne
                     group then called for a postponement of the Republican convention until after the
                    opposition had met. The only counties to support this idea were Porter, Starke, and 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , where newspaper proprietors friendly with the News-Sentinel's owner had great influence in the local Republican organization.53
                     Gates and the other northerners remained faithful to Willis.
                    Hoping to increase his opponents' disarray, Watson initially allowed some of his
                    supporters, notably state chairman Arch Bobbitt, to express vague interest in a Van Nuys coalition
                    but then personally condemned the proposal just before the convention met.54
            
            Despite the hopes of several nationally important figures, Indiana did not provide the first stimulus
                    for a realignment of the party system in 1938. Hoosier coalitionists, in fact, constituted only a
                    small group within one of the state's Republican factions. The coalition proposal faced
                    overwhelming opposition from most county chairmen, who complained that Van Nuys would not help their
                    local and congressional tickets, which faced partisan opponents. They also disliked the implications
                    of bipartisanship regarding the distribution of patronage. Many Republicans noted, too, that because
                    Van Nuys's voting record was "95% pro New Deal" he seemed ill-suited to
                    lead a campaign against Roosevelt's policies.55 The senator himself
                    offered the coalitionists little encouragement, declaring on several occasions that he was
                    "too much of a Democrat" to join forces with the Republicans, a good indication of
                    his confidence about his eventual renomination.56 McNutt probably hoped that the
                    senator would accept a Republican draft—which action would have exposed him to calumny as
                    a turncoat—for the former governor conceded Van Nuys's renomination immediately
                    on learning of Willis's selection by the GOP. Just before the convention Gates had managed
                    to outflank the Watson-Starr alliance by negotiating an agreement whereby the other three candidates
                    pooled their delegates in favor of Willis after the first ballot. The 
                        Fort Wayne
                     group terminated their maneuvers immediately on learning of this agreement.57
            
            If Watson's defeat removed the greatest threat to the emergence of moderate Republicanism,
                    Willis's nomination still did not ensure the primacy of the Gates faction. The only clear
                    result of the convention was that it reaffirmed the power of party regularity and the impotence of
                    the Klan, for Bossert won least delegate support. The leadership issue was unresolved 
                  
                     53
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, June 23, 1938.
                  
                     54
                            Ibid., June 12, 26, 1938.
                  
                     55 Willis to John Morris, June 3, 1938, Box 78, Willis Papers; Willis
                            to Hilton Hornaday, June 13, 1938, ibid.; Willis to Hugh Butler, July 2, 1938, ibid.
                  
                  
                     56
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, June 25, 1938.
                  
                     57
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, June 30, 1938.
               
                     since the northerners lost the battle for the other
                        nominations.58 Developments after the convention, however, soon tipped the
                    balance in favor of the Gates faction.
            In August, 1938, the morale of the Hoosier Republican party received a much-needed lift when the
                    famous Cornfield Conference was held at Homer E. Capehart's farm. Although the state,
                    regional, and national leaders who addressed the gathering represented a variety of viewpoints, the
                    Indiana party as a whole received its most direct exposure to date to the views of Republicans who
                    advocated a pragmatic acceptance of some New Deal measures. Not only did the publicity spotlight
                    fall upon Willis, but Glenn Frank, chairman of the Republican Program Committee, and Capehart
                    himself, though not yet committed to a political career, spoke of the need for governmental action
                    on certain economic and social issues.59 The Cornfield Conference thus
                    undoubtedly helped the cause of moderate Republicanism in Indiana, but it was the outcome of the
                    1938 elections that provided the decisive boost to moderates' fortunes.
            While rural Republicans focused their campaign against federal farm policy, the urban county
                    organizations found it expedient to direct their fire against the shortcomings of federal relief and
                    welfare programs, a particularly potent criticism since Indiana's WPA allocation had
                    received severe cuts before the onset of the recession. County chairmen advised Willis not to
                    criticize the WPA in principle but to attack instead the inadequacy of relief work and wages.60 Republicans also focused attention on allegations that a large proportion of
                    WPA funds was spent on unnecessary bureaucracy in order to provide patronage jobs for Democrats. It
                    is likely that Indiana's WPA did not function as efficiently as usual during the recession
                    because, as one official complained, so much of its energy was devoted to investigating Republican
                    allegations of maladministration.61 Seeking to blunt these charges, the WPA
                    appointed Republicans to some agency posts, but they often used their 
                  
                     58
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, July 9, 1938.
                  
                     59 William B. Pickett, "The Capehart Cornfield Conference and
                            the Election of 1938: Homer E. Capehart's Entry into Politics," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXIII (December, 1977), 267–70.
                  
                     60
                            
                                Clay County
                             Republican Party to Willis, August 20, 1938, Box 78, Willis Papers; Cullen
                            Squier to Willis, undated, ibid.
                  
                  
                     61 Hunter to Aubrey Williams, October 4, 1938, Box 610, Works Progress
                            Administration Records (National Archives, 
                                Washington, D.C.
                            ).
               
                    
                    
                  Reproduced from the 
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, July 19, 1938, p. 6. Courtesy 
                                Fort Wayne
                             Public Library.
                positions to spread disaffection among relief labor regarding work conditions. Most
                    pundits agreed that the Republicans won a substantial share of the WPA vote in the urban areas,
                    particularly in 
                        Fort Wayne
                     where the maladministration was most blatant. Republican candidates also won the
                    endorsement of the Townsend Clubs by approving the clubs' old-age-pension proposals in
                    principle. These senior citizens' lobbying organizations were very active in Indiana and
                    were thought to have tipped the balance in four close congressional races, including the contests in
                    those districts which contained 
                        South Bend
                     and 
                        Terre Haute
                    . It was small wonder, therefore, that several 
                    Democratic county chairmen complained that the opposition had out-New Dealed them.62
            
            In some ways a new Republican party emerged out of the factional and electoral battles of 1938. The
                    party's political views had changed because it now realized the wisdom of adopting a more
                    pragmatic approach to the New Deal than the old conservative leaders had countenanced. Although
                    Willis won a clear majority of the rural vote in 1938 by capitalizing on agrarian antipathy toward
                    federal farm policy, it was equally significant that he regained much of the ground lost by the
                    Republicans in the small towns and the cities in the Democratic landslides of 1932 and 1936. Indeed,
                    it was widely believed that only vote fraud in 
                        Lake County
                     had denied him overall victory, for Van Nuys won by only 5,000 votes, over 200,000 less
                    than his 1932 majority. Willis's good showing justified the contention of the Gates group
                    that by accepting the most popular features of the New Deal and concentrating their fire on its less
                    successful policies the Republicans could do much to neutralize Roosevelt's appeal in
                    Indiana. Having therefore proved that orthodox conservatism was out of touch with the conditions of
                    the 1930s, younger elements were finally able to wrest control from the Old Guard and give the
                    Republican party a new leadership.
            The changes of 1938 were important but limited. While the Gates faction did not retract its previous
                    acceptance of certain liberal reforms, neither did it use its new influence to prod the party into
                    making further concessions to New Deal policies. Pragmatic conservatism continued to be the basis of
                    Republican politics, and the political climate after 1938 did not require a more liberal approach
                    than that adopted in the midterm elections. The Republicans also had to be careful that their
                    pragmatic attitude toward reform, which appealed mainly to the urban electorate, did not offend
                    their rural supporters, many of whom remained strongly antipathetic to the New Deal. This was
                    particularly the case regarding the WPA. Hoosier farmers grew more hostile than ever to this agency
                    in 1939–1940, expressing resentment that it deprived them of cheap seasonal labor and
                    that the federal government overtaxed rural areas to 
                  
                     62 Indiana Democratic State Committee, "Result of the Indiana
                            Election, 1938," Official File 300, Box 42, Roosevelt Papers; Joseph Suelzer to
                            Farley, December 22, 1938, ibid.; Glenn Griswold to Farley, December 31,
                            1938, Official File 300, Box 18, ibid.
                  
               
                    
                    
                  Reproduced from 
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, July 20, 1939, p. 6. Courtesy 
                                Allen County
                             Public Library.
                pay for urban-oriented relief programs.63 Sensing the growing
                    frustration of the electorate at the sluggish rate of recovery both of agriculture and industry in
                    Indiana, the Republicans tended to be more directly critical of the New Deal in their 1940 campaign
                    than two years previously by focusing attention on Roosevelt's failure to restore economic
                    prosperity. Willis, 
                  
                     63 So strongly did farmers dislike the WPA that Van Nuys felt obliged
                            to vote for a reduction of federal relief appropriations in 1939. He was one of only two
                            Democratic senators from predominantly urban states to do so. The other was Scott Lucas of 
                                Illinois
                            . See Patterson, Congressional Conservatism, 297.
               
                     who ran again, attacked his opponent, Sherman Minton, as a
                    "100% New Dealer." At first he was even wary of discussing international problems
                    lest he deflect attention from the issue of the New Deal economy.64
            
            The limits of change in the Hoosier Republican party were underlined in the early 1940s when a group
                    of Wendell Willkie's liberal supporters tried to gain power. Willkie's views,
                    especially his internationalist ideals, were too liberal for many of the Gates faction to stomach.
                    An open break developed when some Willkeites ran a slate, albeit unsuccessfully, in the 
                        Allen County
                     primaries of 1942.65 The comprehensive defeat of Charles La
                    Follette's bid for the 1946 senatorial nomination only confirmed the weakness of the
                    liberal Republicans. The pragmatic conservatism of the Gates faction continued to exert a
                    significant influence upon Hoosier politics. In the 1940s the young senator, William E. Jenner,
                    assumed Watson's mantle and rekindled the ideological fervor of the party's right
                    wing. Jenner's rise led to renewed factional conflict during the late 1940s and 1950s when
                    the Gates group, which had never forgotten the lessons of the Depression era concerning the virtues
                    of moderate politics, strove to limit Jenner's influence.66
            
            The results of the 1940 election confirmed that the Republicans had effectively reestablished their
                    ascendancy over the Democrats in Hoosier politics. A recent study has indicated that a two-fold
                    electoral realignment occurred in Indiana during the 1930s when "urbanite, working-class
                    and ethnically identified voters" moved into the Democratic camp and Republicans gained
                    increasing support from the rural areas and the small towns.67 The impact that
                    the internal party battles had on electoral behavior in the late 1930s cannot be measured with any
                    exactitude; nevertheless, it is possible to offer some 
                  
                     64 Willis to Chase Harding, September 2, 1940, Box 79, Willis Papers.
                            Willis also gave greater emphasis to anticommunist issues than in previous electoral
                            campaigns of the 1930s. He repeatedly told his audiences that Earl Browder, the Communist
                            party's leader, and Harry Bridges, the longshoremen's union leader who
                            consistently followed the Communist line, supported the New Deal. 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, October 18, November 2, 1940.
                  
                     65
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            News-Sentinel, May 6, 1942. Gates personally remained friendly with
                            Willkie. See Gates to Willkie, November 7, December 12, 1942, Willkie Papers.
                  
                     66
                            
                                Fenton
                            , Midwest Politics, 69–73.
                  
                     67 Charles S. Hyneman, Richard C. Hofstetter, and Patrick F.
                            O'Connor, Voting in Indiana: A Century of Persistence and Change (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1979), 115–17.
               
                     brief suggestions as to the likely effect of the factional
                    struggles and their outcome on the parties' electoral support.
            Since agrarian disillusion with the New Deal was nationwide, Democratic factionalism was evidently
                    only an incidental factor in the alienation of the farm vote. Although rural Democrats supported Van
                    Nuys in his battle with McNutt and Roosevelt, he still ran badly in the agricultural areas in 1938,
                    particularly in the corn belt counties. The statehouse's close identification with
                    Roosevelt in 1937–1938 probably increased the midterm ticket's loss of rural
                    support to a small extent. When the state party regained some unity by distancing itself from the
                    New Deal in 1940, Schricker ran ahead of Roosevelt in most rural counties. While his lead usually
                    amounted at best to a few hundred votes, these small margins still proved crucial in the tightly
                    contested election.68
            
            The outcome of the factional battles arguably had more impact on the urban vote. Indiana was one of
                    only two predominantly urban states which Roosevelt failed to carry in 1940. Having gained 62
                    percent of the votes cast in the seven most urban counties in 1936, he won only 52.9 percent four
                    years later and actually failed to carry 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . His modest urban majorities did not counterbalance his heavy losses in the rural areas
                    and small towns. This decline was attributable to several factors: Roosevelt's foreign
                    policy had alienated 
                        German
                    -Americans; the middle classes blamed the Democrats for encouraging trade union
                    militancy; and many labor voters expressed their frustrations about the sluggish pace of industrial
                        recovery.69
            
            Factional battles also undoubtedly had an impact on the decline of Democratic support in the
                    particular case of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . Internal strife had seriously weakened the 
                        Allen County
                     Democratic party. Because Earl Peters had controlled the local organization until 1938,
                    McNutt had starved it of 
                  
                     68 Rural counties are defined in this context as those counties not
                            containing towns with populations over ten thousand. In thirteen southern rural counties
                            that had gone Republican three times or less in presidential elections between 1892 and
                            1936, Schricker's total vote was over two thousand greater than
                            Roosevelt's. His poll in the twenty-five northern and central rural counties that
                            the president had carried in the two previous elections was four thousand ahead of
                            Roosevelt's. See Edgar E. Robinson, They Voted for Roosevelt: The
                                Presidential Vote, 1932–1944 (
                                Stanford
                            , 1947), 85–89; Robert J. Pitchell, Indiana Votes:
                                Election Returns for Governor, 1852–1956, and Senator,
                            1914–1958 (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1960), 52–53.
                  
                     69 "1940 County Polls—Indiana," Box 1170,
                            Democratic National Committee Papers.
               
                     patronage. Meanwhile the Republicans had used their occupancy of
                    city hall and consequent control over municipal jobs to build a powerful machine that was very
                    efficient at getting out the vote.70 Moderate Republicans, who had gained power
                    in mid-decade, also had much success in winning votes from groups who had supported Roosevelt in
                    1936. One Democrat calculated that his party had won less than 20 percent of the WPA vote in
                        1938.71 The GOP also built up good relations with local labor by adopting
                    moderate attitudes toward union rights, organizing Labor for Republicans clubs, and publicizing the
                    fact that Mayor Harry W. Baals had a union background. In 1938 Republicans also elected the first
                    black candidate in 
                        Allen County
                     history, which fact helped the party retain the support of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's black Republicans. In 1940 Willkie carried six of the seven primarily black
                    precincts. Since Roosevelt carried only seven of the city's fifty-seven precincts in 1940,
                    it is evident that Republican strength was not based entirely on 
                        Fort Wayne
                    's 
                        German
                    -American vote.72
            
            In the other main urban counties in Indiana the Republicans appear to have made few converts from the
                    New Deal coalition in 1940 as Roosevelt's vote held up well in numerical terms in
                    comparison to 1936. Nevertheless, some connection between the emergence of moderate Republicanism
                    and the increased voter turn-out in 1940 seems evident. Indiana had, in fact, experienced a voter
                    participation surge in the previous presidential elections of the New Deal era. This development
                    interrupted what has become a century-long pattern of declining turn-out and initially benefited the
                    Democrats rather than the Republicans.73 As a recent study has noted, Democratic
                    success in 1932 and 1936 was not wholly attributable to the New Deal's conversion of
                    Republican supporters but also owed much to the activation of voters not previously in the
                    participating 
                  
                     70 Alexander Campbell to McNutt, July 29, 1935, Box 2, Peters Papers;
                            James Flemyng to Farley, December 13, 1938, Official File 300, Box 42, Roosevelt Papers.
                  
                     71 Samuel Cleland to Daniel Roper, November 14, 1938, copy, Official
                            File 300, Box 18, ibid.
                  
                  
                     72 Former Congressman E. Ross Adair, who was active in local politics
                            in the late 1930s, outlined Republican strategy to the author in an interview in April,
                            1980.
                  
                     73 Paul Kleppner, "Searching for the Indiana Voter: A Review
                            Essay," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXVI (December, 1980),
                            351–55.
               
                     electorate.74 Turn-out in the New Deal era,
                    however, peaked in 1940, benefiting the Republicans on this occasion.75
            
            Turn-out appears to have been especially high in the urban areas. A crude indication of this is
                    provided by the fact that the actual numbers of votes cast in these counties in the 1940
                    presidential election was 12.9 percent greater than in 1936, whereas the increase was only 7.4
                    percent for the state as a whole. Accordingly, the large percentage of decline in
                    Roosevelt's share of the poll in the seven main urban counties only converts into a
                    numerical loss of some 14,000 votes in comparison to his 1936 showing. On the other hand, Willkie
                    gained 100,000 votes more than Landon's tally in 1936 and Hillis 83,000 more than the
                    previous Republican gubernatorial candidate. It seems probable that the increased Republican vote
                    was largely attributable to the reactivation of habitual supporters who had abstained in 1936. The
                    presence of a native-son candidate in Willkie was doubtless an important factor in this development,
                    but it does not seem unreasonable to suggest that the emergence of the "new"
                    Republican party from the factional battles of 1937–1938 was also partly responsible. In
                    other words, many voters who habitually supported the party had abstained in the 1930s because they
                    could not reconcile themselves either to the New Deal or to Old Guard conservatism in the context of
                    the Depression but could now identify with a moderate Republicanism that accepted the need for
                    limited reforms.
            Factional conflict had subsided by 1940 because both parties had been able to resolve their principal
                    disputes. In the Democratic case McNutt's allies retained effective control of the party,
                    but they had been forced to accommodate their opponents' demands for more equitable
                    distribution of patronage and to distance themselves from Roosevelt. It was evident that the New
                    Deal had not transformed the Hoosier Democracy, which continued to show more interest in
                    patronage-oriented politics than ideological issues despite the tribulations of the Depression.
                    Roosevelt could probably have done little to change this state of affairs. "To the victor
                    the spoils" was still the 
                  
                     74 Hyneman, Hofstetter, and O'Connor, Voting in
                                Indiana, 111.
                  
                     75
                            Ibid., 27, calculates that 80.1 percent of the eligible electorate voted.
                            Walter D. Burnham, Critical Elections and the Mainsprings of American
                            Politics (
                                New York
                            , 1970), 196, calculates a turn-out of 81.1 percent. Both agree, however, that
                            this has been the only election since 1916 when over 80 percent of the eligible Hoosier
                            electorate voted.
               
                     guiding principle of the Democratic party, as it was also for
                    the Republicans. There can be little doubt that the uncertainties of bipartisan patronage
                    distribution constituted a major impediment to the development of coalitionism in 1938.
            This is not to say that the New Deal's impact on Indiana politics was unimportant, merely
                    that it was limited rather than radical. The triumph of the Republican moderates was inextricably
                    bound up with the emergence of a new political consensus in Indiana during the Depression. By 1940
                    nearly all the leading figures of both parties, admittedly with varying degrees of enthusiasm,
                    accepted some of the New Deal's basic principles. Politicians endorsed policies that they
                    would not have countenanced a decade earlier. Some degree of federal intervention to promote
                    economic recovery was now acceptable to them; so was federal unemployment relief; so was a moderate
                    extension of trade union rights; and, probably most important of all because it implied the
                    permanence of the welfare state, so was social security legislation. In this sense Indiana was in
                    tune with nationwide trends; yet, both parties remained pragmatic in their attitudes toward
                    reformism. Electoral disasters suffered by the Old Guard, not newfound idealism, prodded the GOP to
                    endorse certain reforms; consequently, the extent of change to which Republicans would agree was
                    dependent on the ongoing electoral success of the New Deal. Even the Democrats, who had happily
                    clung to Roosevelt's coattails from 1934 to 1936, quickly relinquished this grasp when the
                    going got rough from 1938 to 1940. The state organization was not prepared to identify with those
                    New Deal measures that, regardless of their merit, it thought were electoral liabilities and that
                    threatened Democratic retention of state offices controlling patronage distribution. This
                    disaffection applied in particular to the unpopular farm program, the urban orientation of relief
                    following the "Roosevelt Recession," and the growth of union rights to the point
                    where labor's radical militants appeared to have the support of the New Deal. By 1940 both
                    parties concurred as to the limits of the new consensus, and the factional conflicts of
                    1937–1938 had done much to effect this agreement. Many features of the old party system
                    endured the challenge of the Depression and continued to exert a significant influence on Hoosier
                    politics for years afterward, coexisting comfortably with the changes that had occurred during the
                    1930s. In Indiana, therefore, continuity appears to be as important as change in American state
                    politics during the New Deal era.
         
         
         
            Louis Riel and Oliver P. Morton: The Oddest Couple
            
                    Helen Jean M. Nugent
                    ∗
                
            A letter of October 31, 1875, written in the hand of Louis Riel to Indiana Senator Oliver P. Morton,
                    offers an intriguing puzzle for Canadian-American scholars.
            
               
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Washington D.C.
                                 
                              
                           
                                    31st of October. 1875.
                                
                        Honorable. O. P. Morton.
                        Mister Senator,
                        I have to wright to you, I must say. My wish is to acknowledge very particularly, the
                                    honour which you have done to me, in hearing me, in treating me so well, when I had
                                    come to you, alone and without any introduction.
                        The high rank you have in the Esteem as well as in the Senate of the great american
                                    people tells me how to appreciate the interviews you have kindly granted to me.
                        Perhaps it is not entirely out of place to say, Mister Senator, that, during my visit
                                    to 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , I have been so slow in developping you my plan, I felt this time such
                                    a difficulty to expres my thoughts in english, that I caused you to beleive my plan
                                    impossible. The fact is, I have only shown you the skeleton of it. I have exhibited
                                    none of the details which would have made it look different, Your objections are
                                    sound. But I am not discouraged They are foreseen in my plan. As I told you I hope
                                    the divine 
                                        Providence
                                     will help me. My interviews with you, though unsuccesfull, I consider
                                    them as so much done towards succes. You have accorded several interviews, you have
                                    been very endulgent.
                        Mister Senator, I keep your name amongst those of my most respected friends.1
                        
                     
                  
                In this letter Riel writes of a plan that he had presented in previously held personal
                    interviews with Morton. Collusion between Riel, who had led two rebellions against the government
                        
                  
                     ∗ Helen Jean M. Nugent teaches Canadian history and 
                                United States
                             history at the 
                                Columbus
                            , Indiana, campus of Indiana University-Purdue University 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                  
                     1 Louis Riel to Oliver P. Morton, draft, October 31, 1875, Louis Riel
                            Collection, number 316 (Provincial Archives of 
                                Manitoba
                            , Winnipeg).
               
                    
                    
                  LOUIS "DAVID" RIEL
                  
                  Courtesy Glenbow Archives, Glenbow-Alberta Institute, Calgary, Alberta, 
                                Canada
                            .
               
                     of 
                        Canada
                    , and Morton, a leading Republican Radical who had tenaciously supported the Union
                    against southern rebellion, strains the bounds of credulity. Even against the background of the
                    post-Civil War decade, a period of scandalous corruption and many shady deals, correspondence
                    between these two men is astonishing. Unfortunately, no references to Riel's letters or
                    plans have been found in extant Morton papers. Riel's writings, however, indicate that the
                    Métis cast Morton in his hopes and dreams for a Métis province that would
                    negotiate through strength for entrance into the Dominion of 
                        Canada
                     or, perhaps, remain outside the Dominion as a colony of Victoria's English
                    crown.
            Canadian history contains no more perplexing enigma than the complex character of Riel and his
                    leadership of the half-breed French and Indian people in 
                        Canada
                     in two uprisings against the fledgling Dominion government. Riel first appeared on the
                    national scene in 1869 as "secretary" then "president" of a
                    self-proclaimed "provisional government" formed to challenge the government of
                    John A. Macdonald, which was attempting to extend the Dominion of 
                        Canada
                     beyond the 
                        Ontario
                     border into what is today 
                        Manitoba
                    .2 In 1884 Riel returned from exile in the 
                        Montana
                     territory once more to lead the Métis in a challenge to the government of
                    Sir John A. Macdonald—this time over Canadian expansion into the present-day area of
                        Saskatchewan.3
            
            
               
                        Canada
                     takes great pride in claiming evolution, rather than revolution, as the source of
                    self-government. A figure who led two uprisings within fifteen years would thus be regarded 
                  
                     2 After formation of the Dominion of 
                                Canada
                             in 1867, the Hudson's Bay Company had agreed to surrender claim to
                            certain western lands to the new government. Half-breed Métis and native Indians
                            had been squatting on these lands, and led by Riel, they resisted governmental efforts to
                            survey the territory in preparation for the formation of the new province. The government in 
                                Ottawa
                             refused to recognize the Métis' claims and sent troops to
                            suppress this Red River Rebellion in 1870. Riel went into exile in the 
                                United States
                            .
                  
                     3 In 1884 the Métis were again threatened by westward
                            expansion, this time by the Canadian Pacific Railway and the resulting slaughter of buffalo.
                            They recalled Riel to lead the North West Rebellion attempt, which effort was quelled by the
                            Canadian government. Riel was found guilty of treason and hanged in 1885. Strictly speaking,
                            the action in Manitoba was not a "rebellion" due to the lack of certainty
                            over duly constituted authority. See Joseph Kinsey Howard, Strange Empire:
                                Louis Riel and the Métis People (
                                Toronto
                            , 1974), 113. In 1884 the 
                                Northwest Territories
                             had a recognizable form of authority, and Riel was subject to the charge of
                            high treason. See D. H. Brown, "The Meaning of Treason in 1885," Saskatchewan History, XXVIII (Spring, 1975), 65–73.
               
                     as dangerous, deranged, or demonic—and Riel has been
                    described as each.4 The Macdonald government, acquiescing in if not abetting
                    Riel's stateside exile after the Red River uprising was ended in 1870,
                    branded him as dangerous and charged him with high treason at the 1885 trial that followed his
                    second revolt. Riel's friends knew that conviction meant death and realized that his
                    actions had often seemed to lack rational explanation. They were strong in urging Riel's
                    defense upon grounds of insanity by reminding the court of his two years in asylum and his seeming
                    mental instabilities. Priests of the Roman Catholic church in French 
                        Canada
                    , aghast at Riel's claims of divine mission and his rambling verbal attacks
                    upon the hierarchy that he had once studied to join, tried to diminish his prestige among the
                    Métis by reminding parishioners that his statements and claims were heretical and
                    inspired by the devil rather than divinity.
            The hanging of Riel in Regina, in the present-day province of Saskatchewan, did not put an end to
                    this controversy. Instead, the government created a martyr for the Métis people, and
                    because Riel was a francophone and a Roman Catholic of Quebec heritage, he also became a champion
                    for generations of Quebec nationalists. 
                        Ontario
                     anglophones, incensed by the execution of Protestant Orangeman Thomas Scott in 1870 and
                    suspicious of any who dared challenge the dream of the Union Jack flying a mari usque
                        ad mare, viewed Riel as a traitorous heathen who had gotten his just and fair punishment
                    under the nation's laws. In recent years Riel's martyrdom has taken on new
                    significance as the Métis seek rights under Canadian law as a native minority. The
                    one-time leader of the "half-breed" nation is now a champion of aboriginal rights
                    despite the fact that his heritage was at most one-eighth Indian.
            
               
                  4 Varying views of Riel are presented in Hartwell Bowsfield, ed., Louis Riel: Rebel of the Western Frontier or Victim of Politics and Prejudice? (
                            Toronto
                        , 1969), George H. Needler, Louis Riel: The Rebellion of 1885 (
                            Toronto
                        , 1957), and Robert W. W. Robertson, The Execution of Thomas Scott
                        (Don Mills, 
                            Ontario
                        , 1968). In addition, a number of articles dealing with Riel's sanity have
                        been written. Particularly good on his pretrial state is E. R. Markson, "The Life and
                        Death of Louis Riel: A Study in Forensic Psychiatry [Part I], A Psychoanalytic
                        Commentary," Canadian Psychiatric Association Journal, X (August,
                        1965), 246–52.
            
            
            Riel's career has been studied and chronicled from every angle in hundreds of books and
                    articles during the past century.5 One of the most unusual of many bizarre
                    episodes was the Métis leader's intense faith in Morton as a source of aid and
                    assistance. Several works have documented the Morton connection in passing, but none has dealt with
                    the incongruity of the choice. No currently available book or article implies that Morton was in any
                    way sympathetic to Riel or to his cause. In fact, nothing in Morton's personal papers
                    suggests that he even knew of Riel beyond discussions on the Senate floor.6
                    Riel's letter, however, indicates that they had met at least twice and talked at length.
            Morton, as Civil War governor of Indiana, was well known for his prompt and loyal championing of the
                    Union cause and for his condemnation of the southern rebellion. Although a Democrat in his early
                    career, Morton conclusively severed his ties to that party after the Wilmot Proviso controversy, and
                    he attended the 
                        Pittsburgh
                     convention of 1854 that marked the Republicans' emergence as a force in
                    national politics. In the Senate, after 1867, Morton's attitudes toward the readmittance
                        
                  
                     5 Alan F. J. Artibise, Western 
                                    Canada
                                 Since 1870: A Select Bibliography (Vancouver, 1978) deals with the
                            Riel rebellions in section 2, pages 62–70. For all aspects of the history of the
                            Métis people, see John W. Friesen and Terry Lusty, The
                                Métis of 
                                    Canada
                                : An Annotated Bibliography (
                                Toronto
                            , 1980). Readers who are unfamiliar with Riel and the Métis uprisings
                            will profit especially from George F. G. Stanley, Louis Riel (
                                Toronto
                            , 1963); Howard, Strange Empire; and George Woodcock, Gabriel Dumont: The Métis Chief and His Lost World (Edmonton,
                            1975). A recent article is Douglas Owram, "The Myth of Louis Riel," Canadian Historical Review, LXIII (September, 1982), 315–30.
                            The Métis insurrections had ramifications in 
                                Ontario
                             and Quebec and affected the westward expansion of 
                                Canada
                            , topics which are discussed in every Canadian history text. An especially good
                            perspective on the 1869–1870 Red River uprising is included
                            in William L. Morton, 
                        
                                    Manitoba
                                : A History (
                                Toronto
                            , 1967). Both the Red River and Northwest rebellions are
                            viewed as inevitable clashes growing out of violations of aboriginal rights in George F. G.
                            Stanley, The Birth of Western 
                                    Canada
                                : A History of the Riel Rebellions (
                                Toronto
                            , 1961). As frequently happens, this intriguing historical event has been the
                            focus for novels and drama. Rudy Wiebe has based two very popular novels on the uprisings:
                                The Scorched Wood People (
                                Toronto
                            , 1977) and The Temptations of Big Bear (
                                Toronto
                            , 1973). John Coulter has written two successful plays based on the
                            Métis leader. Riel, first produced in 1950, was televised in
                            1961 by CBC and published in 1962. During the Centennial of Canadian Confederation in 1967,
                                The Trial of Louis Riel was produced in Regina and has become an
                            annual event there. The exact transcript of the trial and an excellent historical
                            introduction are included in Desmond Morton, The Queen v. Louis Riel (
                                Toronto
                            , 1974).
                  
                     6 Morton's extant papers are few and are not completely
                            cataloged.
               
                     of southern states became increasingly Radical.7 His leadership in the passage of the Fourteenth and Fifteenth amendments, whether inspired
                    by the desire to punish southern rebels or a sincere wish to obtain rights for freedmen, added to
                    his reputation and prompted a black Senate colleague to rank him with Abraham Lincoln and Charles
                    Sumner as "respected and revered" by "the colored people of the
                        South."8
            
            The letter that Riel wrote to Morton in 1875 dates from a very traumatic, controversial period in the
                    Métis leader's life. He had been wandering through the 
                        United States
                     and 
                        Canada
                     since the downfall of his provisional government in 1870. Twice his people had selected
                    him for Parliament to represent the riding of Provencher, 
                        Manitoba
                    . Due to political intrigues in the Macdonald-Cartier government in 
                        Ottawa
                    , as well as to fear of threats to his life in hostile 
                        Ontario
                    , he had never been able to take the seat. Early in 1875 Riel was pardoned for his part
                    in the Red River uprising, but only on the condition that he would remain
                    outside 
                        Canada
                     for five more years. One historian has suggested that the period from October, 1873, to
                    December, 1875, was Riel's time of greatest uncertainty. Doubts over whether he was
                    destined to be a political leader or a religious leader had plagued the Canadian since his
                    father's death in 1864. Shortly after that event, Louis had terminated his studies at the
                    College of the Sulpician Fathers in 
                        Montreal
                    . By 1873 his indecision and uncertainty had led to the mental anguish that would result
                    in visions, prophecies of a divine mission, and eventual commitment in a violent state to an asylum
                    for the insane from 1876 to 1878.9 During the months just prior to his
                    commitment Riel contacted Morton and also appealed twice to President Ulysses S. Grant: first to ask
                    for an appointment to the Department of Indian Affairs and second to present to Grant an outline of
                    the plan that he had earlier suggested to Morton.10
            
            
               
                  7 Morton is the subject of sketches in Clarence L. Barnhart, ed., New Century Cyclopedia of Names (3 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1954), II, 1834; and Biographical Directory of the American Congress,
                            1774–1971… (
                            Washington
                        , 1971), 1446. His role as governor and senator is well described in Emma Lou
                        Thornbrough, Indiana in the Civil War Era, 1850–1880 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1965).
               
                  8 Address of Senator Blanche Bruce of 
                            Mississippi
                         to the 
                            United States
                         Senate, January 17, 1878, in Memorial Addresses on the Life and
                            Character of Oliver P. Morton… (
                            Washington
                        , 1878), 54.
               
                  9 Frank W. Anderson, "Louis Riel's Insanity
                        Reconsidered," Saskatchewan History,
                        III (Autumn, 1950), 104–10.
               
                  10
                  Ibid., 106; see also Hartwell Bowsfield, ed.,
                        "Louis Riel's Letter to President Grant, 1875," Saskatchewan History, XXI (Spring, 1968), 67–75.
            
            
            Riel planned to create a new province in the Northwest Territory, between 
                        Manitoba
                     and 
                        British Columbia
                    , which would be populated by French Canadians, Franco-Americans, Irish Catholics (not
                    Fenians or Orangemen), assimilated Indians, and recent European immigrants who might not find a
                    welcome in other regions. Although he never expressed it in such terms, Riel apparently envisioned a
                    Roman Catholic state where French would be the dominant language. At no time did he ever request
                    direct intervention by the 
                        United States
                     government. The primary objective of his appeal to the Grant administration was for
                    assurances that (1) his new government would be allowed to sell bonds in and to the 
                        United States
                    , (2) the American government would maintain strict neutrality in refusing to allow
                    Canadian and/or British forces to cross 
                        United States
                     territories to reach the new province, and (3) free emigration would be allowed for
                    stateside residents who might wish to live in the new region.11
            
            Riel had no wish to establish an area that would be annexed by the 
                        United States
                    . If he had been amenable to such a scheme, he would have had ample support from the
                    border states and their congressmen. Ignatius Donnelly, one of the most avid expansionists of all
                    time, had opened his professional lecturing career in 1869 with a defense of Riel's actions
                    in 
                        Manitoba
                    .12 Senator Alexander Ramsey of 
                        Minnesota
                     had offered a resolution to the Senate in 1870 to the effect that the 
                        United States
                     should propose "to 
                        England
                     and 
                        Canada
                     that they shall assent to a public expression by the inhabitants of the Selkirk or
                    Winnipeg district, sometimes called Central British America, and also, if you please, by the
                    inhabitants of 
                        British Columbia
                    , on the question of union with the Canadian confederation or with the 
                        United States
                    ."13 Senator Jacob Howard of 
                        Michigan
                     and Senator Henry W. Corbett of 
                        Oregon
                     expressed interest in annexing 
                        British Columbia
                     and/or additional areas as partial settlement of the 
                        
                            Alabama
                        
                     claims.14 Zachariah Chandler of 
                        Michigan
                    , another Senate expansionist, argued for settlement of the 
                        
                            Alabama
                        
                     claims by forcing 
                        England
                     to cede all of 
                        Canada
                     to the 
                        United States
                    . As late as 1874 
                  
                     11 Riel's explanation of his plan is included in Bowsfield,
                            "Louis Riel's Letter to President Grant, 1875."
                  
                     12 Martin Ridge, Ignatius Donnelly: The Portrait of a
                                Politician (
                                Chicago
                            , 1962), 127.
                  
                     13
                            Congressional Globe,
                            41 Cong., 2 Sess., 933.
                  
                     14
                     Ibid., 324–26.
               
                     Chandler was instrumental in defeating free trade with 
                        Canada
                     because he looked forward to the political union of the two nations to bring about
                    "the complete consummation in the independence of the whole English-speaking race on the
                    American continent."15
            
            If Riel had considered annexation, he could also have found assistance from railroad interests in the 
                        United States
                    . Both Jay Cooke's Northern Pacific and George Becker's Saint Paul and
                    Pacific were interested in acquiring northern routes to the west coast before the Panic of 1873
                    forced them into bankruptcy.16 At no point did Riel contact any of these extreme
                    Manifest Destinarians to gain their support; instead, he severely criticized then openly broke with
                    follower William Donoghue who tried to negotiate with annexation and Fenian interests in the 
                        United States
                    . There were some in the Red River settlement who desired
                    annexation. The 
                        United States
                     consul in Winnipeg, James W. Taylor, and his countryman, Enos Stutsman, tried to
                    capitalize on such sentiment, but Riel made clear time after time that his intention was to create a
                    government that would be loyal to Her Majesty and that would negotiate 
                        Manitoba
                    's entry into Confederation. There is no reason to suppose that his views on
                    that issue had changed by 1875 when he wrote to Morton. Additionally, there is nothing in
                    Morton's record to connect the senator with the avid annexationists in Congress despite the
                    charges of Sumner during the Santo Domingo debates that Morton's proposal to send a
                    commission to investigate the Santo Domingo situation was a disguised step toward annexation.17 An undated speech among the sparse Morton papers indicates that Morton
                    strongly favored complete independence for 
                        Canada
                     after the negotiations for the Treaty of 
                        Washington
                     in 1871. He held open future possibility of annexation only if both 
                        Canada
                     and the 
                        United States
                     felt it to be desirable.18 Part of Riel's thinking in
                    making an appeal to Morton rather than to the annexationists may 
                  
                     15 Quoted in Mary Karl George, Zachariah Chandler: A
                                Political Biography (East Lansing, Mich., 1969), 215.
                  
                     16 Although Jay Cooke's and George Becker's lines
                            were bankrupt after the Panic of 1873, successors retained an interest in western expansion.
                            James J. Hill, Canadian by birth, bought out Becker's interests and ran a line to
                            Winnipeg before connecting to the coast. John F. Stover, American
                            Railroads (
                                Chicago
                            , 1961), 76–79.
                  
                     17 George, Zachariah Chandler, 185.
                  
                     18 Undated speech draft, Box 4, Oliver P. Morton Papers (Indiana
                            Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ).
               
                     therefore have been that the senator would not be likely to
                    couple any agreement to demands for annexation.
            Support for Riel's 
                        Manitoba
                     uprising existed among the American population, but most of it was unacceptable to the
                    Métis leader. Riel received letters from 
                  Cleveland, Ohio
               , expressing a
                    willingness on the part of the writers to emigrate and fight for his cause, especially if he were to
                    issue a true Declaration of Independence and, possibly, later agree to annexation.19 Letters from 
                  Buffalo, New York
               , assured Riel that Americans and Fenians could be
                    secured to assist in a continuing rebellion and suggested military strategies for use against the
                    British regulars.20 These, however, did not represent the kind of help which
                    Riel needed or wanted. The Métis leader had visited widely among 
                        New England
                     francophones, many of whom were natives of French 
                        Canada
                    . His close friend, Edmon Mallet, wrote from his parents' home in 
                        New York
                     that he had met friends of Riel during a lecture tour (in French) to
                            
                  Worcester, Massachusetts
               .21 Despite the fact that these
                    friends and advisors might have been an influential constituency had Riel approached their
                    congressmen rather than Morton, there is no indication that he did so.
            Morton was evidently the mainstay of Riel's hope for assistance from the 
                        United States
                     government, for the Métis leader wrote to the senator again the day
                    following his original letter. In a note dated November 1, 1875, Riel suggested that in return for
                    Morton's assistance, he would effect a cure for the paralysis which had severely limited
                    Morton's physical mobility since 1865.22 Unfortunately, no extant
                    evidence exists to indicate any reaction by the senator to this extraordinary offer. Riel's
                    biographer, Thomas Flanagan, cites Morton as "an atheist since youth" and
                    therefore unreceptive to Riel's offer.23 Morton's
                    contemporaries did not class the senator as an atheist, although he lacked any formal link with an
                    organized religious body. The major biographical work on Morton describes him as a
                    "Channing Unitarian" with a "great reverence for the name of
                    God" which he "seldom used lightly."24 A
                    congressional colleague 
                  
                     19 John Holland to Louis Riel, December 28, 1869, and illegible author
                            to Louis Riel, January 7, 1870, Riel Collection, numbers 16, 18.
                  
                     20 Charles Beardsley to Riel, April 30, 1870, June 24, 1870, Riel
                            Collection, numbers 28, 30.
                  
                     21 Edmond Mallet to Riel, October 22, 1875, Riel Collection, number
                            315.
                  
                     22 Thomas Flanagan, Louis ‘David’
                                Riel: ‘Prophet of the New World’ (
                                Toronto
                            , 1979), 47.
                  
                            23
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     24 William Dudley Foulke, Life of Oliver P. Morton:
                                Including His Important Speeches (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1899), II, 532.
               
                     league remembered a conversation with Morton in which the
                    senator had "expressed his faith in immortality and the Christian system." The
                    same colleague described Morton's religious attitude further: "He seemed not to
                    regard the ceremonial of religion, but believed in a religion of feeling, of works, rather than of
                        opinion."25 Since scholars agree that one of the strongest
                    influences on Riel's character was the unique brand of Roman Catholicism that nurtured and
                    was nurtured by the French Canadians in a sense of "divine mission" after the
                    Conquest of 1760, it would seem that Riel should have anticipated problems in dealing with a person
                    who may well have believed that no God existed. On the other hand, Riel could reasonably have
                    related to a "Channing Unitarian." Biographer William Dudley Foulke credits Morton
                    with a study of works by William Paley during Miami University years.26
                    Paley's natural theology philosophies were influential in 
                        Canada
                     during the early nineteenth century and would have been familiar, if unacceptable, to
                    Riel in Quebec.27
            
            Although Flanagan probably erred in his religious assessment of Morton, his studies have shed much
                    new light on the religious aspects of Riel's life. Some of Riel's later actions
                    were so ludicrous as to seem bizarre. Flanagan, however, has painstakingly and convincingly shown
                    that in all the instability and confusion that surrounded Riel's political and religious
                    leadership, no action was illogical or inconsistent by the Métis leader's own
                        standards.28 All modern studies show that it has been a mistake to portray
                    Riel as a fanatic egotist leading superstitious and misguided outcasts. To appreciate the religious
                    influence and pressure that Riel felt, one must consider the influential role of the Roman Catholic
                    church and clergy among French Canadians. From the time of the Conquest of 1760, the church
                    hierarchy exercised growing power politically and socially, finally reaching the point of virtual
                    control over all aspects of life in Quebec. The missionaries sent among the Indians and
                    Métis expected, and were expected by the parish, to exercise similar power. The
                    ultramontanist position of Quebec clergy, especially after the French revolution, caused them to be
                    critical of what they regarded as papal compromise 
                  
                     25 Address of Representative Thomas Browne of Indiana to the 
                                United States
                             House of Representatives, January 18, 1878, in Memorial
                            Addresses, 82.
                  
                     26 Foulke, Life of Oliver P. Morton,
                            I, 12.
                  
                     27 A. B. McKillop, A Disciplined Intelligence: Critical
                                Inquiry and Canadian Thought in the Victorian Era (
                                Montreal
                            , 1979), 59–91.
                  
                     28 Flanagan, Louis ‘David’ Riel,
                                passim.
                  
               
                    
                    
                  OLIVER P. MORTON
                  
                  Reproduced from William Dudley Foulke, Life of Oliver P. Morton:
                                Including His Important Speeches (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1899), I, frontispiece.
               
                     during the nineteenth century. All of these factors played a
                    very real part in Riel's thinking. He expanded on each point, finally concluding that the
                    entire papacy had served its purpose and that God now needed a new prophet in the New World, namely
                    Louis—or "David"—Riel.
            Unsympathetic writers have described Riel's actions as totally and completely mad from the
                    very beginning. His champions, who claim that he has been denied a place in history because of his
                    minority status, call attention to the fact that both friend and foe found it expedient at times to
                    claim that he had been insane or was feigning insanity. Modern scholars agree that some emotional
                    instability and symptoms of mental illness plagued Riel after 1875. A series of apparent delusions,
                    which Riel regarded as divinely prophetic signs and messages directed to him from God, occurred over
                    several years time; and Riel gradually came to believe that he was to be, in addition to a political
                    leader, the new religious leader of a post-papal Catholic church and would replace the Bishop of 
                        Rome
                    . He was to be the Prophet of the New World.29 An integral part in
                    convincing people of the validity of his divine mission, and in obtaining backing for his political
                    dreams at the same time, was to be the resurrection of Oliver P. Morton!
            Riel had many "signs" from God that he would obtain help from Morton. One, in
                    March, 1878, in Glens Fall, 
                        New York
                    , consisted of a vision of the American eagle smiling benignly toward the Northwest. At
                    the same time God spoke to him of "Oliver ‘Pie’ Mort-tonne."
                    Riel placed great stock in searching for meanings of French to English (and vice versa) translations
                    and in this instance was using the French for Pius in lieu of Morton's middle initial. In
                    addition, he separated Morton's last name into two French words which could translate as
                    "dead thunder."30 Riel also found it significant that Morton
                    had died on November 1, 1877—exactly two years to the day after Riel had written to offer
                    to heal his infirmity. In snatches of diaries written by Riel after his return from 
                        Montana
                     to Saskatchewan territory, Morton is included in a long series of petitions to God that
                    were composed throughout the winter and spring of 1884–1885. Among the pleas for family
                    members, trusted friends, his beloved Métis, and others, Riel wrote: "My God! If
                    You wish, If You have so decided in Your eternal plans, resurrect Oliver P. 
                  
                            29
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     30
                     Ibid., 97.
               
                     Morton as he was and then heal him, so that he may aid us in the 
                        United States
                    ."31 Riel intended for this aid to be given freely by the 
                        United States
                    . Apparently Morton would know how and by whom his resurrection and cure had been
                    arranged and would act accordingly, since Riel wrote in April, 1885: "Oh my God. Save me
                    from the misfortunes of getting involved with the 
                        United States
                    . Let the 
                        United States
                     protect us indirectly, spontaneously through an act of Your Holy Providence, but not
                    through any commitment or argument on our part."32
            
            Morton was evidently unimpressed with Riel's plans and promises. No evidence exists to
                    indicate that the senator replied to Riel's letters in 1875, and certainly Morton was not
                    resurrected after death! The rational, practical, rather aloof senator may well have been taken
                    aback by proposals of an impossible-sounding plan presented in such an intense manner by the
                    emotional, dedicated, devout Riel. In his letter Riel suggests that his difficulties with the
                    English language prevented Morton's full understanding. Although French was his native
                    tongue, Riel both wrote and spoke English well. Pronunciation and word usage may have hampered their
                    communications, but Riel also acknowledged that Morton had objections to the plan which were sound.
            During a traumatic period of his life, while seeking assistance with a highly implausible plan to
                    assist the Métis people to form a state without danger of annexation to the 
                        United States
                    , what might Riel have seen in Morton that caused him to view the senator as the very
                    key to his success? Several speculative possibilities occur.
            Since Riel knew Morton purely by reputation, he may have been impressed by the accounts of
                    Morton's wartime leadership of Indiana. The action of financing the state through personal
                    loans and financial arrangements rather than calling a hostile legislature into session almost
                    assuredly would have appeared magnificent to Riel. He would have admired the mind that devised the
                    scheme of denying the legislative session a quorum, the character that could rely on friends and
                    associates to provide the funds, and the courage that enabled the successful governor to run for
                    reelection in 1864 in the hope that he 
                  
                     31 Thomas Flanagan, ed., The Diaries of Louis Riel
                            (Edmonton, 1976), 32.
                  
                     32
                     Ibid., 78.
               
                     would be vindicated by a Republican-controlled legislature.33 This was leadership of the sort Riel sought to give his Métis
                    people: daring, incisive, brilliant—insuring the best interests of the common man even
                    before such interests were recognized by the people.
            That Morton could then rise to a position of leadership within the 
                        United States
                     Senate would have satisfied Riel's view of the way the world should function.
                    He, too, after leading the Red River Provisional Government and negotiating the
                    entrance of 
                        Manitoba
                     into the Confederation as a province under the 
                        Manitoba
                     Act, had been vindicated by his people by being elected to the House of Commons.
                    However, unlike Morton, he was not welcome in the seat of government and thus never took his seat.
            During the post-Civil War decades the Republican party in the 
                        United States
                     received much credit for freeing the slaves. In 
                        Canada
                     the Métis had long been objects of discrimination on two counts of minority
                    status: francophonic and half-breed. They viewed the freed black in the 
                        United States
                     as holding a somewhat analagous position. As a leading Senate Republican after the war,
                    Morton supported the fourteenth and fifteenth amendments to the Constitution. His role in their
                    passage would probably have enhanced Riel's belief in the senator as a champion of the
                    oppressed, even though Morton, as did other leaders of the time, denied that blacks were the
                    "social" equal of whites.34 In addition, Riel might well find
                    in Morton's Senate speeches reasons to believe that the Indiana senator was ahead of the
                    pack in favoring political rights for other minority groups. The extended debate over the admission
                    of the Pembina, or Algonquin, territory in the first session of the Fortythird Congress was of
                    interest to Riel since many Métis lived within the proposed boundaries. Morton's
                    vote against admitting the territory was cast only after he had argued intently on May 28, 1874, for
                    an amendment which would have granted full rights to all citizens—even
                    women—in the territory.35 Similarly, on February 13, 1875, Morton
                    presented a petition 
                  
                     33 For details on Morton's actions as governor of Indiana see
                            Thornbrough, Indiana in the Civil War Era, passim; and Kenneth M. Stampp,
                                Indiana Politics during the Civil War (Indiana Historical Collections,
                            Vol. XXXI, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1949).
                  
                     34 Undated manuscript, Folder 17, Box 6, Morton Papers.
                  
                     35
                            Congressional Record, 43 Cong., 1 Sess., 4332–33.
               
                     that all citizens of the 
                        District of Columbia
                    —including women—should be allowed to vote.36
            
            Morton also delivered an address to the Senate in February, 1870, on the "Laws of
                    Neutrality." This speech supported Senate Bill 368, which forbade 
                        United States
                     citizens to provide arms for "any foreign prince or State to commit
                    hostilities against the people of any province, district, or colony who are in a state of armed
                    insurrection against such foreign prince or State."37 Morton's
                    speech was actually directed at 
                        Spain
                     and 
                        Cuba
                    , but he made mention of 
                        Canada
                     at several points as an area which, should it seek to separate from 
                        England
                    , would find no English objection. Morton also distinguished between a rebellion within
                    a nation, such as the Union had rightly put down, and rebellion of distant provinces seeking
                    independence, which should be allowed to proceed without interference.38 In
                    Riel's mind the 
                        Manitoba
                     uprising would certainly have fallen even beyond the latter category. The Red
                        River area was not a part of 
                        Canada
                     when the people resisted in 1869. The Northwest Territory was, by definition, not yet a
                    province when the rebellion took place in 1884–1885. By Riel's reasoning,
                    therefore, Morton would surely approve and support his undertaking.
            Riel might also have admired what he knew of Morton's personal life. According to
                    contemporaries the invalid senator was devoted to his family and admired in return by them.39 Although Riel had not yet married at the time of his contact with Morton, his
                    own feelings for family ties and relationships were always in keeping with the strongest French
                    Catholic traditions. Morton's rise from an orphaned childhood through law study to an
                    influential position in the Republican party—which Riel quite possibly viewed as an
                    ideological political organization—might also have impressed the Métis leader.
                    The decision that took Morton from the ranks of the Democratic party into the local
                    People's group and on to 
                        Pittsburgh
                     as an early member of the national Republican party could well have appealed to Riel as
                    courageously following one's conscience even at the possible cost of position.
                    Morton's willingness to allow Henry S. Lane to lead the Republican ticket in Indiana as the
                    gubernatorial nominee in 1860 when Morton himself had 
                  
                     36
                            Congressional Record, 43 Cong., 2 Sess., 1267.
                  
                     37
                            Congressional Globe, 41 Cong., 2 Sess., 1128.
                  
                     38
                     Ibid., 1131.
                  
                     39 Address of Representative Morton C. Hunter of Indiana, p. 100, and
                            Senator Ambrose Burnside of 
                                Rhode Island
                            , p. 25, in Memorial Addresses.
                  
               
                     been the nominee for governor in 1856 would have impressed Riel,
                    particularly when allied with the fact that Morton rejected President Ulysses S. Grant's
                    offer of the chief justiceship upon the death of Salmon P. Chase in 1873.40 To
                    Riel, Morton might well have embodied personal sacrifice in the best interests of the people.
            Unlike many Canadians of both French and English descent, Riel had a firm understanding of, and
                    appreciation for, the American political system. He apparently had no preconceived prejudice against
                    the "republican" as opposed to a "monarchial" system. The
                    accessibility of the American leaders to the public and the independence offered to each branch of
                    government were to be used as a part of his plan. In his appeal to Grant, Riel suggested that aid
                    given to the Métis cause would be of political value to the Republican party in general
                    and to Grant in particular if he were to try for a third presidential term.41
                    The Métis was undoubtedly aware when he approached Morton that the Indiana senator was a
                    possible contender for the Republican presidential nomination in 1876, and he might well have made
                    the point regarding political capital to Morton also.
            Riel's devotion to the Republican party, as opposed to the Democratic, never wavered. A few
                    years after his meeting with Morton he angered American officials in 
                        Montana
                     by trying to deliver Métis votes to the local Republican candidates during
                    the 1882 campaign. The desire to be politically active was one motivation behind his acquiring 
                        United States
                     citizenship in 1883. It may have been in part the disappointment of being rejected by
                    the Republican leaders that caused Riel to write during his last spring in the area that would
                    become Saskatchewan: 
                        I used to live wretchedly in the 
                                United States
                             among serpents, amid poisonous vipers. I was so surrounded that wherever I
                            wished to set foot I saw them teeming. The ground was crawling with them. The 
                                United States
                             are hell for an honest man. A respectable family is in disrepute there. It is
                            ridiculed, scoffed at. Oh, what a great misfortune it is to be obliged to go seek refuge in
                            the 
                                United States
                            .42
                  
                    
                
            
               
                  40 For background on Morton see Foulke, Life of Oliver P.
                            Morton, I, 35–45, 65–67, II, 339–40.
               
                  41 Bowsfield, "Louis Riel's Letter to President
                        Grant," 67. Riel believed that the Métis vote plus that of other minority
                        and immigrant groups would be attracted by aiding the Métis.
               
                  42 Flanagan, Diaries, 78.
            
            
            Probably the most influential motivation in Riel's approach to Morton for assistance to the
                    Métis people, however, was the Métis leader's mental state and
                    emotional condition. If Flanagan is correct, Riel could subdue the violent rages that caused him to
                    be institutionalized from 1876 to 1878 if he felt such restraint necessary to convince the
                    disbelieving world that his claims of divine and prophetic mission were valid. A man who could
                    exercise such control would presumedly have little difficulty in believing that his plan to attain
                    American assistance for a newly forming Métis state was sound and that the leader he
                    thought Morton to be would prove a real and valuable ally. In his own mind Riel might easily have
                    pictured Morton as the dynamic "war governor," a man who assumed a semidictatorial
                    position when necessary for the best interests of his state and people, a man of humble origins who
                    rose to a position of leadership in a political party formed on a commitment to free the downtrodden
                    and oppressed, a man whose dedication to the righting of social wrongs had caused him to forego
                    appointments to higher offices, and a loving and adored family man who courageously followed the
                    call of duty despite the difficulties of invalidism. Surely this man could be made to appreciate the
                    necessity and wisdom of Riel's plan. The personal-interview approach failed, in
                    Riel's mind only due to the language barrier, but a man of Morton's character
                    could undoubtedly be persuaded through a small miracle. Riel magnaminously offered to use his powers
                    as a divinely inspired prophet to cure Morton of his affliction. Riel probably thought it
                    understandable that Morton was reluctant to accept, but God brought a sign to the Métis
                    leader when, exactly two years later, on All Saints' Day, 1877, Morton was removed from the
                    earthly scene. Now, Oliver "Pie" Morton was truly the key to the success of Louis
                    "David" Riel, his mission, his people, and his political plans. Through
                    God's help the bodily resurrection of this American leader could be arranged. Then the
                    Roman Catholic leaders, who had doubted and criticized his mission as heretical, would have to
                    accept the truth of his visions and prophecies. Through their belief, all French
                    Canadians—in Quebec, in the West, and in the 
                        United States
                     as well—would understand and accept his leadership. Eventually the entire
                    Catholic church would at last be corrected to conform with his vision. While all this was taking
                    place, the last part of the Morton miracle would occur—the healing of the resurrected
                    senator's paralytic invalidism. Out of gratitude, if not religious devotion, Morton and the
                    American leaders would arrange the  protection and pressure which
                    the Métis people needed to convince the Canadian and English governments to guarantee
                    Métis rights under the British North American Act. The amount of 
                        United States
                     assistance needed would depend, of course, upon how impressed the Anglican and
                    Presbyterian English and Canadian leaders were by Riel's miracles. To Riel all of these
                    assumptions might easily have appeared logical and valid.
            The final tragic clash between the Métis and the Canadian government came at Batoche in
                    May, 1885. Even then, Riel's leadership overruled the more brutal strategies of Gabriel
                    Dumont, which would have been militarily more advantageous to the Métis. Rather than
                    return to exile, Riel surrendered to the Canadian troops. His idealism, his devotion, his faith
                    forced him to reject the idea of a defense based on insanity. The government charged him with high
                    treason. The August trial was a sensation that could have no "good" long range
                    results. When the six-man jury found Riel guilty as charged, they recommended leniency. Judge Hugh
                    Richardson sentenced him to hang, and the sentence was carried out at Regina on November 16, 1885.
                    The Macdonald government's stated reasons for execution were justifiable: the new Dominion
                    must deal firmly with the threat of rebellion. As a part of the Empire, British law would be fairly
                    extended to all.
            Riel was hanged, and two Indian chiefs, Poundmaker and Big Bear, were found guilty on lesser charges
                    and served prison sentences. These punishments were meant to prove for all time that rebellion would
                    not be tolerated by 
                        Canada
                    . To Riel's followers, and to their relatives in Quebec, it seemed that their
                    leader was dying not because of his actions but because 
                        Ontario
                     demanded that the execution of Thomas Scott be revenged. The issue remains an
                    unresolved question between the two charter peoples even today.
            Strangely, the very man to whom Riel had addressed a letter of supplication some ten years before his
                    hanging seemingly held views similar to Prime Minister Macdonald's concerning the
                    advisability of dealing firmly with rebellion within one's own nation. Had Morton still
                    lived in 1885 (assumedly naturally rather than by Riel's intercessions) his attitude toward
                    Riel's sentencing might have been disappointing to the Métis leader. On the
                    other hand, if Morton had possessed all the character traits with which Riel possibly endowed him,
                    if his dedication to relieving the struggle of minority groups was 
                    
                  A Group of Rebel Leaders by Octave Henri Julien Beardy White Cap Big Bear Louis
                            Riel Gabriel Dumont
                            (
                                    Manitoba
                                 Archives)
                  
                  Reproduced from Mary V. Jordan, To Louis from your sister who loves
                                you Sara Riel (
                                Toronto
                            , 1974), 29.
                as great as his biographers have proclaimed, and if his understanding of the Canadian
                    situation was sufficient, he might have responded in Riel's behalf.
            Perhaps some future discovery of additional Morton writings will provide another insight into this
                    unusual situation. It seems likely that, at such a crucial time in the Reconstruction era, Morton
                    paid scant attention to what may have seemed to him an unimportant episode between the half-breeds
                    and the 
                        Ottawa
                     government. It is improbable that he was even aware that these differences were, even
                    then, threatening the anglophone-francophone relations in 
                        Canada
                    . It is evident, however, that Oliver Perry Morton, usually depicted as an anathema to
                    rebels in the 
                        United States
                    , was a very real focus of the hopes and dreams of 
                        Canada
                    's most renowed rebel, Louis Riel.
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Indiana Ragtime: A Documentary Album. Produced by John Edward Hasse and Frank J.
                    Gillis. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1981. 4 sides, 33 selections, stereo, 33⅓ rpm.
                    Booklet included: Pp. 27. Illustrations, map, bibliographies. Paperbound. $14.00.)
            
               Indiana Ragtime: A Documentary Album is a collection of thirty-three rags composed
                    between 1908 and 1929 by Indiana natives or residents. The music has been chosen both to document
                    Indiana's contributions to the ragtime era and to illustrate the variety of ways that
                    ragtime reached the American public. The collection consists of four parts: eight solos (either
                    banjo or piano), nine piano rolls, eight pieces performed by the Indiana University Ragtime
                    Orchestra, and eight band arrangements. The solo renditions range from performances of the published
                    score to improvisational versions, including a stride performance of "Mr. Crump
                    Rag." The band performances show both the influence of ragtime on other American music and
                    the influence of popular music, especially jazz, on ragtime renderings. This microcosmic view of
                    Indiana ragtime, therefore, contributes to cultural history far beyond the banks of the 
                        Wabash
                    .
            The set would be valuable for the music alone, but it is made invaluable by a companion booklet
                    comprised of three sections. The first part sets Indiana ragtime within the context of "The
                    Ragtime Era" (1897–1920). It describes the sociocultural trends that combined to
                    promote ragtime's popularity at the turn of the century, including white acceptance of
                    blacks performing popular music; coon shows and vaudeville; municipal bands; dance contests,
                    especially the ragtime-related cakewalk; the parlor pianos of an expanding middle class; player
                    pianos, phonograph records, and gramophone cylinders; and a "golden age of local and
                    regional music publishing" (p. 5). The second section describes the composers, providing
                    short biographical sketches of the fifteen men and three women whose work is represented in this
                    album. For the most part Indiana's ragtime composers were "ordinary
                    people" with conventional musical training and unconventional interests. Only Hoagy
                    Carmichael and J. Russel Robinson are widely known, even among students of American popular music;
                    but all of Indiana's ragtimers composed first-rate music. The third and largest section of
                    the booklet is therefore devoted to a description and analysis of the music itself. Details of
                    composition and publication, a description of musical strains, and (in the solo and band sections) a
                    sketch of the performers are given for each piece. All three 
                    sections are illustrated with turn-of-the-century photographs and color reproductions of sheet music
                    covers. The booklet concludes with short but judicious bibliographies of the ragtime era, ragtime
                    and jazz, Indiana ragtime, and music folios. The result is a booklet that serves as an introductory
                    theme, arousing interest in both the music and the history of Indiana ragtime.
            The collection is so good that one wishes Hasse and Gillis had been even more ambitious in using
                    Indiana ragtime as an independent case study of American ragtime. For example, as the dates of
                    publication suggest, Indiana ragtimers were not pioneers but began to write only as rags gained
                    wider public acceptance. Would it be possible, therefore, to use Indiana as a test case for the
                    "domestication" of a black musical form? Could this expand knowledge of race
                    relations during the ragtime era? The authors note that "ironically, at the very time when
                    blacks were prevented from moving into the mainstream of society, ragtime represented the full
                    emergence into American society of a vital Afro-American tradition" (p. 7). They do not,
                    however, explore the irony, as Brooke Baldwin does for "The Cake Walk: A Study in
                    Stereotype and Reality" in a recent Journal of Social History (Winter,
                    1981) article. This omission should not detract unduly from an impressive achievement: a collection,
                    description, and analysis of Indiana ragtime that will be useful to cultural historians and
                    attractive to the general public. One only hopes that other state and local historical societies
                    will follow the Indiana Historical Society in similar ventures.
            
               St. Olaf College, Northfield, Minn. James J. Farrell
         
         
            
               Transportation and the Early Nation: Papers Presented at an Indiana American
                        Revolution Bicentennial Symposium. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1982. Pp. vii, 156. Notes, illustrations, tables, maps.
                    Paperbound, $3.50.)
            This volume consists of six papers originally prepared for a 1981 Indiana Bicentennial Symposium. The
                    essays are concerned with transportation in the Old Northwest before the Civil War, and they provide
                    both descriptive and interpretive accounts of canals, steamboats, and railroads.
            Harry N. Scheiber's lead essay offers the most innovative approach as he attempts to unravel
                    the significant legal and political issues surrounding the building of a national transportation
                    system. He observes that the major issues, such as the  question
                    of federal and state government involvement, were usually resolved in legislative bodies rather than
                    in the courts. Scheiber, moreover, disagrees with many historians who feel that opposition to
                    federal sponsorship emanated from sectional or state interests. He argues that senators and
                    congressmen had legitimate ideological opposition to increasing the power of the central government
                    through establishment of a transportation system.
            Unlike Scheiber's highly original essay, Douglas Clanin's paper recounts the basic
                    history of the internal improvements question in national politics from the end of the War of 1812
                    to Andrew Jackson's Maysville Road veto. Clanin follows closely Frederick Jackson
                    Turner's observations that sectional interests prevented the development of a national
                    system of transportation.
            In the next essay Donald T. Zimmer provides a geographic and historical tour of the Ohio
                        River and stresses its role in moving population and goods during the early republic.
                    Zimmer organizes his essay around the development of 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana, which grew and prospered with the steamboat in the 1820s and 1830s but then
                    declined with the emergence of the railroad in the 1850s. The author also gives the reader useful
                    information about the hazards of river travel, such as sandbars and snags, and about the evolution
                    of river craft, such as keelboats and steamboats.
            The next two essays explore the role of canals. Ronald E. Shaw examines the evolution of canal
                    systems in the various states of the Old Northwest and draws several valuable comparisons. He points
                    out that the canals never represented either a state or national system of transportation because
                    local political interests, rather than economic factors, determined the number of canals and their
                    routes. Shaw also reminds us of the importance of canal builders, such as Jesse Williams, who, with
                    limited formal training, accomplished truly remarkable engineering feats. Ralph D. Gray's
                    essay analyzes the history of Indiana's canal system with particular reference to the 
                        Wabash
                     and 
                        Erie
                     Canal. Gray has important observations on why Indiana boosters chose to build canals in
                    1836 even though railroad technology was already on the horizon. He explains that railroads were
                    unproven and far more expensive. Canals, moreover, were very attractive to westerners since they
                    could be used by anyone able to drop a boat in the water. While admitting that Indiana's
                    internal improvements were dominated by local interests and overbuilt, he argues that many  canals, particularly the 
                        Wabash
                     and 
                        Erie
                    , were essential to the state's economic growth.
            The volume's final essay by John F. Stover is a statistical and descriptive account of
                    railroad building in the Old Northwest.
            Although this book adequately summarizes historical knowledge about internal improvements in the Old
                    Northwest and in several places suggests new research directions, no comprehensive picture of
                    transportation emerges. Even though the symposium was never intended to present a definitive view of
                    early transportation, the book would have benefited from more than the single essay on railroads, a
                    paper describing the toll road system, and an analysis of travel by foot and horseback, which were
                    important, though neglected, parts of the transportation network. Despite these minor criticisms,
                    this book is an informative and well-written introduction to the transportation history of the Old
                    Northwest.
            
               
                  
                            Central Michigan
                         University, Mount Pleasant John D. Haeger
         
         
            
               The American Small Town: Twentieth–Century Place Images. By John A.
                    Jakle. (Hamden, Conn.: Archon Books, 1982. Pp. 195. Illustrations, maps, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $25.00.)
            Deceptively simple and appealing, the small town has attracted an array of writers purporting to
                    gauge its heartbeat and assess its soul. American fiction of the early twentieth century often
                    treated the small town not simply as a stage but as an essential part of character and plot
                    development. Midwestern writers, including Hoosiers Booth Tarkington and Meredith Nicholson, were
                    especially inclined to write about small towns, often infusing them with bucolic qualities. More
                    recently, social scientists have analytically dissected small-town life and institutions, while
                    historians such as Lewis Atherton, Page Smith, and Richard Lingeman have attempted to describe their
                    central features and explain how they changed. John A. Jakle makes good use of all this work and
                    adds to it from two important sources. He draws meaning from photographs of small-town scenes,
                    particularly snapshots and postcard photographs, which appear on nearly every page and are
                    integrated skillfully with the text; and he uses his geographer's perspective to focus his
                    analysis on the image of small towns as places. The combination of photographic evidence and  a geographer's eye makes this book an important
                    contribution to the literature of small-town America.
            Jakle studies towns of between 5,000 and 10,000 residents in the period 1900–1960, with
                    particular emphasis on the Midwest. In the first six chapters the author considers commerce,
                    society, and public and private life in the period before the automobile. Jakle asserts a strong
                    sense of community as evident in attachments to images of Main Street, with its opera house, bank,
                    saloon, barbershop, lodge hall, and hotel, and to images of the courthouse, railroad depot, and
                    family home. All, as his illustrations so poignantly show, were symbols and icons of small-town
                    America, constituting the images of place that reflected a sense of community, an inwardness and a
                    centralization of social relationships. With the arrival of the automobile the landscape changed.
                    Main Street as a space for pedestrians became a space for automobiles, and the major highway through
                    the town spread business and other activities away from the few blocks near the courthouse. In this
                    and other ways the automobile changed the landscape: the sense of community declined, as individual
                    self-interest and an apeing of big city ways came to dominate and to be reflected in the landscape.
            Like most good books, Jakle's raises many questions and some doubts. Community historians
                    will wish that the work of such scholars as Robert Wiebe and Thomas Bender had figured in his
                    approach, for their studies of community suggest different ways of thinking about community
                    "breakdown" and a different timing of change. Certainly Jakle overstates the role
                    of the automobile in the changes he postulates, in part because these changes were underway prior to
                    1920 and even 1900. Jakle also tends toward sweeping generalizations not supported by his evidence.
                    He particularly eschews statistical evidence and analysis, sticking closely to symbols rather than
                    realities, and it is mildly disappointing that so many of his excellent photographs and captions do
                    not identify the towns pictured. But the strengths of this book are many, and they are impressive.
                    No one should write, give a lecture, mount a museum exhibit, collect source materials, or undertake
                    an oral hsitory project about small towns before reading this book. For the Midwest especially,
                    where the small town flourished, Jakle's photographs and geographer's insights
                    have made a major contribution to twentieth-century community history.
            
               University of 
                            Kent
                        , 
                            Canterbury
                        , 
                            England
                        
                James H. Madison
         
         
         
            
               Read This Only to Yourself: The Private Writings of Midwestern Women,
                        1880–1910. By Elizabeth Hampsten. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1982. Pp. xiii, 242. Notes. $22.50.)
            Historians interested in the lives of ordinary people will find an abundance of material in the
                    letters and diaries of late-nineteenth-century midwestern women who are quoted and analyzed by
                    Elizabeth Hampsten in Read This Only to Yourself. Passages from letters written by
                    women over a long period of time enable the reader to trace the life experiences of rural women in
                    their own words. Hampsten, who collected all of her sources in 
                        North Dakota
                    , contends that these writings are representative of women throughout rural America, not
                    only because correspondents came from other parts of the country but, more importantly, because
                    regionalism is not a significant factor in the writings of women. Male writers are often preoccupied
                    with the politics and topography of their regions, but the women Hampsten presents limit their
                    concerns to their homes and the health and activities of themselves, their families, friends, and
                    neighbors. Although the absence of regionalism in women's writings is confirmed by the
                    examples Hampsten provides, this remains a provocative thesis that will require further testing.
            Hampsten demonstrates that social class, unlike region, does influence the manner in which women
                    write. Correspondence in Read This Only to Yourself reveals differences between
                    the unaffected conversational tone of rural working women and the more self-conscious and sometimes
                    figurative language of more prosperous writers. Hampsten's working women include not only
                    those who worked for wages but also those whose days were taken up with the myriad chores that
                    "indirectly supplement family income by drastically reducing expenditures" (p.
                    50). These working women wrote "in order to assert a pattern and to blurr distinctions
                    between recurring and unique events" because "keeping the pattern intact day after
                    day" was "a mark of a well-regulated and successful life" (p. 68). In
                    words that were written "to create substitutes for their own voices," Hampsten
                    detects a clear sense of self-assurance (p. 95). "Through it all women are not particularly
                    cheerful, but neither are they helpless. What they are is sure of themselves" (p. 89).
                    These women did not refer to themselves as pioneers, for they "were less strangers to a new
                    land than familiars to a condition of living" (p. 89).
            
            Hampsten's fourth and most important chapter, "‘Don't Read
                    Aloud’: Class and Sexuality, Disease, and Death in Women's Writings"
                    provides further evidence to refute the stereotype of Victorian sexual prudery. Their lack of
                    knowledge about their bodies frustrated and angered these rural women as they sought to gain some
                    measure of control over their reproductive systems. Letters contain both subtle hints and explicit
                    instructions on birth control. Women who frequently encountered gruesome illnesses and deaths in
                    their communities and families did not shy away from the grim details in their accounts. Since many
                    of the letters cited were primarily obituary listings, one has the impression that mortality rates
                    in late-nineteenth-century 
                        North Dakota
                     were very high. Failure to include any demographic statistics for the state for the
                    period covered in the study makes it difficult to judge whether or not that impression is accurate
                    or to compare this region to others. Hampsten did not intend to write a social history of pioneer
                    life in 
                        North Dakota
                    , but there are places in the book where more information on the social, economic, and
                    historical context would enhance the value of the letters and diaries.
            The two chapters in which Hampsten presents detailed accounts of three specific women and those
                    around them constitute the least successful part of the book. Hampsten apparently felt that she had
                    found some potentially rich manuscript collections, but she reproduced these materials without
                    integrating them into the rest of the book. These three case studies were not as illuminating as
                    Hampsten suggests, and information from the two chapters could have been included in earlier
                    discussions. Despite problems with these chapters, the book contributes to knowledge of rural life
                    in the nineteenth century by allowing previously invisible women to address a twentieth-century
                    audience.
            
               DePauw University, 
                            Greencastle
                        
                Barbara J. Steinson
         
         
            
               The Papers of Henry Clay. Volume 6, Secretary of State, 1827.
                    Edited by Mary W.M. Hargreaves and James F. Hopkins. (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1981. Pp. vi, 1448. Notes, index. $35.00.)
            The 
                        Clay
                     Papers Project was conceived "with an assumption that our work served the
                    interests of a wide audience… concerned about identification and explanation of 
                        Clay
                    's role in the local setting as well as on the national and international
                    scenes…. We aimed to illuminate that history,  not
                    merely the life of the individual" (p. iii). To accomplish this goal the editors planned to
                    include in their entirety all but certain formal documents, which would be summarized, and other
                    papers of a routine nature, which would be noted by title entries.
            As 
                        Clay
                     became more prominent, however, his papers became more voluminous, and the editors
                    wisely decided to relegate more and more of them to the realm of summaries or notations. For the
                    early months of 1827 these summaries are grouped under four headings: Instructions and Dispatches;
                    Miscellaneous Letters; Diplomatic Notes; and Applications, Recommendations. From April on, items
                    that fit the latter category have been omitted. Despite the trimming, this volume is still an
                    unwieldy 1,400 pages in length, three hundred pages longer than any earlier volume.
            Though the editors worked largely from photocopies, the locations of the original documents are
                    carefully noted. Extensive footnotes serve to identify 
                        Clay
                    's correspondents and persons named in letters, to clarify obscure events that
                    were alluded to, and to provide supplemental information to enhance the understanding of
                    today's readers. The compilers are to be commended for the absence of editorial comment.
            The forty-two-page index reveals that during his third year as secretary of state 
                        Clay
                     had considerable correspondence with or about such persons as John Quincy Adams, James
                    Barbour, Simón Bolívar, James Buchanan, George Canning, DeWitt Clinton, Albert
                    Gallatin, Andrew Jackson, Richard Rush, John Sergeant, and Martin Van Buren. Frequently listed
                    topics are Administration Party, Bank of the 
                        United States
                    , Congress of Panama, Federalist Party, and Jackson Party. Though the index also
                    includes William Hendricks, Jonathan Jennings, James Noble, and a few others from Indiana, there is
                    little in this volume that will be uniquely useful to Indiana historians.
            Volume six is the first to appear since 1973, and it is a welcome addition to this very important
                    series, a source which no student of the period can afford to ignore. James F. Hopkins and Mary W.M.
                    Hargreaves served as editors and successively as directors of the 
                        Clay
                     Papers Project from its inception in 1952. Since the completion of this volume, both
                    have retired, but the Papers of Henry Clay will stand as an enduring monument to
                    their scholarship.
            
               Indiana Central University, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                Frederick D. Hill
         
         
         
            
               Polish Catholics in 
                            Chicago
                        , 1850–1920: A Religious History. By Joseph John Parot. (
                        DeKalb
                    : Northern 
                        Illinois
                     University Press, 1981. Pp. xvii, 298. Maps, illustrations, table, notes,
                    bibliographical note, index. Clothbound, $22.50; paperbound, $10.00.)
            Joseph John Parot has written a fascinating account of a major ethnic group and its assimilation into
                    the Catholic church of a major American city before World War I. To the author the central issue is
                    the way in which Polish immigrants struggled to maintain their ethnic heritage when faced with the
                    force of Catholic universality identified with an Irish- or 
                        German
                    -American hierarchy. Parot delves into the role played by the Reverend Vincent Barzynski
                    and other Resurrectionist priests, who staffed or approved appointments to all Polish parishes and
                    defended immigrant interests. Dislike of Resurrectionist dominance and personality conflicts
                    contributed to the only permanent schism in American Catholic history, the Polish National Church.
                    Finally, Parot relates events resulting in the consecration of the first Polish-American bishop,
                    Paul Rhode, and discusses the effects of World War I, the reestablishment of 
                        Poland
                    , and the strong-willed Archbishop George Mundelein on 
                        Chicago
                    's Poles. The study concludes that the national parish phenomenon (worship by
                    ethnic origin) preserved the faith of the immigrant and that religious orders such as the
                    Resurrectionists were indispensable in bridging the gap between the institutional church and the
                    foreign adherent.
            Parot is weakest when providing historical background and data on 
                        Chicago
                    's Poles. He tends to accept Oskar Halecki's nationalistic
                    interpretation of the Polish partitions and Oscar Handlin's romanticization of the
                    immigrant. He explains the szlachta-chlopi rift in 
                        Poland
                     but does not directly relate it to the 
                        Chicago
                     situation. Why did Poles continue to create a religious problem by coming to 
                        Chicago
                     in such great numbers? How did Polish spiritual practices contrast with those of other
                    Catholics? Were national churches actually regionally based, i.e., composed of those from the same
                    town or district in the old country? Did the Resurrectionists gloss over regional differences to
                    strengthen their hand in dealing with the chancery? Were parish societies really family affairs, and
                    how did they function in the national parish? Answers may have to await Parot's sequel on
                    the social development of 
                        Chicago
                    's Poles.
            Religious and ethnic historians will admire this study for its succinct factual reporting and
                    impressive bibliography of  manuscript and published sources.
                    Indiana readers will seek parallels with Polish religious life in northern Indiana (Parot is from 
                        Hammond
                    ) and want to learn about the 
                        Chicago
                     background of the Polish National phenomenon, which also affected 
                        South Bend
                    . Hoosiers may note, however, the author's failure to mention in his survey of 
                        Chicago
                    's ecclesiastical development that it was once part of the 
                        Vincennes
                     diocese.
            
               Marian College of 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                James J. Divita
         
         
            
               Ethnic 
                            Chicago
                        . Edited by Peter d'A. Jones and Melvin G. Holli. (Grand Rapids,
                    Mich.: William B. Eerdmans Publishing Company, 1981. Pp. viii, 384. Tables, figures, illustrations,
                    maps, notes, index. Paperbound, $12.95.)
            
               Ethnic 
                            Chicago
                        
                extends the search for a better understanding of ethnic democracy that editors
                    Peter d'A. Jones and Melvin G. Holli began several years ago with their collection of
                    essays entitled The Ethnic Frontier. In this new study the editors present eight
                    essays that explore the meanings of cultural pluralism and the "melting pot" over
                    time. The history of America's ethnic groups has been, in large measure, an urban
                    experience. As the major urban center of the nation's heartland, 
                        Chicago
                    , with its rich diversity of ethnic groups, provides abundant material for study and
                    analysis.
            Seven of the city's ethnic groups are considered: Germans, Italians, Greeks, Jews,
                    Ukranians, Japanese, and Irish. While Germans and native-born Americans outnumbered the Irish, the
                    success of this group warrants the inclusion of two essays. Michael Funchion reviews "Irish 
                        Chicago
                    " in the late nineteenth century while Paul Green examines the twentieth
                    century's "multiethnic road to machine success" (p. 212). From humble
                    beginnings as laborers digging the 
                        Illinois
                     and 
                        Michigan
                     Canal, the "Irish trinity" of priest, policeman, and politician came
                    to positions of power. In his insightful contribution, Green argues convincingly that it took a
                    Bohemian, Anton J. "Tony" Cermak, to bring unity to the Irish Democrats. The
                    result was an Irish-led political machine composed of Poles, Jews, Bohemians, Italians, blacks, and
                    Irish. From 1933, the year of Cermak's assassination, this machine controlled 
                        Chicago
                     politics through the mayoral administrations of Edward J. Kelly, Martin Kennelly, and
                    Richard J. Daley.
            While the editors have not attempted to present comparative analyses, a number of themes do emerge.
                    One of the most significant patterns in ethnic history is the general improvement  in economic conditions by groups. This understanding is well documented
                    in the impressive accomplishments of the Greeks, Jews, and Japanese of 
                        Chicago
                    . The essays by Andrew T. Kopan, Irving Cutler, and Masako M. Osako, respectively,
                    discuss this phenomenon. Of special interest is the latter study, which includes Osako's
                    reflections on the success of Chinese, as well as Japanese, in adapting to the urban environment.
                    The pattern of movement from city to suburb is evident in the Kopan and Cutler contributions and the
                    study of Italians in the suburb of 
                        Chicago
                     Heights by Dominic Candeloro.
            
               Ethnic 
                            Chicago
                        
                helps dispel the myth of monolithic ethnicity. Diversity, tension, and even
                    discord are major features described in the essays by Funchion on the Irish and by Myron Kuropas on
                    the Ukranians. In a revisionist analysis of the impact of World War I on 
                        German
                     culture, Melvin Holli considers the "de-ethnization" of the
                    city's 
                        German
                     community, which he interprets as a result of the interplay of external events and
                    conflict within the group itself.
            As these essays make clear, ethnic history considers such processes as adjustment, identity, and
                    assimilation. Holli and Jones use a passage from 
                        Israel
                     Zangwill to describe the melting pot as "an all-around give-and-take by which
                    the final type may be enriched or impoverished" (p. 6). This reviewer's
                    disappointment with the absence of a chapter on Scandinavian-Americans is simply a quibble; this
                    book makes a significant contribution to an understanding of urban life in the Midwest and the
                    nation.
            
               Indiana State University 
                            Evansville
                        
                Robert L. Reid
         
         
            
               The Earnest Men: Republicans of the Civil War Senate. By Allan G. Bogue. (
                        Ithaca
                    : Cornell University Press, 1981. Pp. 369. Notes, illustrations, tables, figures,
                    appendixes, index. $28.50.)
            In subject, methods, and conclusions The Earnest Men is an important addition to a
                    substantial and sophisticated literature on the Civil War and Reconstruction. Somewhat distinctive
                    in its focus on the Civil War Senate, this volume is an artful blend of traditional and quantitative
                    forms of analysis. While consistently sensitive to idiosyncracies, Bogue carefully illuminates the
                    broader patterns of Republican factionalism and legislative behavior.
            Beginning with a brief, stylish description of each senator, a prosopographical analysis, and a
                    thoughtful consideration of  Senate structure and procedures,
                    Bogue moves to the difficult task of classifying all Republican senators in this era as radical or
                    moderate. Although nonspecialists may initially cringe at the appearance of indices of disagreement,
                    cluster bloc matrices, and Guttman scales, this reaction should soon be dispelled by the clear
                    explanations and by the judicious and fruitful handling of these statistics. In studying the
                    Thirty-seventh Senate Bogue first identifies eighty-seven roll calls that related to southern
                    issues, presumably the heart of any radical/moderate division. Through clustering and scaling
                    techniques he confirms the existence of these groups and identifies their members. Senators in
                    subsequent sessions are classified in like manner. The analysis reveals that although less important
                    than party conflict, this radical-moderate split was significant (and more so than sectional
                    differences). Second, despite considerable continuity, factional composition did change over time.
                    Third, neither institutional context nor personal background explain much about factional
                    membership.
            In Part II of the volume Bogue describes the substance of disagreement—the debates over
                    168 roll calls that exceeded a minimum level of disagreement. Somewhat predictably, considerable
                    conflict arose over slavery, emancipation, and civil rights, while reconstruction issues sparked
                    passionate but surprisingly brief debate. Also interesting is the factional conflict over subjects
                    rarely considered in this context—courts, loyalty, and Senate self-governance.
            Bogue compensates for over-burdening the reader with descriptions of minor matters (three fourths of
                    all roll calls are reported) with an excellent summary. Radicals, he argues, were somewhat
                    "punitive" (p. 297) toward even loyal southerners, while moderates were
                    "more deeply" racist (p. 299). Radicals emphasized more the federal government and
                    Congress, while moderates esteemed precedent and appealed to the Constitution with an arresting
                    passion. Such attitudes and values, Bogue suggests, fit within a modernization framework, an
                    approach which helps to explain why this division also appeared over nonsouthern issues. This
                    broader context and the excellent model of legislative analysis make this a valuable work not only
                    for period specialists but for a wider audience as well.
            
               Purdue University, West 
                            Lafayette
                        
                Philip R. VanderMeer
         
         
         
            
               Sherman's Other War: The General and the Civil War Press. By John F.
                    Marszalek. (
                        Memphis
                    : 
                        Memphis
                     State University Press, 1981. Pp. x, 230. Notes, bibliographical note, index.
                    $14.95.)
            The American Civil War occasioned an intense struggle between the demands of military commanders for
                    press censorship and the equally strong attempts by newspaper reporters and publishers to protect
                    their right to print news from the battlefield. In his study of the strained relationship between
                    the press and General William T. Sherman, John F. Marszalek argues that Sherman believed the
                    Constitution had to be set aside during the course of the Civil War. Sherman insisted that the
                    military had the right to maintain total secrecy; consequently, the First Amendment was invalid in
                    wartime. Any criticism of the war effort aided the enemy, according to Sherman, and newsmen helped
                    the Confederate cause by printing intelligence and criticizing the army and its leaders, thereby
                    lowering military and public morale. Sherman especially hated the reporters who followed his
                    army's movements, referring to them as "a set of dirty newspaper scribblers who
                    have the impudence of Satan" (p. 81). He blamed newspapers for the sectional split that had
                    brought on the war and once threatened to have any reporter found in his camp arrested "as
                    a spy and… tried by a Court Martial and if possible shot or hung" (p. 81).
            Marszalek's book is divided into seven well-organized chapters that cover the historical
                    development of military-newspaper relations; Sherman's civilian life before the Civil War;
                    the early war years; the military occupation of 
                  Memphis, Tennessee
               ; the
                    court-martial of reporter Thomas Knox; Sherman's march through the South; and
                    Sherman's ill-fated "treaty" with Confederate General Joseph Johnston.
                    The weakest chapter in the volume, ironically, covers press relations on Sherman's famous
                    march to the sea. The first 150 pages of the monograph appear to set the stage for a forceful
                    conclusion, but the treatment of the military-press conflict during the march to the sea does not
                    reflect the dramatic nature of the march itself. Sherman had fought his major battles with the press
                    early in the war, and by 1864 neither antagonist seemed to have the inclination for further
                    editorial conflict.
            The sources used for the study are a skillful blend of Sherman's public and private papers,
                    newspaper accounts, diaries, memoirs, letters, and relevant secondary materials. Each chapter is
                    well documented, although some passages, such  as the discussion
                    of Sherman's alleged "exogenous neurotic depression" (p. 68), are more
                    speculative than substantial. One annoyance is the volume's lack of any illustrations,
                    charts, or maps; they could have made the presentation more graphic.
            Although Marszalek expends much effort trying to establish a "constitutional
                    struggle" framework for the book, he is soon forced to admit that the conflict between
                    Sherman and the press was actually one of personality, not abstract theory. Neither adversary seemed
                    to have a solid understanding of the larger constitutional issues involved in the Civil War that
                    raged around them.
            Just as Sherman and the other military commanders sought to achieve various degrees of press
                    censorship, the Civil War newspaper publishers and their correspondents were equally determined to
                    protect what they considered to be their constitutional guarantees. They battled government
                    restrictions and those military men who tried to enforce them. Since Sherman's antipress
                    activities were so blatant, he was a constant target of intense newspaper criticism. The war within
                    a war exemplified the problems inherent in the universal question of freedom of the press in a
                    democracy at war. Unfortunately for the reader this otherwise perceptive monograph does not offer an
                    adequate understanding of the press during the Civil War years. Too many pages are spent
                    rationalizing the behavior of an obsessed military commander who attempted to instill total
                    censorship over the press, and too few pages are offered to help understand what it meant to be a
                    reporter or a publisher trying to cover the military action of the Civil War.
            
               Indiana Historical Society, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                John W. Miller
         
         
            
               Lives of Their Own: Blacks, Italians, and Poles in 
                            Pittsburgh
                        , 1900–1960. By John Bodnar, Roger Simon, and Michael P. Weber. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1982. Pp. 286. Maps, tables, notes, illustrations, appendixes, index.
                    $22.95.)
            The Bodnar-Simon-Weber study under review is the best monograph on 
                        Pittsburgh
                     ever done. Not only that, it provides a solid methodological model that integrates
                    quantification, oral history, foreign language materials, and major, primary documentary sources in
                    order to illustrate and dissect the complex interrelationship between blacks and white ethnics in
                    the factory neighborhoods they inhabited. The authors are especially  to be commended for utilizing a comparative framework and for examining
                    working-class life from the point of view, or value system, of their subjects.
            If racial friction was more inadvertent, subdued, and less noticeable in 
                        Pittsburgh
                    's boom period, one coinciding with massive Italian and Polish entry into the
                    city, it certainly became more overt and far less accidental during the Depression years and after,
                    when municipal construction ground to a halt. Such is the thesis of "Seven Neighborhoods:
                    Stability and Change, 1930–60," a brilliant and model piece of microhistorical
                    investigation and analysis. The chapter emphasizes that job opportunities, even at the bottom rungs,
                    dried up in the 1930s, especially for blacks, who suffered unemployment rates as high as 43 percent
                    in the Lower Hill area as late as 1940. Blacks, for the most part, thereafter
                    became a permanent renter class in 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , in sharp contrast to the stable homeowner Italians and Poles whose neighborhoods were
                    propped up by dozens of homeowners and building-and-loan associations. When housing transactions
                    were conducted, Italians and blacks more often than not moved to avoid each other.
            The Bodnar-Simon-Weber study insists that the process of white ethnic-black adjustment is much more
                    complex than mere population succession. While never denying the persistence of blatant forms of
                    racism and discrimination in jobs and housing in 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , the authors argue that the white ethnic neighborhood infrastructure and kinship system
                    was more functional in the long run in a toughly competitive industrial city like 
                        Pittsburgh
                    . The strength of white ethnic subsocieties, reaching back to primordial immigrant
                    origins, had more to do with blocking black movement upward than did racial hostility.
            With this concept as their focus Bodnar, Weber, and Simon engage in the still fashionable
                    historiographical pursuit of occupational mobility. The authors constantly reiterate, however, that
                    economic mobility is not always an upward-bound process; that downward mobility
                    frequently occurs (especially for blacks); that kinship patterns are a most significant variable in
                    finding jobs in the first place; that the white immigrant community's interlocking
                    associational structure (church-school-fraternal organization-neighborhood business/commerce) gives
                    such groups as the Italians and Poles a head start over blacks; that aside from racism and
                    discrimination in hiring, powerful and neutral economic factors contributed to heady competition
                    between Poles, Italians, and blacks in the workplace, all of whom were crowding each other at the
                        bottom rungs of the  occupational ladder.
                    Moreover, the race to escape the bottom was directly related to the overall economic health of the
                    entire 
                        Pittsburgh
                     metropolitan area, a "city building" process over which no ethnic or
                    racial group, either individually or collectively, had control.
            Is there anyone out there who might like to apply the Bodnar-Simon-Weber model to northwest Indiana,
                    especially to the Gary-Hammond-East 
                        Chicago
                     immigrant/black industrial complex?
            
               Northern 
                            Illinois
                         University, 
                            DeKalb
                        
                Joseph John Parot
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Oklahoma
                        's Forgotten Indians. Edited by Robert E. Smith. (
                        Oklahoma City
                    : 
                        Oklahoma
                     Historical Society, 1981. Pp. vii, 126. Maps, notes, illustrations, index. Clothbound,
                    $13.50; paperbound, $8.50.)
            The title of this collection of essays is somewhat misleading. It implies a comprehensive treatment
                    of all the lesser-known tribes of 
                        Oklahoma
                    . The slim volume actually provides several brief articles focusing on seven
                    tribes—the Nez Percés, Potawatomis, Peorias, Poncas, Otoes, Modocs, and
                    Wyandots—that were relocated in Indian Territory. Editor Robert E. Smith explains that
                    the essays "are an attempt to present case studies of representative tribes in the hope
                    that they will stimulate further investigation into the reasons why the Indians came to Indian
                    Territory and what happened to them after they arrived" (p. 7). Smith fails, however, to
                    explain the criteria that make these seven tribes any more representative than some of 
                        Oklahoma
                    's other forgotten tribes such as the Senecas, Shawnees, Chippewas, or Ottawas.
            
               
                  
                            Oklahoma
                        's Forgotten Indians is, nevertheless, a useful addition to the field
                    of Native American history. It should be especially helpful to students of Indiana history who would
                    like to investigate the fate of the Wyandots, Potawatomis, and Peorias after they migrated westward
                    from their original homes in the Old Northwest. The book picks up the history of the seven tribes
                    where most historians have left off—when the Indians are placed on reservations. It shows
                    how the federal government often neglected to provide promised aid to the tribes, and it details how
                    the reservation experience frequently drained the Indians' physical and spiritual strength.
            
            Most of the information presented can be found in works already published—even the maps
                    are just reprints from other books—but the significance of this work does not depend on
                    its originality. It is useful because it pulls together information from myriad sources and focuses
                    it on one theme—how migrant Indians were forced to cope with life and death in Indian
                    Territory. The story is a familiar one of broken promises, fraud, disease, and death. But the tribes
                    survived, and so have their stories, thanks to histories such as 
                  
                            Oklahoma
                        's Forgotten Indians.
            
            
               Ball State University, 
                            Muncie
                        
                Richard Aquila
         
         
            
               The Five Dollar Day: Labor Management and Social Control in the Ford Motor Company,
                        1908–1921. By Stephen Meyer III. (
                        Albany
                    : State University of 
                        New York
                     Press, 1981. Pp. x, 249. Tables, notes, selected bibliography, index. Clothbound,
                    $34.00; paperbound, $9.95.)
            Stephen Meyer III has provided the first intensive study of the Progressive Era labor policies of the
                    Ford Motor Company since the investigations of Allan Nevins thirty years ago. Inspired by the
                    writings of contemporary labor historians, Meyer focuses on the interplay between the
                    company's drive to make the labor force more productive and profitable and the resistance
                    of many workers to the company's efforts. Drawing upon sources in the Ford Archives and
                    contemporary periodicals, he significantly expands upon and corrects earlier accounts of this famed
                    experiment.
            Faced with an exploding demand for the Model T and a shortage of costly, skilled labor, Ford
                    engineers devised a series of manufacturing innovations, culminating in the moving assembly line,
                    that increased production and allowed the company to expand employment of unskilled, mainly
                    immigrant, workers engaged in repetitious, quickly learned tasks. In 1914 excessive turnover,
                    absenteeism, and other expressions of dissatisfaction prompted the company to launch the Five Dollar
                    Day, which offered to qualified workers wages nearly double those then current in 
                        Detroit
                    . Qualification depended upon meeting a set of paternalistic standards established by
                    the company's Sociological Department. Investigators fanned out through the city, calling
                    at worker's homes to corroborate statements about marital status, living conditions,
                    savings, debts, recreation, and personal habits. The Five Dollar Day tried to transform workers into
                    cooperative, efficient, docile  operatives. The company also
                    insisted upon the "Americanization" of immigrant workers; in particular they were
                    required to learn English. The Ford English School's graduation pageant, in which
                    immigrants dressed in native costume descended into a "melting pot" and emerged in
                    American dress and waving the American flag, was a remarkable spectacle for that or any other time.
                    Eventually Ford abandoned its ambitious program. Many workers resented the company's prying
                    into their lives, and World War I disrupted the labor market. Continuing worker militancy convinced
                    officials that paternalism had failed. Labor spies, repression, and ultimately the brutality of the
                    Ford Service Department were the company's new response.
            Despite the paucity of sources emanating directly from workers, Meyer has produced a well-researched
                    account. Some may find an overemphasis on cultural at the expense of economic explanations of
                    behavior. Absenteeism, as Meyer's own evidence suggests, stemmed from the availability of
                    jobs in 
                        Detroit
                    's expanding economy as well as from the peasant or premodern origins of the
                    work force. Nevertheless, this is a detailed, convincing, and needed account of an important and
                    fascinating episode in American industrial and labor history.
            
               Oakland University, 
                            Rochester
                        , Mich. John Barnard
         
         
            
               Using Local History in the Classroom. By Fay D. Metcalf and Matthew T. Downey. (
                        Nashville
                    : American Association for State and Local History, 1982. Pp. x, 284. Illustrations,
                    figures, tables, appendixes, notes, index. $17.50.)
            If you are a history teacher able to admit that local history is academically respectable, not afraid
                    of abandoning familiar textbooks, and willing to work as hard as students with non-traditional
                    sources, rejoice! This book is for you. All other teachers should ignore this manual of practical
                    suggestions.
            Metcalf and Downey have taught history for many years in secondary schools and at the University of 
                        Colorado
                    , respectively, and have collaborated on several publications dealing with local history
                    and innovative teaching. They have mastered the terrain and write readably and convincingly about
                    it. From their experience comes this analytical catalog of techniques. Using Local
                        History includes sections on such topics as oral interviewing, local economics and
                    politics, family history, material culture, and quantitative data. The authors discuss the merits of
                    each topic, sources available for study, guidelines for 
                    classroom use, and publications for further reading. Documentation for topics appears in the form of
                    success stories about forays into cemeteries, examinations of old insurance maps, and tours of
                    historic structures. Particularly impressive is the section on public schools as artifacts to study
                    demographic shifts and curricular changes.
            Excitement and intimidation characterize these discussions. It is obvious that these exercises have
                    generated student enthusiasm and have not degenerated into antiquarianism, family worship, and
                    provincialism. It is equally obvious that much hard work is involved in preparing and supervising
                    such class projects.
            Generally the authors are successful, largely due to their pragmatic approach. When they try to unify
                    their suggestions with a consistent intellectual premise, they are less convincing. They frequently
                    maintain that the study of hometown heritage is not enough in itself, that student projects should
                    ideally produce significant results, and that local information should illuminate national trends.
                    The latter, they assert, "is one of the most important reasons for studying local
                    history" (p. 219). This may be so, but could teachers not be satisfied when a student
                    emerges from class with a heightened appreciation for the past because of an interesting contact
                    with a small part of it? That alone is a victory.
            If this book has a second edition in a few years, as it should, certain revisions should be
                    considered. The authors should give the political section the same focus and practicality as the
                    others. Also, heavy dependence on 
                        Colorado
                     for many of the charts and photographs robs the book of a needed universal appeal.
                    Finally, a work which relies on teaching pioneers should cite those pathfinders at the bottom of the
                    page rather than in the back of the book.
            These few criticisms should not diminish the high praise which Metcalf and Downey deserve. Thanks to
                    them there now exists a convenient compendium of ideas previously available only in diffuse
                    pamphlets and articles. This book is a genuine service to enterprising teachers.
            
               Indiana University East, 
                            Richmond
                        
                George T. Blakey
         
         
            
               Historic Preservation: Curatorial Management of the Built World. By James
                    Marston Fitch. (
                        New York
                    : McGraw-Hill Book Company, 1982. Pp. xii, 433. Notes, illustrations, figures, graphs,
                    tables, index. $34.95.)
            
            While he was a professor at 
                        Columbia
                     University, James Marston Fitch devoted over two decades to the development of a
                    curriculum in historic preservation. This volume represents the culmination of that effort. In Historic Preservation Fitch has summed up his lectures and presented a written
                    synthesis of his extensive knowledge. The work provides an overview of the problems associated with
                    "the curatorial management of the built world," which is Fitch's
                    definition of preservation. In his own words the book offers "a holistic theoretical
                    apparatus for a wise and civilized system of solving" these problems (p. xi). In the volume
                    Fitch delves into the ideological confrontations with preservation, assesses the trends and shifts
                    in concern over comparatively recent years, and points out the urgent needs of the field.
            The major contributions of the book stem from the author's firsthand experience in
                    preservation on a broad, international scale. Presumably he has observed the field everywhere in the
                    world except 
                        China
                     and 
                        India
                    . American preservationists are already well acquainted with the history and lessons to
                    be learned from 
                        Mount Vernon
                     and 
                        Williamsburg
                    . Although much valuable information and insight is provided by Fitch's
                    discussion of benchmarks in American preservation, other authors have written extensively on the
                    subject, prominent among them Charles Hosmer. Fitch's exploration of programs abroad will
                    introduce many Americans to hitherto unfamiliar examples of novel approaches to standard problems of
                    the field.
            The perspective that Fitch has gained through study of European programs is particularly valuable.
                    When in his concluding chapter he cites 
                        Czechoslovakia
                     as having the most comprehensive and competent program in the world, this evaluation
                    does not come as a surprise after the numerous examples of remarkable achievements that have been
                    mentioned in the text. The relocation of a fifteenth-century Gothic church in Most, 
                        Czechoslovakia
                    , by moving it intact along two kilometers of railroad tracks, is nothing short of
                    amazing. Two of the most interesting chapters in the book, "Restoration and Maintenance of
                    Historic Landscapes" and "Protection and Interpretation of Sites and
                    Ruins," draw heavily upon the author's experience overseas. Problems that may have
                    been thought to be unique to the American preservation
                    movement—"gentrification," in particular—are demonstrated to
                    be international in scope. Fitch repeatedly cites three European examples that have offered model
                    solutions to the displacement  of the native populace: Le Marais
                    historic district of 
                        Paris
                    ; 
                  Split,
                    Yugoslavia
               ; and 
                  Bologna, Italy
               .
            The major drawback of the book is that it is dated. In the sections on technical problems of
                    conservation of buildings, a concluding sentence or two has been added rather transparently to
                    "update" the material. (A check of references reveals cited articles to be from
                    five to ten years old.) Independence Hall is called "the most recent focus of American
                    expertise in restoration" (p. 104), though it was begun in the mid-1960s and completed for
                    the Bicentennial. The American preservation movement grew in exponential proportions during the
                    1970s, and the author does not appear to have kept apace of recent progress.
            
               
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         Historic Preservation Commission Mary Ellen Gadski
         
         
            History of Religion in Indiana
            Lilly Endowment has made a grant of $67,832 to Indiana University to conduct a survey of
                    resources for the study of the history of religion in Indiana and to prepare a bibliography of such
                    resources for publication.
            Members of the project team have visited and described the Indiana religious history collections at
                    Franklin College, Manchester College, Wabash College, Hanover College, Christian Theological
                    Seminary, and DePauw University. Visits will be arranged and scheduled at Notre Dame, Earlham,
                    Anderson, Goshen, Fort Wayne, and Vincennes. Letters of inquiry about materials held are going to
                    denominational executives, to several Indiana colleges, to denominational archives both in and out
                    of state, and to county historical societies.
            The project team wants very much to produce a bibliography which will be useful and a credit to all
                    concerned. If you know of (1) archival or manuscript materials or special files related to Indiana
                    religious history; (2) printed material related to Indiana religious history; or, (3) a historian or
                    archivist or librarian who ought to be informed about this project, please contact L. C. Rudolph or
                    Judith Endelman, Lilly Library of Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana, 47405 (telephone 812–335–2452).
         
         
         
            Recent Articles, Pamphlets, and Dissertations in Indiana History
            
               Editor's Note. This list of articles, pamphlets, and dissertations
                    published in 1981 and 1982 is intended as a bibliographic contribution to Indiana's
                    history. We hope to present such a list in each March issue of the Indiana Magazine of
                        History. We recognize that the list is neither complete nor systematic in coverage, and we
                    hope that readers will help us by sending items for possible inclusion. We are especially interested
                    in listing publications that make some contribution to understanding Indiana's past but are
                    not normally reviewed in the IMH. Generally, we will not list newspaper articles or accounts of
                    local historical society activities (which are reported in the Indiana History
                    Bulletin), but printed pamphlets as well as journal articles may be listed. All such items for
                    the March, 1984, issue must be received by December 1, 1983. Many people have contributed to the
                    present list, but major responsibility has rested with Robert G. Barrows of the Indiana Historical
                    Bureau and Gary L. Bailey of the Indiana Magazine of History.
            
            
               Bahr, Howard M., "The Perrigo Paper: A Local Influence upon 
                     
                                Middletown
                             in Transition," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXVIII (March,
                        1982).
               Barrows, Robert G., "The 1910 Federal Census: A Note," Indiana
                            Magazine of History, LXXVIII (December, 1982).
               Bartelt, William E., "
                            Vanderburgh County
                         Historic Markers," Indiana History Bulletin, LIX
                        (February, 1982).
               Bigham, Darrel E., "The Black Family in 
                            Evansville
                         and 
                            Vanderburgh County
                        : A 1900 Postscript," Indiana Magazine of History,
                        LXXVIII (June, 1982).
               Bigham, Darrel E., "Family Structure of Germans and Blacks in 
                            Evansville
                         and 
                            Vanderburgh County
                        , Indiana, in 1880: A Comparative Study," Old Northwest,
                        VII (Fall, 1981).
               Bobbs, John S., "Case of Lithotomy of the Gall-Bladder," Indiana Medical History Quarterly, VIII (June, 1982). [Reprinted from the Transactions of the Indiana State Medical Society at Its 18th Annual Session (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1868); annotation supplied by the Quarterly's editors.]
               Bobbs, John S., "The Origins, Objects and Progress of the Indiana State Medical
                        Society," Indiana Medical History Quarterly, VIII (June, 1982).
                        [Reprinted from the Transactions of the Indiana State Medical Society at Its 18th
                            Annual Session (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1868).]
               Braeman, John, "Charles A. Beard: The Formative Years in Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXVIII (June, 1982).
               
               Brill, Robert E., "The Sabbath-Day Summer: 
                            Madison
                        , Indiana, and the 1849 Cholera Epidemic," Indiana Medical
                            History Quarterly, VIII (September, 1982).
               Bruce, Robert V., 
                     
                                Lincoln
                             and the Riddle of Death (
                            Fort Wayne
                        , 1981). [The fourth annual R. Gerald McMurtry Lecture, delivered at the Louis A.
                        Warren Lincoln Library in 
                            Fort Wayne
                        , Indiana, in 1981.]
               Carmichael, Ann G., "The [William] Lindsay-[George W.] Stipp Debate," Indiana Medical History Quarterly, VIII (December, 1981).
               Carver, Bernice, "Original Document, 1832, Comes to Light; Indians Refuse to Go
                        West," 
                            Whitley County
                         Historical Society Bulletin, XIX (December, 1981).
               
                  A Century of Beauty, 1881–1981: The Hill Companies (n.p.,
                        [1981?]). [History of a rose industry leader from 
                            Richmond
                        , Ind.]
               Davis, Gail, "Minister Fondly Recalls Etna Troy Churches," 
                            Whitley County
                         Historical Society Bulletin, XIX (December, 1981).
               Dixon, David J., and Clay W. Stuckey, "‘The Bandstand That Never Was [at
                        West Baden Springs Hotel],’" Indiana History Bulletin, LIX
                        (May, 1982).
               
                  
                     
                                Dublin
                            , 1830–1980: Pictorial and Descriptive History of 
                                Dublin
                            , Indiana (
                            Dublin
                        , Ind., 1980).
               Engel, J. Ronald, "Sacred Sands: The Civil Religion of the Indiana Dunes,"
                            Landscape, XXV (No. 1, 1981).
               Ethridge, Kenneth E., "The Agony of the 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                            ," American Heritage, XXXIII (August/September, 1982).
               Filler, Louis, "Hoosier David Graham Phillips:
                        ‘Radical’?—‘Conservative’?," Old Northwest, VII (Winter, 1981–1982).
               "
                            Fort Wayne
                         Postcards," Old Fort News, XLV (No. 1, 1982).
               Gehring, Wes D., "Kin Hubbard's Abe Martin: A Figure of Transition in
                        American Humor," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXVIII (March, 1982).
               Giddens, Paul H., "Writing a Corporate History [of Standard Oil Company (Indiana)]: A
                        Personal Memoir," Journal of the 
                                Illinois
                             State Historical Society, LXXIV (Spring, 1981).
               Giffin, Marjie Gates, Water Runs Downhill: A History of the 
                                Indianapolis
                             Water Company and Other Centenarians (
                            New York
                        , 1981). [A condensation of the company's centennial history.]
               Goodall, Hurley C., "Indiana's Black Heritage: Why Is It
                        Important?" Black History News and Notes, No. 10 (August, 1982).
               
               Haffner, Gerald O., The Glass Industry of New 
                                Albany
                            
                   (New 
                            Albany
                        , Ind., 1982). [Commissioned by the 
                            Floyd County
                         Historical Society; printed by the Indiana University Southeast Bookstore.]
               Hall, Sidney G., Ill, "Camp Morton: A Model Prison?" Indiana
                            Military History Journal, VI (May, 1981).
               Handfield, Gerald, "The Future and Oral History in Indiana: A Case Study of Problems,
                        Probabilities, and Homemakers," Indiana Academy of the Social Sciences Proceedings, XVI (1981).
               Hanners, John, "Edwin Booth in 
                            Terre Haute
                        , Indiana, April, 1873," Indiana History Bulletin, LIX
                        (April, 1982).
               Hartman, Grover L., "The Hoosier Sunday School: A Potent Religious/Cultural
                        Force," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXVIII (September, 1982).
               Hawfield, Michael C., "Hidden From History: The Women of 
                            St. Joseph County
                         (Part I: 1820–1865)," Old Courthouse News,
                        XVI (Spring, 1982).
               Hawfield, Michael C., "Judge Elisha Egbert, An Unsung Pioneer," Old Courthouse News, XV (Winter, 1981).
               Hazelrigg, Charles, "Central State Hospital," Indiana Medical
                            History Quarterly, VII (September, 1981).
               Heller, Herbert H., Historic 
                                Henry County
                            . Vol. I, 1820–1849 (
                            New Castle
                        , 1981); Vol. II, 1850–1879 ([
                            New Castle
                        ?], 1982).
               Henderson, Ed, History of the Citizens State Bank, 
                                Hartford City
                            , Indiana, 1872–1980 (n.p., n.d.).
               Hendricks, Sylvia C., "Indiana: 60 Years on Center," 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Sunday Star Magazine, March 7, 1982. [Discusses location of the
                        nation's center of population in Indiana.]
               Hinckley, Ted C., "The Influence of an 1860's Indiana Boyhood in the
                        Regeneration of a Manhattan Street Arab," Old Northwest, VII (Spring,
                        1981).
               Holmes, Maurice, 
                     
                                Shelbyville
                            , Ind., Newspaper Items, 1860–1862 ([
                            Shelbyville
                        , Ind.?], 1981).
               Houk, Andrew K., Sr., 
                     
                        Jamestown,
                                    Boone County
                     , Indiana: Sesquicentennial,
                            1830–1980 ([
                            Jamestown
                        , Ind.?], 1980).
               Howard, John L., "The Mineral Waters of 
                            Orange County
                        ," Indiana Medical History Quarterly, VIII (March, 1982).
                        [Reprinted from the Transactions of the Indiana State Medical Association,
                        1905.]
               Janis, Ralph, "
                            Middletown
                         Revisited: Searching for the Heart of Mid-America," Indiana
                            Magazine of History, LXXVIII (December, 1982).
               
               Jedan, Dieter, "Joseph Neef: Innovator or Imitator?" Indiana
                            Magazine of History, LXXVIII (December, 1982).
               Joachim, Martin D., "Governor Joseph A. Wright, Librarian," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXVIII (September, 1982).
               Kirby, J. Randolph, "
                            Ft. Wayne
                         Common School Crusaders: The Struggle for Free Schooling in 1857," Old Fort News, XLIV (No. 4, 1981).
               Langsam, Miriam Z., et al., eds., "[Civil War] Diary of a 
                            Dublin
                         [
                            Wayne County
                        ] Boy," Indiana Military History Journal, VII (January,
                        1982).
               Larew, Karl Garret, "The Civil War Diary of Garret Larew," Indiana Military History Journal, VII (October, 1982).
               Larkins, Chester L., comp. and ed., Memories of Growing Up in the Midwest
                        (Leawood, 
                            Kansas
                        , 1982).
               Lawrence, Marjorie Kahl, This is the Way It Used To Be in the Early
                            1900's [in 
                            Clinton County
                        ] ([
                            Frankfort
                        , Ind.], 1981).
               Leone, Lyn, "Studebaker and the 
                            Indianapolis
                         500 Race," Old Courthouse News, XVI (Summer, 1982).
               Lovrich, Nicholas P., Jr., Byron W. Daynes, and Laura Ginger, "Public Policy and the
                        Effects of Historical-Cultural Phenomena: The Case of Indiana," Publius, X (Spring, 1980).
               Lyles, Carl, "The Story of Lyles Station, [
                            Gibson County
                        ] Indiana; Yesterday and Today," Black History News and
                        Notes, No. 11 (November, 1982).
               McDaniel, Dennis K., "Water Over Water: Hoosier Canal Culverts,
                        1832–1847," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXVIII
                        (December, 1982).
               McHenry, Chris, The Best Men of Westmoreland; An Historical Account of the Lochry
                            Expedition (
                            Lawrenceburg
                        , Ind., 1981).
               Mears, G.W., "Biographical Sketch of John S. Bobbs, M.D.," Indiana Medical History Quarterly, VIII (June, 1982). [Reprinted from the Transactions of the Indiana State Medical Society, 1871.]
               Melvin, Patricia Mooney, "Steamboats West: The Legacy of a Transportation
                        Revolution," Old Northwest, VII (Winter, 1981–1982).
                        [Contains information and pictures regarding the Howard Shipyard in 
                            Jeffersonville
                        .]
               Mohl, Raymond A., and Neil Betten, "The Immigrant Church in Gary, Indiana: Religious
                        Adjustment and Cultural Defense," Ethnicity, VIII (March, 1981).
               
               Mullin, Marsha, and Geoffrey Huys, "Industrial History on Exhibit: How to Research,
                        Collect and Display Industrial Artifacts," History News, XXXVII (May,
                        1982). [Authors use many examples and illustrations based on their work at Discovery Hall museum
                        in 
                            South Bend
                        .]
               Neely, Mark E., Jr., "‘Perfidious Whig Rascals’: A Businessman
                        Runs for Congress in 
                            Fort Wayne
                        , 1847," Old Fort News, XLIV (No. 1, 1981).
               Noble, Vergil E., Jr., "Excavating Fort Ouiatenon, A French Fur Trading
                        Post," Archaeology, XXXV (March/April, 1982).
               
                  
                     
                                Ontario
                             Corporation—A History (1955–1981) (
                            Muncie
                        , Ind., 1981).
               Ray, Scott, "The Depressed Industrial Society: Occupational Movement, Out-Migration
                        and Residential Mobility in the Industrial-Urbanization of 
                            Middletown
                        , 1880–1925" (Ph.D. dissertation, Ball State University, 1981).
               Reed, James S., "Clark Wissler: A Forgotten Influence in American
                        Anthropology" (Ph.D. dissertation, Ball State University, 1980).
               Renshaw, Mary, "Hidden from History: The Women of 
                            St. Joseph County
                         (Part II: 1865–1920)," Old Courthouse News,
                        XVI (Fall, 1982).
               "Richard Corbaley Diary, 1855," 
                     
                                Marshall County
                             Historical Society Quarterly, XI (January, July-October, 1982). [Diary of 
                            Marshall County
                         resident.]
               Richards, Wilhelmina and Clifford, eds., "The Recollections of Susan Man
                        McCulloch," Old Fort News, XLIV (No. 3, 1981).
               Robbins, Coy D., "An Early Black Community [Lick Creek] in 
                            Orange County
                        ," Black History News and Notes, No. 8 (February, 1982),
                        No. 9 (May, 1982).
               Roberts, George C., "Woodrow Wilson, John W. Kern, and the 1916 Indiana Election:
                        Defeat of a Senate Majority Leader," Presidential Studies Quarterly,
                        X (Winter, 1980).
               Roberts, Warren E., "Hoosier, Yankee, and Yoho: Some Comments on Family Names in
                        Indiana," 
                     
                                Kansas
                             Quarterly, XIII (Spring, 1981).
               Ronsheim, Robert, "Christmas at Conner 
                            Prairie
                        : Reinterpreting a Pioneer Holiday," History News, XXXVI
                        (December, 1981).
               Rose, Gregory S., "The Southern-ness of Hoosierdom: The Nativity of Settlement Groups
                        in Indiana by 1850" (Ph.D. dissertation, 
                            Michigan
                         State University, 1981).
               
               Ruddick, Rodger D., The History of Hayden and 
                                Spencer
                             Township [
                            Jennings County
                        ] (n.p., 1981).
               Rushton, Jay C., "Anthony Wayne and the Indian Campaign,
                        1792–1794," Indiana Military History Journal, VII (May,
                        1982).
               
                  St. Pius' Parish, 
                                Troy
                            , Indiana, 1847–1947, 1947–1981 (
                            Troy
                        , Ind., 1981).
               Sanford, Wayne L., "Battle of Bud Dajo: 6 March 1906," Indiana
                            Military History Journal, VII (May, 1982). [Experiences of a Hoosier, Vinton B. Hill,
                        with the army in the Philippines.]
               Schuette, Kent T., 
                     
                                Williamsport
                             ‘81: An Overview (
                            Warren County
                         Historical Society, 
                            Williamsport
                        , Ind., 1981).
               Schultz, George F., "Vast Audience Hears McDonald at the Courthouse," 
                            Whitley County
                         Historical Society Bulletin, XIX (December, 1981). [Deals with
                        Civil War officer Isaiah Burritt McDonald.]
               Smith, Artemus, "Memories of Back Woods in the Forties… The Eighteen
                        Forties," The Studebaker Family, 4 (Winter, 1982). [Reminiscences of
                        author's early life in Indiana, primarily covering the 1840s.]
               Stephens, Jane, "May Wright Sewall: An Indiana Reformer," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXVIII (December, 1982).
               Stielow, Frederick, "Health and Pleasure Seekers at the [Mineral] Springs of Indiana:
                        Pamphlet Literature in the Library of Congress," Indiana Medical History
                            Quarterly, VIII (March, 1982).
               Stutzman, Raymond H., "Harvey 
                            Washington
                         Wiley: A Famous Hoosier and ‘The Father of Pure Food,’
                        " Indiana Medical History Quarterly, VII (December, 1981).
               Sullivan, Jim, "Albert Listenberger, 
                            South Bend
                        's Daring Young Man," Old Courthouse News, XVI
                        (Summer, 1982).
               Sullivan, Jim, "Potawatomis and the Military History of North America," Old Courthouse News, XV (Winter, 1981).
               Thompson, Donald D., and Lorna Lutes Sylvester, eds., "The Autobiography of Isaac
                        Reed, Frontier Missionary," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXVIII
                        (September, 1982).
               Thornbrough, Emma Lou, ed., This Far By Faith: Black Hoosier Heritage (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1982).
               Trusty, Lance, Town on the Ridge: A History of Munster, Indiana (
                            Hammond
                        , Ind., 1982).
               Wakefield, Larry, "[Al] Capone and the Indiana Connection," 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Sunday Star Magazine, November 21, 1982.
               
               Walsh, Margaret, "From Pork Merchant to Meat Packer: The Midwestern Meat Industry in
                        the Mid-Nineteenth Century," Agricultural History, LVI (January,
                        1982).
               Warnes, Kathy, "Hoosier Yellow Fever Hero [John Kissinger]," 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Sunday Star Magazine, November 21, 1982.
               Welsh, James M., "Booth Tarkington and Hollywood: From Fiction to Film," Indiana Social Studies Quarterly, XXXIV (Autumn, 1981).
               Wente, Phyllis Jean, "Value and Use of Oral History in Business," in Jeremy
                        Atack, ed., Business and Economic History, second series, volume 10 (
                            Urbana
                        -
                            Champaign
                        , Ill., 1981). [Deals with Eli Lilly and Company.]
               Wilkinson, W.C., "Private John Jones in the War of 1812," Indiana Military History Journal, VII (January, 1982). [Jones was from 
                            Ohio
                         during the period 1812–1814, but settled in 
                            Warren County
                        , Indiana, in 1827.]
               Williams, James W., "The 
                            Indianapolis
                         Police, 1820–1883: A Case Study of the Social Control Perspective in
                        Recent Historiography" (Ph.D. dissertation, Indiana University, 1981).
               Winters, Donald L., "Agricultural Tenancy in the Nineteenth-Century Middle West: The
                        Historiographical Debate," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXVIII
                        (June, 1982).
               Yeager, Florence, "A Physician-Geologist [Arthur J. Phinney] in the Gas Boom
                        Era," Indiana Medical History Quarterly, VII (December, 1981).
               Zink, Steven D., ed., " ‘if I was thare I could tel you A good bit
                        more’: The Civil War Letters of Private Jackson Davis," Indiana
                            Magazine of History, LXXVIII (March, 1982).
            
         
      
      
         
         
         
      
   
