
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 37, Issue 4, pages 306-416. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:37+issue:4+year:1941&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Indiana Looks at the World War, 1914
            CEDRIC C. CUMMINS
            
            The people of the 
                        United States
                    , during the World War and for a few years afterward, were confident that their martial
                    efforts had been noble and necessary. But in the early Twenties doubts began to appear, and in the
                    succeeding years they came to view their part in that war in a more cynical light. Shocked at what
                    they read in the "Now It Can Be Told" exposures, many declared that the country
                    had been caught in a diabolically clever web woven by British propagandists.1 By
                    quoting trade statistics and a letter of Ambassador Walter H. Page, others sought to show that the 
                        United States
                     became a belligerent in order to insure the continuance of a foreign loan-fed war
                    prosperity. Some felt that the 
                        United States
                     had gone to war to protect the loans of international bankers, and another school
                    attributed the action of the 
                        United States
                     to the influence of munition makers seeking more blood money.2 A
                    further group believed that the explanation was to be found by a psychological study which would
                    trace the progressive stages of Wilson's mind from 1914 to 1917, with perhaps some
                    attention 
                  
                     1 Harold D. Lasswell, Propaganda Technique in the World
                                War (
                                New York
                            , 1927); Harry E. Barnes, In Quest of Truth and Justice (
                                Chicago
                            , 1928); George S. Viereck, Spreading Germs of Hate (
                                New York
                            , 1930); Horace C. Peterson, Propaganda for War, The Campaign
                                Against American Neutrality, 1914–1917 (
                                Norman
                            , 
                                Oklahoma
                            , 1939).
                  
                     2 For discussions of the economic causes see Clinton H. Grattan, Why We Fought (
                                New York
                            , 1929); Alexander D. Noyes, War Period of American Finance,
                                1908–1925 (
                                New York
                            , 1926); Benjamin H. Williams, Economic Foreign Policy of the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1929); Ryllis A. Goslin (ed.), War Tomorrow—Will We
                                Keep Out (Headline Books of the Foreign Policy Association, 
                                New York
                            , 1935); Charles C. Tansill, America Goes to War (
                                Boston
                            , 1938). Journalists, clergymen, lecturers, and teachers were even more emphatic
                            and dogmatic in proclaiming the various economic theses throughout the post-war years than
                            were these professional writers.
               
                     to Robert Lansing and Colonel Edward M. House.3 It is important to note that no matter which of these interpretations or combination of
                    interpretations was accepted, the average individual was placed in the unhappy and uncomplimentary
                    role of a dupe. The only compensating thought for him was that if he had been tricked into war then
                    the responsibility for that war was not his.
            Another zeitgeist has come around, however, and a reevaluation of the cause of
                    American action in 1917 has begun. It is too soon to predict whether this movement will stop at
                    correcting the over simplification and dogmatism of the previous period or will return to the
                    earlier excessive romanticism and chauvinism. Whatever its ultimate fate, the new spirit has already
                    performed one service by placing a large share of the responsibility for participation in the World
                    War on the general public. If that participation was wise the mass of citizens of 1914 to 1917
                    deserve much of the credit; if it was a grievous mistake they must shoulder a corresponding portion
                    of the blame. In the following pages an attempt is made to trace the attitudes of a somewhat typical
                    group of Middle Westerners through the early months of the War.
            The fateful assassination of Archduke Francis Ferdinand at Sarajevo on June 28, 1914, attracted
                    erable attention throughout Indiana. But no extraordinary significance was attached to the event,
                    and it was generally regarded as just another murder of a foreign aristrocrat. By the third day the
                    news was shifted to an inside page of the papers and by July 4 disappeared entirely, to remain so
                    for three weeks. Therefore, the Austrian ultimatum of July 23 came as a surprise and caught the
                    public mentally unprepared for the subsequent developments.
            War followed with a rush, and as it leaped from country to country, the Middle Westerners watched its
                    progress in hypnotized horror. Beyond doubt, the first major reaction toward the European strife was
                    one of deep shock that such things could be. Some called it Armageddon while others used
                    Sherman's pithy definition, but practically all agreed 
                  
                     3 Paxton Hibben and Clinton H. Grattan, Peerless
                            Leader (
                                New York
                            , 1929); Mark Sullivan, Our Times, 1900–1925 (6
                            vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1926–1935), V (1933), Over Here; Walter Millis,
                                Road to War (
                                Boston
                            , 1935); Alex M. Arnett, Claude Kitchin and the Wilson War
                            Policies (
                                Boston
                            , 1937); Tansill, America Goes to War.
                  
               
                     that the war was "the most gigantic, most bloody, and
                    most disastrous" development of modern times.4 An
                    "unchristian, barbarous, brutal relic of the dark ages," made more terrible by the
                    use of modern weapons, had been called upon to "settle questions of state on the basis of
                    which side can pile up the dead and wounded the highest."5
                    "Death and disaster, unparalleled, unprecedented, and immeasurable" were certain
                    to result.6 "The cry that rang through 
                        Egypt
                     will soon be heard in Europe. ‘There was not a house where there was not one
                    dead’—So it was of old, so it shall be again…. A month ago, no one
                    … could in the wildest delirium have dreamed that such a crime against God and man was
                    possible. Now men are asking themselves whether there is after all, such a thing as
                        civilization."7 It was all too terrifying to be real.
                    "It's in the picture books…. It's a bad dream in the night. It
                    couldn't happen. It is a great illusion. It is impossible."8
            
            The war was real enough, however, and some explanation had to be found for the anachronistic
                    happenings. From all parts of the state and from all classes came the simultaneous
                    response—the institution of monarchy with its attendant militarism and secret diplomacy
                    is the culprit. With virtual unanimity it was asserted that the war had not been willed by the
                    people but by their rulers in pursuance of personal policies of revenge or ambition, and that the
                    public went unwillingly to battle or with an enthusiasm which they had been tricked and trained into
                    adopting by present slogans and past schooling.9 It was felt that, whereas the
                    souls of emperors and commoners were cast in the same mold, the reasons that made for wrangles
                    between neighbors caused war between princes. But in the latter case, though it was a
                    King's war, it was a peasant's fight. Therein lay the rub. It was a
                    shame—practically every vocal Hoosier vowed—that the rulers couldn't
                    be made to fight their own battles and break their own heads. "Chic" Jackson left
                    a guide for the 
                  
                     4 New 
                                Albany
                            , Indiana, Ledger Standard, August 2, 1914, p. 2.
                  
                     5 North Judson, Indiana, News, August 27, 1914, p.
                            4.
                  
                     6
                            
                                Evansville
                            , Indiana, Journal-News, August 3, 1914, p. 8.
                  
                     7
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, August 4, 1914, p. 6.
                  
                     8
                            
                                Chicago
                            
                            Tribune, August 6, 1914, p. 6.
                  
                     9
                            
                                Madison
                            , Indiana, Courier, August 4, 1914, p. 2; 
                                Connersville
                            , Indiana, Evening News, August 4, 1914, p. 4; Liberty,
                            Indiana, Herald, August 6, 1914, p. 4; 
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, Tribune, August 6, 1914, p. 6.
               
                     future researcher when he recorded the following conversation
                    between two of his comic strip creations: 
                        
                     
                        (Ira)
                        "And who bears th' brunt of it? Tell me that! Does the King, the
                                    Czar, the Kaiser? No!"
                     
                     
                        (Roger Bean)
                        "Wope! Just uh minute, Ira. I know what yer gonta' say and
                                    please don't say it, 'cause I've heard it eight times
                                    since breakfast."10
                        
                     
                  
                    
            
            This overly simplified view as to the cause of the war was in the prevailing spirit of optimism, for
                    it presumed the essential goodness and perfectibility of the mass of mankind and sheered away from
                    all hints that war might be the incurable result of homo sapiens'
                    inherent moral and mental deficiencies. Furthermore, to put so much guilt on monarchy was to praise
                    democracy, and a wave of democratic testifying swept the land.11 A rediscovery
                    of the merits of popular government was made, and much that had come to be taken for granted was
                    clothed with new meaning. Platitudes came to life, and copy book phrases became fighting phrases.
                    Struck by the spirited criticism directed at the reigning monarchs, one observer wrote,
                    "Over night our people have revived all the revolt against the throne which inspired so
                    avidly our war of independence. Even the old phrases of revolutionary days are heard on tongues that
                    have known them only in school books. The man in the street is voicing [pledges to
                    democracy]…. They come in the newspapers in every mail. They compose the one clear and
                    strong reaction from the war."12
            
            Allied to this resurgence of democracy was a temporary sharp reaction against militarism and
                    "jingoism" at home and abroad. The European strife was widely accepted as proof
                    that large military establishments were detrimental to peace, and former advocates of such in
                    America found themselves severely criticized. "Watchful Waiting" and
                    "grape-juice diplomacy" were probably more popular during this August than at any
                    previous or future time, and the Democrats hastened to compare Wilson's patience toward
                    Mexico with the precipitate action of various European chancellories.13
            
            
               
                  10
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, August 16 1914, Hoosier and City Life Section, p. 1.
               
                  11
                        
                            Hammond
                        , Indiana, 
                     
                                Lake County
                             News, August 13, 1914, p. 2; 
                            Newcastle
                        , Indiana, Daily Times, August 8, 1914, p. 4.
               
                  12
                        
                            Chicago
                        
                        Evening Post, August 7, 1914, p. 6.
               
                  13
                        
                            Vincennes
                        , Indiana, Western Sun, August 7, 1914, p. 4; 
                            Louisville
                        , 
                            Kentucky
                        , Times, August 15, 1914, p. 6.
            
            
            To these reactions can be added still another. From the time the Austrian ultimatum was first
                    announced the majority of the people of Indiana gave their sympathy to the Entente powers. There
                    were two outstanding and clearly distinguishable reasons for this attitude. The first was the nature
                    of the governments of 
                        Austria
                     and 
                        Germany
                    , or at least the local conception of them. The result of the newly accentuated affinity
                    for democracy and antipathy for autocrats described on previous pages created a deep antagonism
                    toward the Central Powers and good will for the Entente nations, Russia excepted. It would have been
                    unnatural and a cause for alarm regarding the virility of the American democratic spirit if it had
                    been otherwise. As a 
                        Richmond
                     editor put it, "Americans cannot help but feel that one of the great issues in
                    the struggle is popular government. If 
                        Germany
                     is victorious, an attempt will be made to Prussianize Europe which will deter the
                    progress of democracy many years."14 The 
                        New Castle
                    
                    Daily Times explained that the strong American sentiment against 
                        Germany
                     was "not against the German people or their cause, but because the Kaiser and
                    his royal authority are so foreign to American institutions. The fact that 
                        France
                     is a republic and that 
                        England
                    's ruler is wholly dependent on the House of Commons for his authority make
                    these governments nearer our own form. That this creates a bond of sympathy is evidenced by the fact
                    that there is no sentiment in this country in favor of Russia and its autocratic
                        government."15 "Dynasties dared Democracies. There are
                    some strange alliances among the forces of Democracy, but the issue is clear," averred the 
                        South Bend
                    
                    Tribune.
               16 The friends of 
                        Germany
                     sometimes objected that the economic and social legislation, inspired by Bismarck, made
                    the German workman a freer man, de facto, than was his American brother who had a
                    wider franchise but no old age insurance. But to the Middle Westerners of 1914, freedom meant
                    essentially political freedom, and Monarchial Socialism was but little understood or liked.
            Illiberalism was not the only disliked attribute that the 
                  
                     14
                            
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana, Palladium, August 15, 1914, p. 4.
                  
                     15
                            
                                Newcastle
                            , Indiana, Daily Times, August 21, 1914, p. 4.
                  
                     16
                            
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, Tribune, August 6, 1914, p. 6.
               
                     contemporaries ascribed to the governments of 
                        Austria
                     and 
                        Germany
                    . It was believed that they were imbued with an aggressive militarism that manifested
                    itself in periodic saber rattling and a general chip-on-the-shoulder attitude. "Prussian
                    Militarism" and its leader and prototype, Kaiser Wilhelm, came in for special criticism.
                    With his spiked helmet, army cloak, upturned mustache, sword, boots, spurs, and grim visage, the
                    Kaiser became the living incarnation of the American conception of a Prussian War Lord. And worse
                    yet, as one Methodist minister told his flock, many were convinced that he had "a
                    pronounced degree of insanity."17 His considerable ability was never
                    appreciated in America, and he was known largely for his bombastic warlike utterances and his
                    ostentatious manner of addressing God. The latter point was subject to particular censure in
                    evangelistic Indiana, and there is no more striking example of the resourcefulness of German
                    diplomatic inaptitude than the ability of the Protestant Kaiser to alienate Protestant America by
                    his method of calling on God. In brief, the toast "Hoch! Der Kaiser!" carried
                    approximately the same connotation to that more sensitive generation that "Heil
                    Hitler!" did to a later one. A derogatory poem with this toast as its title was much quoted
                    at the time, the opening stanza of which will serve to indicate its nature. 
                        Der Kaiser of dis Faderland
                        Und Gott on high all dings command,
                        Ve two—Ach! Don't you understand?
                        Myself—und Gott.18
                  
                    
            
            The second reason for local Allied sympathy was that an examination of the crisis events on their own
                    merits seemed to brand 
                        Austria
                     and 
                        Germany
                     as initiators of the war. Surface appearances, at least, were against them, for they
                    had issued most of the ultimatums and war declarations. The reactions on this score can best be made
                    clear by a chronological summary of events. The Dual Monarchy, on June 28, had dissolved one aspect
                    of the diplomatic crisis by a declaration of war on Serbia. The local response was instantaneous and
                    definite. Big 
                        Austria
                    -
                        Hungary
                    , it was said, had 
                  
                     17 Rev. Fred M. Stone of Central Avenue M. E. Church, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , in 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana Daily Times, August 10, 1914, p. 5.
                  
                     18
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, August 4, 1914, p. 6; 
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, News-Times, August 6, 1914, p. 4.
               
                     "deliberately and wilfully" forced war on
                    little Serbia.19 Attention swung next to 
                        Germany
                     and Russia as they prepared for and then entered the conflict. The governments of both
                    countries were unpopular in Indiana, but the picture of Russia coming to the aid of ill-used
                    "little brother" Serbia caught hold sufficiently to keep opinion leaning slightly,
                    but unmistakably, toward the two Slav states.20 When 
                        Germany
                     declared war on 
                        France
                     two days later this partisanship was considerably strengthened, and locally prepared
                    headings told of "War-Mad 
                        Germany
                    " in conflict with a 
                        France
                     in which "Patriotic Spirit Runs High."21 The
                    German occupation of Luxemburg and the invasion of 
                        Belgium
                     seemed to be but new editions of the spectacle of big 
                        Austria
                     against little Serbia plus an open treaty violation, and the public reacted
                        accordingly.22 Because Great Britain's peace efforts had been
                    widely publicized and applauded and because the 
                        United States
                     was drawn to her by ties of language, race, and culture patterns, her participation at
                    the close of August 4 brought an added stimulus to the pro-Ally pulse (Irish and Anglophobes
                        excepted).23
            
            As a matter of fact, public opinion at this point (about August 4) and for the following week or ten
                    days was more pronounced and more united against the Central Powers than it was to be again prior to
                    the sinking of the Lusitania. Individuals who were later to become much more circumspect in
                    statement now blurted out their feelings, and even politicians were found who were willing to make a
                    categorical declaration. "No amount of special pleading," a typical summary ran,
                    "can alter the judgment of mankind. 
                        Germany
                     and 
                        Austria
                     could have prevented this war by refusing to take the first foolish step."24 A usually restrained weekly noted approvingly that the "expression
                    is generally heard that 
                        Germany
                     ought to be wiped off the map."25 It should be noted that
                    the effect of British censorship, propaganda 
                  
                     19
                            
                                Lafayette
                            , Indiana, Courier, July 31, 1914, p. 4.
                  
                     20
                            Ibid., July 31, 1914, p. 4; 
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, News-Times, August 3, 1914, p. 4.
                  
                     21
                            
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, Tribune, August 3, 1914, p. 6; Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , Indiana, Journal-Gazette, August 5, 1914, p. 4.
                  
                     22
                            Ibid., August 5, 1914, p. 4; 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Journal, August 5, 1914, p. 14.
                  
                     23
                            
                                Evansville
                            , Indiana, Courier, August 8, 1914, p. 6; 
                                Goshen
                            , Indiana, News-Times, August 11, 1914, p. 2.
                  
                     24
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, August 5, 1914, p. 6.
                  
                     25 Waterloo, Indiana, Press, August 13, 1914, p.
                        4.
               
                     efforts, and cutting of the German cable (August 5) had not as
                    yet been materially felt. In the main, these first reactions had been undirected and spontaneous
                    individual expressions of belief made by Americans emotionally moved. The brusqueness of German
                    diplomacy, so fatally demonstrated by the "scrap of paper" statement, was putting
                    her case in the worst possible light.
            Before leaving this first crest of anti-German feeling, it should be noted that there was no
                    discernible demand that anything be done about it. For all the sympathy for 
                        Belgium
                    , there was no suggestion that America join in her protection. Nor did the public expect
                    to be compelled to fight by reason of a direct challenge by one of the combatants, or be drawn in by
                    forces beyond their control, for that age did not recognize any such forces. The vast majority never
                    doubted but that they could will war or peace. They expected to live "strictly and
                        impartially"26 by the rules which international law provided for
                    such times, and watch the big show from an unexposed position. Perhaps these attitudes were in part
                    due to two common predictions of the neighborhood strategists, (1) 
                        Germany
                     would be defeated27 and (2) the conflict would be short. As to the
                    latter, modern warfare was expected to be so expensive and voracious that it must come to an early
                    end for sheer lack of anything further on which to feed. The 
                        Salem
                    
                    Democrat said "three to four weeks"28 while
                    the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star judged that it would probably be over before spring.29
            
            As the war rolled deeper into 
                        Belgium
                    , however, and the armies half vanished into the mists of censorship, this strong
                    anti-German feeling moderated considerably. From July 24 to August 5 each event had appeared to
                    result solely from the preceding one. But as the crisis receded there was a tendency to dismiss the
                    details and say that the war was a test of strength between the Triple Alliance and the Triple
                    Entente—that and nothing more. Furthermore, German-Americans, Hungarians, and Irish
                    hastened to present pro-German and anti-English views in the foreign language and 
                  
                     26
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, August 5, 1914, p. 6.
                  
                     27
                            
                                Marion
                            , Indiana, Chronicle, August 15, 1914, p. 4; 
                                Crawfordsville
                            , Indiana, Journal, August 10, 1914, p. 8.
                  
                     28
                            
                                Salem
                            , Indiana, Democrat, August 19, 1914, p. 2.
                  
                     29
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, August 6, 1914, p. 8. Another editorial, however, predicted a long
                            war.
               
                     religious press, in individual letters to other editors, and in
                    corporate resolutions. Delegates came in person, and letters came in the mail to the editorial
                    sanctums presenting the cause of the Central Powers and asking that the paper shed its pro-Ally
                    bias. Ministers discovered that some of the congregation did not like those barbs that had been so
                    earnestly cast from the pulpit at the "war mad" Kaiser, and when the politician
                    lowered his eyes from heaven and his ear to the ground, he became disquietingly conscious of the
                    "German vote," the "Irish vote," and the "Hungarian
                        vote."30 What, after all, was a world war when the election of
                    county sheriff was but three months away?
            The increasing role of "barbaric" Russia and the entrance of
                    "yellow" 
                        Japan
                     on the side of the Allies were still other factors in moderating American opinion. The
                    1914 generation distrusted 
                        Japan
                     as a matter of habit, and her belligerency had, as one writer noted, "arrested
                    the on-sweeping flood of public opinion in this country favorable to the Allies."31 Friends of the Central Powers seized their opportunity to picture 
                        Germany
                     as the defender of white civilization and publicize the threat of the Yellow Peril to
                    the 
                        United States
                    . They declared the Philippines, 
                        Hawaii
                    , Mexico, and even 
                        California
                     to be in danger, and took special pains to point out that it was 
                        England
                     who had loosed the yellow flood. "If there is a just God," proclaimed
                    one of their number, "He will look after 
                        England
                     and punish it for the horrible crime it is doing."32
                    Moreover, the Japanese alliance with 
                        England
                     had brought to a focus the traditional anti-English feeling of the general public, and
                    a number of anti-British quips and broadsides appeared at this point.
            To summarize, choosing sides in the war, which had seemed such a simple and obvious task in the first
                    week of August, had become more difficult. The sheep and the goats had become inextricably mixed,
                    and although the majority of the people remained pro-Ally they had become less 
                  
                     30
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Telegraph und Tribune;
                            
                                Evansville
                            , Indiana, Demolerat; Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , Indiana, Freie Presse und Staats-Zeitung;
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana Catholic, August 21, 1914, p. 4; 
                                St. Louis
                            , 
                                Missouri
                            , Lutheran Witness, August 11, 1914, p. 133; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, August 18, 1914, p. 11.
                  
                     31
                            
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana, Palladium, August 21, 1914, p. 4.
                  
                     32
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, August 21, 1914, p. 6, for letter of A. B. Nelson, Jr.
               
                     sure of their feelings. Most papers moderated or ceased their
                    criticisms of 
                        Germany
                     and often leaned over backward to be fair to her. A few passed completely out of the
                    pro-Ally orbit never to return until 1917.33 This period of confused and
                    hesitant opinion demonstrated that the bulk of the people were not hopelessly turned toward one side
                    and that their sympathy would depend largely on the course of events.
            But this pro-German swing of public opinion which had begun about the middle of August proved to be
                    only an interlude. The closing days of that month saw a re-assertion of sympathy for the Allies. It
                    became stabilized by September somewhere below the high partisanship of the first week of the war
                    and above the low of the third week of August. At least four factors played' a part in this
                    change of sentiment: (1) unpopular Russia and 
                        Japan
                     dropped into the background, (2) censorship and colored news accounts favored the
                    Allies, (3) German propaganda was ineffectual, and (4) the German campaign in 
                        Belgium
                     stirred the emotions. The last three warrant elaboration.
            Since the cutting of the German cables on August 5, virtually all news of events was communicated to
                    the 
                        United States
                     over the English cables and was subject to censorship. Consequently, an open-minded
                    person reading his daily paper tended to become pro-Ally. English efforts were all the more
                    effective, for the most part, because they were unobtrusive and thereby contrasted favorably with
                    the frontal assault of the German propaganda offerings that reached America. The newly rich and
                    newly powerful German Empire had many of the unpleasant characteristics generally associated with
                    those attributes, not least of which was a blustering exterior designed to convince themselves and
                    the rest of the world of their excellence. They tried too hard and spoke too loud and succeeded only
                    in arousing suspicion. They had not learned the salesman's trick of selling his product by
                    first selling himself.34
            
            The greatest factor, however, in the revival of pro-Ally 
                  
                     33 Such was the case of the 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana, Palladium, New 
                                Albany
                            , Indiana, Ledger Standard, the two 
                                Chicago
                             Hearst papers (
                                Chicago
                            
                            Examiner and 
                                Chicago
                            
                            American), and to some extent the 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Tribune.
                  
                  
                     34 See Peterson, Propaganda for War, 32, et passim, for elaboration of this theme.
               
                     sentiment was the nature and extent of the news that came from 
                        Belgium
                    . In this case, as was true of most major developments during the war, it was the impact
                    of the actual course of events presented with a skillful partisanship to a public already
                    distrustful of 
                        Germany
                     that was the determining factor. Atrocity stories manufactured from whole cloth had
                    comparatively little effect on the public and were, as a matter of act, far less numerous at this
                    period than is generally remembered. It is true that reports of "boys with both their hands
                    cut off, so that it was impossible for them to carry a gun," of "firing on Red
                    Cross nurses," of "women raped," of "mutilations and killing of
                    the wounded," of "dumdum bullets," etc., were scattered through the
                    papers of the fall and winter of 1914, but apparently their chief effect was to heighten the blood
                    pressure of those who were already irretrievably and intensely pro-Ally. Certain it is that they
                    were discounted editorially by the local editors as not "to be taken with so much as a
                    grain of salt,"35 and if there was a single "artist's
                    conception" of one of these stories in a newspaper in Indiana during 1914, the present
                    writer failed to find it.
            Whatever the exact influence of the fictitious atrocity tales may have been, there can be no doubt of
                    the far-reaching effect of actual occurrences in 
                        Belgium
                     and northern 
                        France
                    . By reason of the instruments, techniques, and numbers involved, the rate of
                    destruction of the World War was much greater than the wars that preceded it. Consequently, when the
                    German forces inundated 
                        Belgium
                    , "as the swollen waters of the Connemaugh valley swept through
                        Johnstown,"36 it was doubtful if the world had ever seen so much
                    destruction in so short a time. A land was laid waste and a people scattered in less than a month.
                    Refugees poure along the roads in advance of the German flood, and shattered villages emerged in its
                    wake. In the Indiana papers appeared pictures of Belgian refugee families wearily plodding along
                    crowded roads and of shattered buildings resembling Roman ruins that had been fifteen hundred years
                    in the making. These were the "atrocity" pictures that moved the people in 1914.
                    If both combatants had been judged to be equally guilty, if both had suffered damage, and if they
                    had been 
                  
                     35
                            
                                Princeton
                            , Indiana, Clarion-News, August 21, 1914, p. 2.
                  
                     36
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, August 24, 1914, p. 1.
               
                     of approximately equal size and strength American sympathy
                    would not have been stirred. But no part of this was true, and it was natural that compassion should
                    go out to a small country at war through no fault of its own and receiving most of war's
                    damages on its own scant territory. Moreover the stubborn fighting of her soldiers and the effective
                    leadership of her king won unstinted praise for 
                        Belgium
                    . "Horum omnium fortissimi sunt Belgae,"
                    editorialized the 
                        Kokomo
                    
                    Tribune.
               37 In view of this sentiment it was a mistake for
                    German propagandists to seek to counteract growing partisanship for the Allies by a campaign of
                    vilification of 
                        Belgium
                    .
            Thus far, attempts to weigh the influence of the Belgian campaign on Indiana opinion have been
                    confined chiefly to fictional atrocity stories and to inevitable war-time destruction. But there
                    were other German actions that fell in the twilight zone between the legal and the illegal and were
                    more difficult of classification. Furthermore, the answer to the long-standing debate as to whether 
                        Germany
                     did or did not commit "atrocities" in 
                        Belgium
                     depends largely on how these particular actions are defined. The German government
                    considered them to be legally and morally justified and performed them openly; the people of Indiana
                    classed them as atrocities and were shocked at their occurrence.
            Among the most important of these border line cases was the German practice of levying tribute on
                    captured towns and provinces to help defray the cost of occupation. Prosperous Brussels, an open
                    city which had not offered military resistance, was taxed forty million dollars and the smaller
                    cities accordingly. Although James G. McDonald of the department of history of Indiana University
                    justified the levy as a moral and humane method of assessment on a conquered enemy,38 the public felt that 
                        Belgium
                     did not deserve to be treated as a conquered enemy and did not hesitate to assail this
                    action as atrocious. Convinced that 
                        Belgium
                     was but an innocent bystander who would not have been in the war if it had not
                    constituted the easiest road to 
                        Paris
                    , they believed that if military necessity compelled 
                        Germany
                     to take this road it behooved her to see that the bystander suffered as little as
                    possible. Consequently, the contemporaries 
                  
                     37
                            
                                Kokomo
                            , Indiana, Tribune, September 2, 1914, p. 4.
                  
                     38
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, August 29, 1914, p. 11.
               
                     felt that these assessments were piling injury upon injury and
                    constituted "a rather high price to pay for the blessings conferred upon 
                        Belgium
                     by the Kaiser's troops."39 Also, it should be
                    remembered that the Germans were seeking to collect these levies at the very time that the neutral
                    world was being called upon to sustain life in 
                        Belgium
                     by a gratuitous relief program.
            Other events which the Germans regarded as permissible and the Hoosiers looked upon as atrocities
                    were the bombings and shellings of cities in 
                        Belgium
                    , 
                        France
                    , and 
                        England
                    . The use of the Zeppelin for this purpose was especially obnoxious, and these long,
                    lean monsters of the air became the epitome of sinister frightfulness. In all probability, the
                    Germans sought to confine their attacks to legitimate military objectives, but because of the nature
                    of the weapon the noncombatants usually suffered more than the target. "It is bad enough
                    that men must face bullets and cold steel and that fortified cities must be shelled to reduce the
                    fortifications, but it is unspeakably shocking that women and children, wounded and noncombatants in
                    the heart of a city should be subjected to bombardment from the sky,"40
                    ran a typical editorial.
            Still another German practice that was generally regarded as reprehensible was the severity with
                    which the Belgian civilian population was punished because some of its members took part in the
                    fighting. The Germans, in a desperate hurry to conquer and pacify 
                        Belgium
                     and angered at what they considered to be nefarious attacks, struck out savagely
                    against all civilian war activity. Numerous municipalities were in part or wholly destroyed and many
                    of their leading officials and citizens executed because civilian snipers fired on German troops.
                    The university city of Louvain was handled with an especial roughness, as an example to the rest of 
                        Belgium
                    , that left the vital parts of the city in charred ruins and many of its inhabitants
                    dead. The Indiana public, violently disapproved of these "sample" burnings and
                    killings, feeling that the Germans had carried their reprisals to excess. One contemporary mirrored
                    the common attitude when he stated, "Even if the non-combatants, driven to desperation, had
                    fired on the enemy, the most drastic punishment 
                  
                     39
                            
                                Muncie
                            , Indiana, Evening Press, August 25, 1914, p. 4.
                  
                     40
                            
                                Chicago
                            
                            Daily News, August 27, 1914, p. 8.
               
                     permissible under the rules of civilized warfare would be the
                    execution of the individual offenders, and the Germans destroy the whole city, commit wholesale
                    murder and drive the population forth penniless, hungry, and homeless."41 Furthermore, there was a difference in national psychology between 
                        Germany
                     and the 
                        United States
                     in regard to the civilian sniper. In the eyes of the military-bred German the
                    civilian-soldier was a despicable military private and outlaw who was acting contrary to the rules
                    of the game. Whereas in the non-military (but warlike) 
                        United States
                     the citizen-soldier was a person of honor and respect. Part of the success of the
                    American war of independence had been due to the work of just such non-professional fighters as
                    those that the Germans were executing. For these reasons, the American civilians regarded the
                    warring Belgian civilians as heroes who had taken up arms in defense of their country. Many a
                    Hoosier who had gone squirrel hunting, patronized the shooting galleries, or dreamed of playing the
                    hero must have pictured himself with a gun lying in wait for German Uhlans.
            An anti-German influence of a different nature that grew out of the Belgian campaign was the two
                    month relief program that was launched about the middle of October. The managers of the drive
                    understood that the extent to which a donor would reach into his pocket depended to a large degree
                    on the depth of his emotions. Therefore, the appeal for funds was so pitched as to highlight 
                        Belgium
                    's plight and to personalize and individualize the sufferers. As a result, each
                    dollar or sack of flour donated and each comforter or pair of socks knit for the "starving
                    Belgians" was likely to be a bond that bound the giver to 
                        Belgium
                     and its allies. The partisan effect of donating toys to help fill a Christmas Ship for 
                        Belgium
                     children must have been tremendous.
            To summarize: the Belgian news of anti-German influence can be classified as (1) fictitious atrocity
                    stories which were believed by those who were already anti-German, (2) inevitable wartime
                    destruction which made for Belgian sympathy because it was felt that she was but an innocent
                    bystander, (3) events which the German government considered warranted but which the Americans
                    classed as atrocities (tribute levies, Zeppelin bombings, strong retaliatory action 
                  
                     41
                            
                                Kokomo
                            , Indiana, Tribune, September 2, 1914, p. 4.
               
                     for civilian war activity), (4) courageous fighting of the
                    Belgian nationals which won American respect, and (5) a relief campaign which fanned the emotions.
                    It was indubitably true that the dispatches were biased, the damage to 
                        Belgium
                     exaggerated, and that the photographs were carefully selected, but there was truth in
                    the story of Belgian suffering and ill-usage, and without that kernel the whole picture would have
                    collapsed. The citizens of 1914 were a sensitive people, for they had not seen these things before.
                    Actions that their children would regard as mild aroused them to protestations and moralistic
                    indignation. German national psychology and administrative efficiency had been more responsible than
                    any intent to be malicious, but the result was to some extent the same, and the consequent effect on
                    American opinion can scarcely be exaggerated. The strategy which the German General Staff had felt
                    offered the best chance of winning the war had put German diplomacy at a disadvantage in the 
                        United States
                    .
            On an earlier page it has been pointed out that one of the reasons for the critical attitude toward 
                        Germany
                     in the first week of the war was because the public believed her to be military-minded.
                    During the succeeding fall and winter that opinion grew stronger instead of weaker. German activity
                    in 
                        Belgium
                     was partly responsible, but in addition, the Americans had become acquainted with a
                    group of German military writers of a chauvinistic nature whom they accepted as representative of
                    German psychology.
            Heinrich von Treitschke's doctrine of German racial superiority, Friedrich Wilhelm
                    Nietzsche's belief in the superman, and Friedrich von Bernhardi's glorification of
                    the military life became especially well known. Nietzsche was regarded as the
                    "Prophet" of the "Mailed Fist,"42 and his
                    name "became almost as familiar … as that of the contemporary holder of the
                    highest batting average in professional baseball."43
                    Bernhardi's 
                  
                            Germany
                         and The Next War appeared in numerous editions and became for a time the most
                    read non-fiction book in the 
                        United States
                    . A paper bound edition was offered for sale at railway news stands and hotel lobbies,
                    and library waiting lists grew discouragingly 
                  
                     42 Henry L. Mencken, "The Mailed Fist and Its
                            Prophet," Atlantic Monthly, CXIV (1914), 598–607. The
                                Readers' Guide listed nine articles on Nietzsche for the
                            months of October and November, 1914.
                  
                     43 Sullivan, Our Times, V, 138.
               
                     long.44 It was run in serial form in the
                    papers under such headings as "German View of War and Peace Is Authoritatively Set Forth by
                    a Distinguished Member of the German General Staff,"45 and quotations,
                    such as the following, appeared on the editorial pages: "War is in itself a good thing. It
                    is a biological necessity of the first importance." "The state is justified in
                    making conquests whenever its own advantage seems to require additional territories."
                    "The brutal incidents inseparable from every war vanish completely before the idealism of
                    the main result. All the sham reputations which a long spell of peace undoubtedly fosters are
                    unmasked. Great personalities take their proper place; strength, truth and honor come to the front
                    and are put into play." "[Only in war] are nations enabled to do justice to the
                    highest test of civilization by the fullest development of their moral forces."46
            
            There were other straws in the wind which convinced the public that "militarism has become
                    the watchword of German advance."47 A series of articles by A. K.
                    Graves entitled "Revelations of the Kaiser's Personal Spy" picturing the
                    German government as maintaining an international spy system of frightening efficiency and
                    Machiavellian intent were spread through the state press.48 Twenty-nine leading
                    Protestant churchmen of 
                        Germany
                    , including Adolf von Harnack, sent an appeal to the "Evangelical Churches
                    Abroad," breathing fire and holy words, and boasting of the German military sword which was
                    "bright and keen."49 A continuous stream of utterances came
                    from the German military, the foreign office, and the German-American press glorying in the
                    invincibility of 
                        Germany
                    's might. The very war songs seemed to point up the picture. "Die
                    Wacht am Rhein" and "Deutschland über Alles" were as martial
                    as a bugle call and were no match in propaganda value to the nostalgic "Tipperary"
                    of the English troops. It would have been some help if German officers had been photographed 
                  
                     44
                            
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, Tribune, October 31, 1914, p. 24; New
                                Republic, I (1914–1915), 6.
                  
                     45
                            
                                Evansville
                            , Indiana, Courier, December 15, 1914, p. 24.
                  
                     46
                            
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, News-Times, January 1, 1915, p. 6; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, October 6, 1914, p. 6.
                  
                     47
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, December 1, 1914, p. 6, "Letter to the Editor."
                  
                     48 Bluffton, Indiana, Banner, December 1, 1914, p.
                            2.
                  
                     49
                            
                                Evansville
                            , Indiana, Courier, September 28, 1914, p. 3.
               
                     in hats other than spiked helmets, and a picture of the Kaiser
                    with a smiling countenance might have been worth more than tons of ordinary propaganda pamphlets.
            Thus, the Central Powers had come to be rather generally regarded as illiberal and militaristic. This
                    being the case, it was unfortunate, from the standpoint of neutral opinion, that their first ally
                    should have been the "terrible Turk," whose reported treatment of Christian
                    Armenians had made its name synonymous with barbarism in the 
                        United States
                    . Turkey's choice of partners seemed to confirm the impression that one side in
                    the war was the side of autocracy. Furthermore, the religious element had been added, and
                    restoration of Christian rule in the Holy Land appeared to depend on the defeat of the Central
                    Powers. It was no accident that when the comic strip characters, Mutt and Jeff, went to war they
                    killed only Turks.
            Nineteen hundred fourteen was an election year, and for a time the war dropped into the background as
                    all Indiana played the "election game." The European strife was generally ignored
                    by all parties because it contained too much unpredictable dynamite and because there was little
                    discernible difference in the position of Democrats, Republicans, and Progressives on this matter.
                    No party considered that there had been, or was likely to be, any danger of the 
                        United States
                     becoming a combatant. Enough, however, was said to cast a slender shadow of what was to
                    come in 1916.
            The shock of the European war had temporarily strengthened the peace sentiment in the 
                        United States
                    , and the Democrats sought to convert this reaction into votes by pointing out that if
                    the Administration had been as warlike toward Mexico as its critics had wished, the 
                        United States
                     would be at war with that country, and the Western Hemisphere would be like the
                    Eastern. William Jennings Bryan stressed this point in a two-day speaking tour of the state, and
                    Democrat orators, with Mexico in mind, exclaimed "War in the East, Peace in the
                    West—Thank God for Wilson."50 The Republicans campaigned, in
                    the words of Will H. Hays, for "a protective tariff and lower taxes." The European
                    war did not play a significant part in their efforts, but two minor developments were of some
                    importance as presaging Republican strategy in 1916. Former Vice-President Charles W. 
                  
                     50
                            Ibid., October 30, 1914, p. 1.
               
                     Fairbanks in a speech at 
                        Knightstown
                     asserted, "I venture the opinion that he [an Englishman] thinks that the
                    Democratic party is really a great institution. The fact is it has always been tremendously popular
                    in 
                        England
                    ; its popularity will never diminish there."51 Secondly, an
                    anonymous pamphlet written in German and accusing the Administration of being pro-Ally was
                    circulated among the German voters.52
            
            As this singular year came to an end, local opinion toward the war could be analyzed somewhat as
                    follows: not less than two-thirds and not more than three-fourths of the people were clearly
                    pro-Ally in sentiment. Many New Year's celebrations resounded to the tune of
                    "Tipperary" set to dance time, and a joke going the rounds proclaimed,
                    "I'm neutral—I don't care who whips 
                        Germany
                    ."53 A few of the more determined Entente sympathizers were
                    echoing Theodore Roosevelt in asserting that the 
                        United States
                     Government should have entered a strong diplomatic protest against the invasion of 
                        Belgium
                    .54 Since neither they nor Roosevelt had so spoken in August, a
                    Lilliputian step toward war had been taken! The people of the state, however, were far from any
                    thought of war because there was very little love for 
                        England
                     in her own right and positive distrust of 
                        Japan
                     and Russia. Moreover, antagonism toward 
                        Germany
                     was still almost entirely on an altruistic basis. The nationalistic chord had not been
                    struck, for there had been no clash between the 
                        United States
                     and 
                        Germany
                    , and as long as the patriotic element was lacking there would be no serious war
                    sentiment in the Middle West. The preparedness movement had not as yet taken hold in Indiana as was
                    shown by the approval given to Wilson's expressed opposition to increased armaments in his
                    message to Congress, December 8.55
            
            By the end of this first year opinion had become sufficiently well set that group divisions could be
                    distinguished, and it is the purpose of the following pages to examine the manner in which some of
                    the groups, or at least their professional spokesmen, viewed the war. In order that proper 
                  
                     51
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, October 23, 1914, p. 14.
                  
                     52
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, October 8, 1914, p. 6.
                  
                     53
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana Daily Times, December 17, 1914, p. 6.
                  
                     54
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, December 7, 1914, p. 6.
                  
                     55 Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , Indiana, Sentinel, December 9, 1914, p. 4; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, December 8, 1914, p. 6.
               
                     perspective not be lost a word of warning is in order. Group
                    divisions were not as pronounced or significant in Indiana a.s in many of the states. Class
                    consciousness scarcely existed; foreign groups were small; cities were of moderate size; rural and
                    urban population was almost equally balanced: Middle West culture patterns prevailed. The result was
                    a fairly uniform outlook which was both the strength and weakness of the Hoosier state.
            The largest and most influential minority racial group was the German, and the first news of trouble
                    in Europe had brought its members rallying to the cause of the homeland. Practically as a unit they
                    accepted and vigorously as a matter-of-fact defended the official German theses. There was some
                    deviation, but it was so slight that the citizen of 1914 could assume with virtual certainty that
                    every person of German descent whom he met would be a zealous German champion.56
            
            In the first days of war the German-American press and spokesmen viewed the struggle as one between
                    Slavic barbarism and German civilization and roundly scolded the general public for not seeing it in
                    that light. The Serbs and Russians, it was said, were a people of "unkultur"
                    against whom 
                        Germany
                     was fighting in the interest of all western civilization. "
                        Germany
                    ," a local Teuton exclaimed, "stands now as she has for thousands of
                    years on the border of European culture and fights against the half civilized Slavic
                        hordes."57 The declaration of war on "decadent and
                    immoral" 
                        France
                     was unanimously approved, and the assertions of the German government that it had been
                    forced to take the field because French airplanes had violated German soil were faithfully repeated.
                    As for the invasion of 
                        Belgium
                    , all agreed that it was justified by military necessity. It was also generally
                    concluded that 
                        France
                     would have occupied 
                        Belgium
                     if 
                        Germany
                     had not beaten her to it, and some pushed a step further by saying that "
                        Germany
                     invaded 
                        Belgium
                     only after French airships had crossed Belgian and Dutch territory."58 Later when the German government issued documents seized in 
                  
                     56 German liberals and Socialists usually supported 
                                Germany
                            , but they sometimes did so with qualifications and with expressed wishes for
                            future German liberalization.
                  
                     57
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Telegraph und Tribune, August 3, 1914, p. 4.
                  
                     58
                            
                                Chicago
                            , 
                        
                                    Illinois
                                 Staats-zeitung as quoted in 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Tribune, August 7, 1914, p. 5.
               
                    
                    
                        Belgium
                     purporting to prove that that country had a defensive and offensive pre-war alliance
                    with 
                        France
                     and 
                        England
                     the case of 
                        Belgium
                     was considered closed, and the Belgians were thenceforth regarded in the same category
                    as 
                        Germany
                    's other enemies. Consequently, the Belgian relief drive received no support
                    from the German-American press, organizations, or individuals.
            When 
                        England
                     entered the war on August 5 she was immediately placed at the head of the hate list and
                    became the object of an unremittent stream of violent denunciation which was the German-American
                    counterpart of the "Gott Strafe 
                        England
                    " outburst in the homeland.59
                    
                        England
                     had become a combatant, it was repeated over and over, because she had become alarmed
                    at the growing success of German commercial rivalry and being unable to meet it in fair competition
                    had greedily decided to destroy it by arms. To accomplish this end, it was asserted, she had
                    consciously plotted and planned the war and had used 
                        France
                    , 
                        Belgium
                    , and possibly Russia as her dupes.
            The intrusion of 
                        Japan
                     into the hostilities in mid-August brought an opportunity to heighten the picture of 
                        Germany
                     as the protector of western culture and offered a rare chance to appeal to the 
                        United States
                     in behalf of one of its strongest prejudices, and full advantage was taken of both. The
                    last development of 1914 to which the local Germans gave special attention was the British violation
                    of neutral rights on the sea. Throughout the first six months of the war the only serious
                    interference to American sea-borne trade was by the Allies, and every German-American spokesman
                    became a voluble champion of the legal rights of that commerce. Strong protective or retaliatory
                    action was demanded of the 
                        United States
                     government in the form of warship convoy of shipments to 
                        Germany
                    , or an embargo on arms shipments to Britain, or declaration of war on 
                        England
                     and an immediate seizure of 
                        Canada
                    .60 Furthermore, it was argued 
                  
                     59
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Telegraph und Tribune, August 5, 1914, p. 4; 
                                Evansville
                            , Indiana, Demokrat, August 5, 1914, p. 4; Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , Indiana, Freie Presse und Staats-Zeitung, August 6, 1914, p.
                            1; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Spottvogel, October 25, 1914, p. 4; La Grange, Indiana, Standard, September 10, 1914, p. 2.
                  
                     60
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Telegraph und Tribune, October 26, 1914, p. 4, and December 30, 1914, p.
                            4; 
                                Evansville
                            , Indiana, Demokrat, December 30, 1914, p. 4; Carl Wittke, German-Americans and the World War (
                                Columbus
                            , 1936), 50, 53.
               
                     that whereas 
                        Germany
                     was fighting for freedom of the seas—that is, freedom from English
                    rule—the interests of the 
                        United States
                     and 
                        Germany
                     were parallel, and a German victory would be to America's advantage.
            Passing from a discussion of specific developments to general aims, all major activity of the
                    German-Americans can be ascribed to one of four objectives. First, they sought to secure sympathy
                    for 
                        Germany
                     and animosity toward her enemies by explaining her version of the war and by
                    emphasizing all unneutral action, real and potential, of the Allies. A second objective was the
                    raising of relief funds for use in 
                        Germany
                    , and the extravagantly generous response to this call made all other war relief efforts
                    seem chary. The individual donations of $5,000 to the "League of 1914"
                    and the liberal response to the "Gold für Eisen" campaign demonstrated
                    that the much talked of love for the Fatherland was clearly more than sound and foam. A third aim
                    was to prevent the floating of war loans in the 
                        United States
                     by 
                        England
                     and 
                        France
                    . Yet German-American papers advertised and German-American banks bought German war
                    securities, particularly in the first two years.61 The fourth aim was the
                    securing of an American embargo on munition shipments to the warring powers. This, in fact, was the
                    most energetically pursued aim—the grand goal—of all German-American activity.
                    The more sanguine went so far as to press for a similar embargo on food.
            That these aims were not attained was due to a number of reasons, most of them outside the control of
                    the local German coterie. Yet it is evident from the vantage point of a later generation that some
                    of the responsibility for failure must be borne on their own shoulders, for, as Carl Wittke has
                    cautiously pointed out, "they occasionally overstepped the bounds of discretion and common
                    sense" in their zeal to defend their beliefs.62 The German apologists
                    handicapped themselves and hurt their cause by the raucous manner in which they too often presented
                    their case. They were dogmatic and at times abusive in their arguments, and as though trying to
                    compensate for their fewer numbers they were vociferous to the extreme. Moreover, their words were
                    most 
                  
                     61
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Spottvogel, September 5, 1915, p. 8 and December 5, 1915, p. 8.
                  
                     62 Wittke, German-Americans and the World War,
                        4.
               
                     often addressed to one another, and although a high degree of
                    internal unity was thus obtained there was little to attract the outsider. In fact, their arguments
                    in too many cases were not so much designed to convert opponents as to hold them to derisive
                    ridicule, and an opponent who has been made angry is a difficult person to convince. The successful
                    merchant sometimes considers it the better part of wisdom to lose the argument and make the sale.
            German Kultur was an object of much pride and the German-Americans had no
                    hesitation in dubbing it superior to any in the world. Documentation of that thesis was at times
                    excellent, e.g., "A professor in an American college is never content until he gets a Ph.D.
                    from a German university, and he has to work to get it. 
                        Germany
                     recognizes no easy path to excellence."63 At other times
                    it was mystical nonsense concerning the superiority of the German race, pure in blood and heir to
                    all past culture, and of "Siegfried Germanikus" fighting a "Kämpfer der Kultur" to protect an unappreciative world
                    against barbarous Russia, decadent 
                        France
                    , hypocritical 
                        England
                    , and yellow 
                        Japan
                    .64 But the word Kultur came to have a sinister
                    meaning in Indiana before many months had passed. The monotonously exaggerated language used and the
                    course of real and fancied events in 
                        Belgium
                     were partly responsible. It was also due in part to the wide difference in connotation
                    between the German word, Kultur (all aspects of German life, military, scientific,
                    etc.), and the English word, culture (the humanities). Assuming the two words to be identical many
                    Hoosiers could not understand why the German discussions on Kultur usually started
                    or ended with references to German military efficiency and might. Consequently, it was sometimes
                    said that when a German talked of Kultur he cocked his pistol.
            The German language press took on a new significance and became the inspired guide which daily and
                    weekly conducted its readers through the maze of war news giving the "real facts"
                    and "true interpretations." Many editorials were written on
                    "efficiency" but none on the "Rights of Man," and at virtually
                    no time did the editors express regret concerning 
                  
                     63 La Grange, Indiana, Standard, September 3, 1914,
                            p. 2.
                  
                     64 E. g., 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Spottvogel, September 27, 1914, p. 5, for poem by Rev. J. C.
                        Hansen.
               
                     the German form of government. Nor did they criticize the
                    actions of 
                        Germany
                     or advise caution on its part. If the Berlin government at times took a compromising
                    and conciliatory course, not so the local German papers. They were more German than the Germans and
                    were as likely to be in advance of the propaganda line laid down in 
                        Germany
                     as following it. They were positive that 
                        Germany
                     had already won the war, and the fawning adulation which they bestowed on the Kaiser
                    was almost nauseating to the uninitiated.
            The war tended to draw those of German descent closer to one another and to set them apart from their
                    neighbors. They came to be regarded, and to regard themselves, as a community within a community
                    having a set of interests peculiar to themselves. Their criticisms of the non-Germans sometimes
                    passed the limits of prudence, and a few of their more vociferous members fell into the habit of
                    criticizing all American action, relevant and irrelevant, domestic and foreign. In such
                    circumstances it is not surprising that some should challenge the loyalty of those of German descent
                    and accuse them of having interests foreign to the rest of the country. They were charged with being
                    more German than American or at best of being part one and part the other—of being
                    literally German-Americans. Before the war was a month old anti-"hyphenate"
                    sentiment and voices appeared locally, and there was much shaking of heads and muttering that
                    "if they don't like it here why don't they go back to 
                        Germany
                    ."65
            
            By keeping in mind this division between the "Deutsch-Americaner" and the remainder
                    of the people it becomes possible to understand why the public was so conscious and disapproving of
                    official German propaganda. The propaganda of the German government was directed chiefly to the
                    German element in the 
                        United States
                    , and it sought to persuade them to take a position different from that held by most
                    Americans and for the advantage of a foreign power. It appeared, therefore, to be an appeal for a
                    divided loyalty and a divided country. Consequently, it took on a sinister aspect and, as Johann von
                    Bernstorff noted, the words "German propagandist" early became "a term of
                    abuse in 
                  
                     65
                            
                                Louisville
                            , 
                                Kentucky
                            , Courier-Journal, September 1, 1914, p. 4; 
                                Marion
                            , Indiana, Chronicle, August 22, 1914, p. 4.
               
                    America."66 The Allied
                    disseminations, much more plentiful and more likely to pull the country from its peace moorings,
                    were addressed to the general public. They agreed with the preconceived views of most of the
                    population, and were not intrusive, Therefore, the people were but little conscious of them, and the
                    German efforts received most of the publicity and acrimony.
            To their detriment those of German descent said too little concerning the softer and less warlike
                    facets of German civilization. The high standard of living, absence of slums, conservation, lack of
                    lawlessness, scientific and educational standards, old age insurance, and other such German
                    achievements might well have received greater stress. Turner societies, German cooking, German
                    Christmas, comradery of hikes, and other aspects of "Gemütlichkeit"
                    should have been recounted. There was much that could have been said for the "German
                    Way" but the German-Americans said very little of it. Furthermore, less bombastic optimism
                    would have helped the German standing, because the American people have generally felt that in some
                    way the under-dog is a pretty good dog. All in all, if the Indiana public was inclined to view 
                        Germany
                     as glorying in militarism and autocracy, the local Germans were partly to blame.
            Second in importance to the Germans among the "foreign" groups were the Irish, and
                    they too desired a victory for the Central Powers. Such an eventuality, it was hoped, would provide 
                        England
                     with "an awful beating"67 and 
                        Ireland
                     with her freedom. Drawing on memories of their own history they refused to view Great
                    Britain as the champion of small nations.
            Like the Germans, the Irish favored strong retaliatory measures against English obstruction of
                    American sea traffic, magnified the "Yellow Peril," worked to prevent the sale of
                    Allied war bonds in America, and pressed for embargoes on arms and food. They repetitiously asserted
                    that perfidious Albion was ceaselessly working "to ‘reclaim’ the 
                        United States
                     as a British Colony,"68 and before the war was a month old
                    their more extreme spokesmen were demanding 
                  
                     66 Johann H. A. H. A. von Bernstorff, My Three Years in
                                America (
                                New York
                            , 1920), 259.
                  
                     67
                            
                                Hartford
                             City, Indiana, Telegram, December 23, 1914, p. 1.
                  
                     68 Viereck, Spreading Germs of Hate,
                            215–16.
               
                     that the 
                        United States
                     take steps that would have meant certain war with the Allied nations.69 One of the most successful of their maneuvers was their effort to use their favored
                    position in the Catholic Church to mobilize all Catholics against Great Britain. The Indiana Catholic, organ of both the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and Fort 
                        Wayne
                     dioceses and edited by Joseph Patrick O'Mahony, took the lead in this movement
                    in Indiana and became the most influential pro-German paper in the state.70
            
            The Irish pleas were better received in Indiana than were the German-American because they harmonized
                    with the Middle West predilection toward distrust of Britain, because they were presented in
                    English, and because most Hoosiers felt that the Irish had cause for complaint. But like many other
                    groups, the Irish sometimes let their sympathies run away with their judgment, and at such times
                    their language became violent or gibing and their accusations against 
                        England
                     passed beyond the bounds of logic. Furthermore, their solicitude for mistreated 
                        Ireland
                     lost some of its moral force because they aggressively defended the Austrian and
                    Hungarian rule of their numerous and unwilling minorities and because of their seeming unconcern for
                    the fate of 
                        Belgium
                    . Although the Irish joined the Germans in asserting that theirs was the position of
                    "genuine neutrality," they were more partisan and less compromising than those
                    whom they criticized. Subsequent events have tended to obscure the fact that the first demands that
                    America enter the war came from German-American and Irish leaders.
            The Hungarians, drawn by a natural sympathy to their warring fellow Magyars of 
                        Austria
                    -
                        Hungary
                    , made up a third group that favored the Central Powers. Closely hemmed in on all sides
                    in their native land by their Slavic and German neighbors the Hungarians had developed a virulent
                    national consciousness, and, since the Indiana Hungarians of 1914 were first and second (chiefly
                    first) generation immigrants who were still closely attached to the "Old Country,"
                    their patriotism remained very much alive. Therefore, they viewed the war with an intensity of
                    feeling that probably surpassed 
                  
                     69 E.g., 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, August 21, 1914, p. 6, for letter of Joseph Patrick
                            O'Mahony.
                  
                     70
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana Catholic, August 7, 1914, p. 4, and August 21, 1914,
                            p. 4.
               
                     even that of the German-Americans. Whereas the Germans and
                    Irish chose 
                        England
                     as the major enemy, the Hungarians were chiefly concerned with the
                    "uncivilized" Slavs in general and the Russians in particular.71
            
            The Poles had a more difficult and less obvious task in choosing sides in the war. Primarily, they
                    hoped and prayed that the conflict would somehow bring a free 
                        Poland
                    , but whereas the Irish had only one enemy blocking their way to independence the Poles
                    had three. Russia, 
                        Austria
                    -
                        Hungary
                    , and 
                        Germany
                     governed contingents of unwilling Poles, and a national state would not be complete
                    unless it obtained territory from all. Consequently, the local Poles did not hold excited talk about
                    "going home to fight," as did other groups in the first two weeks of the war,
                    because they possessed no home and were not entirely convinced as to where their best interests lay
                    among their enemies. They distrusted Russia. They hated the Germans. They were somewhat inclined
                    toward 
                        Austria
                    -
                        Hungary
                     by reason of common religion and because its government had generally favored the Poles
                    as a counter-weight against the other northern Slavic groups in its "divide and
                    rule" policy. In the aggregate, however, the aversion for 
                        Germany
                     outweighed the other influences, and a majority of the Indiana Poles were definitely
                    pro-Ally. After all, Editor G. W. J. Kalczynski of the 
                        South Bend
                    
                    Goniec Polski reasoned at some length, the Poles could not afford to support 
                        Austria
                     in the war because that country was dominated by 
                        Germany
                    , and as between Teutonic 
                        Germany
                     and Slavic Russia, 
                        Poland
                    's future was safer in the hands of the latter.72
            
            Among those first affected by the war had been the Belgians and Servians whose homelands were
                    endangered by 
                        Germany
                     and 
                        Austria
                    -
                        Hungary
                     respectively, and who suddenly discovered that they had become objects of much
                    curiosity and sympathy to their Hoosier neighbors. They closely followed the war news, collected
                    relief funds, exchanged letters and stories of atrocities suffered by those in the Old Country, and
                    the young men spoke rather importantly of plans for going home to take a hand in the war. The
                    Servians displayed an especially zealous patriotism. In Gary, 
                  
                     71 Gary, Indiana, Post-Tribune, August 3, 1914, p.
                            1; 
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, Tribune, September 1, 1914, p. 9.
                  
                     72
                            
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, Goniec Polski, August 5, 1914, p. 2.
               
                     three thousand cabled encouragement to King Peter, and fights
                    between them and the Austro-Hungarians became so frequent that police patrols were increased and
                    simultaneous parades by the different nationalities were banned.73 The 
                        Indianapolis
                     Servians held repeated meetings at the Foreigners' House of the Immigrant Aid
                    Association on West Pearl Street where a reporter for the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star found them excited and patriotic and wanting to fight.74
                    Significantly, the Croatians of both Gary and 
                        Indianapolis
                     sided with the Servians.
            In fact one of the most meaningful developments that took place among the immigrant groups was the
                    virtual unanimity with which the representatives of the Austro-Hungarian minority groups supported
                    the Allies and repudiated any claim of the Hapsburgs to their services or sympathy. The Austrian
                    Serbs, Croatians, Rumanians, and Czechs rejoiced at each Allied victory and remained stubbornly and
                    suspiciously aloof from efforts to woo them from that position.75 The Austrian
                    Poles came the nearest to being the exception, but they generally fell in line with the others.
                    These Slavic peoples were looking at the much advertised crusade to protect Europe from the
                    "uncultured" and "barbaric" Slavs from the reverse end.
                    Furthermore, they considered the government of 
                        Austria
                    -
                        Hungary
                     much as the Irish looked upon the English and for the same reason. In Indiana, far from
                    the Danube, was being demonstrated quite clearly the failure of Hapsburg leadership.
            Of all the foreign groups the Italians were probably most ill at ease. The others had Allies to
                    praise and enemies to hate, but they for a long time had neither. Furthermore, the vacillation and
                    bargaining of the Italian government had brought jeering criticism from the pro-Germans without
                    gaining the respect of the pro-Allies. As a result the Indiana Italians were isolated and placed in
                    a difficult psychological position. Although they fully supported 
                        Italy
                     when 
                  
                     73 Gary, Indiana, Post-Tribune, July 29, 1914, p. 1,
                            and August 3, 1914, p. 1.
                  
                     74
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, August 6, 1914, p. 4.
                  
                     75
                            
                                Hammond
                            , Indiana, 
                        
                                    Lake County
                                 News, August 13, 1914, p. 1; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, July 31, 1914, p. 12; Gary, Indiana, Post-Tribune,
                            July 31, 1914, p. 1; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana Daily Times, July 31, 1914, p. 3; 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Examiner, August 12, 1914, p. 14.
               
                     she joined the Allies, there had been no Italian-American
                    counterpart of the Italian interventionist movement.
            A racial stock of a somewhat different character was the Jews, a sizable majority of whom were
                    unmistakably pro-German during the early years of the war. The most anti-Semitic country of that
                    time was Tsarist Russia, and the Jews were not inclined to waste sympathy on a country which had so
                    recently celebrated large scale pogroms. The Jewish people, wrote the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Jewish Daily Courier, must oppose "a war against 
                        Germany
                    , which means to help Russia celebrate a victory over the ‘land of
                    philosophers and poets.’ "76 Moreover, a disproportionate
                    number of the influential Indiana Jews were from 
                        Germany
                     and were proud of it. They belonged to the German clubs, could speak German, and
                    thought of 
                        Germany
                     as their homeland. Yiddish, it should be remembered, is a combination of the Hebrew and
                    German languages. In the long run probably the most significant influence of the World War on the
                    Jews was the firing of Jewish nationalism and the resultant increase in interest in the Zionist
                    movement.
            Although a majority of the Negroes probably took a passive attitude toward the war, their
                    professional spokesmen adopted a more positive line. They praised 
                        France
                     because the French considered a colored citizen a man "for a' that
                    an' a' that," and particularly because officers' posts were open
                    to the colored portion of the French army and navy.77 They were antagonistic
                    toward 
                        Belgium
                     as a result of the exposures of the use of slavery by King Leopold II in the Belgian
                    African colonies,78 thereby becoming the only group in the state to be
                    pro-French and anti-Belgian. As between 
                        England
                     and 
                        Germany
                     they leaned slightly toward the latter for, as one editor explained, the Germans had
                    never been a party to enslavement of the American Negro, whereas 
                        England
                     supported the South in the Civil War in order to get "free cotton" at
                    the expense of "free Negroes."79 To 
                  
                     76
                            
                                Chicago
                            
                            Jewish Daily Courier, as quoted in the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, August 6, 1914, p. 13. See also 
                                Shelbyville
                            , Indiana, Democrat, August 14, 1915, p. 4; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Telegraph und Tribune, August 18, 1914, p. 4.
                  
                     77
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Recorder, July 24, 1915, p. 4; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            World, August 15, 1914, p. 4.
                  
                     78
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Recorder, May 8, 1915, p. 4.
                  
                     79
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            World, June 12, 1915, p. 2. See also 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Recorder, May 6, 1916, p. 6, for anti-British cartoon.
               
                     their credit they were not "hyphenates" in
                    any sense of that word.
            The most numerous and influential group in Indiana consisted of those persons who were rather vaguely
                    designated as the "Old Stock" and apparently included all whose ancestors had been
                    in the 
                        United States
                     more than two generations. They were convinced that 
                        Germany
                     had started the war, they disliked German militarism, and they hoped for an Allied
                    victory. But more than partisanship for one foreign power over another would be necessary before
                    they would desire war, for they were inclined to believe that "Europe has always fought and
                    always will." They were a sentimental people, for it was they who raised the Belgian relief
                    funds. Yet their sentimentality was not without a governor, and they would not permit their sympathy
                    for the "starving Belgians" and the "butchered Armenians" to
                    involve them in armed conflict. They had been anti-English for a long time, and it would require
                    more propaganda skill than the British possessed to cause them to fight to save the British Empire.
                    Nor would they go to war to make the world safe for democracy. For although the Middle West
                    "Old Stock" were staunch advocates of democracy, and although this trait was
                    partly responsible for their being anti-German, they were not actively interested in an International for the spread of democracy abroad. Theirs was an American Democracy, a
                    fundamental part of their nationalism, and not primarily an international ideology. In short, the
                    later popular picture of Hoosiers being carried away by sentimentality, by English propaganda, by an
                    ideological crusade, by munition makers, and by international bankers to the point where they would
                    rush to war against the greatest military power in the world was drawn by those who had never known
                    these folk. These influences helped to make them pro-Ally, but a different propulsion would be
                    required to make them pro-war. They had their feet surprisingly firm on the ground, so firm in fact
                    that visitors from the eastern states were sometimes so shocked at the locals' failure to
                    "comprehend the deeper issues involved" that they almost despaired of the
                    republic.
            There was., however, one motivation that would move them to take up arms against a foreign power, and
                    that was nationalism. For old-fashioned, fervent patriotism inspired  by a feeling of righteous indignation at the action of some power that
                    was challenging or defying the 
                        United States
                     they would shoulder arms. It was necessary that the nationalistic element be added to
                    the other factors before Indiana and the Middle West would favor war, but once that condition was
                    met divisions would be put aside and unity quickly achieved. This nationalism, however, would not be
                    fired by loss of property nor by theoretical principles of international law but would require loss
                    of life or what would be considered a direct challenge to the nation.
            In the early days of the war, ministerial interpretation generally agreed with the rest of the
                    citizens that the fighting was the result of autocracy. They placed, however, more emphasis on large
                    armaments as a contributing cause than did their parishioners, and in some instances they said that
                    the conflict was due to the "presence of sin and rebellion in God's
                        world,"80 or that it was "the Lord's means of
                    chastising the nations"81 or that, although "God moves in
                    mysterious ways his wonders to perform," He was using the war to achieve some great end
                    that would be manifest in time,82 or that it was merely the fulfillment of
                    prophecy and would lead to the Millenium and the second coming of Christ.83
                    Being the incurable optimists that they were, the clergy stressed the possibility that the terrible
                    war might result in such benefits as a general realization of the futility of war, new brotherhood
                    of man, and the return to the sanctums of religion by a chastised world.
            Lutherans, (German) Catholics, the German Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church, the
                    Evangelical Church of America, and the German Evangelical Church sympathized openly with the Central
                    Powers. They early became centers of pro-German activity, and the clergy gave holy sanction to the
                    partisanship of their members and translated their efforts to secure arms and loan embargoes into
                    religious phraseology. The Lutherans in particular gave valuable support to the German cause. Their
                    leaders pointed out that Luther had sanctioned justified wars, that 
                        France
                     was "in the last 
                  
                     80
                            
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Christian Standard, August 15, 1914, p. 12.
                  
                     81
                            
                                St. Louis
                            , 
                                Missouri
                            , Lutheran Witness, August 11, 1914, p. 133.
                  
                     82
                            
                                La Porte
                            , Indiana, Argus, October 5, 1914, p. 8; Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , Indiana, Journal-Gazette, August 20, 1914, p. 4.
                  
                     83 Anderson, Indiana, Gospel Trumpet, September 24,
                            1914, p. 3; Seymour, Indiana, Baptist Observer, December 30, 1915, p.
                        4.
               
                     stages of moral decay," and they bade their followers
                    not to be carried away by tears for theocratic Catholic 
                        Belgium
                     when 
                        Germany
                     was fighting for the freedom of Lutheran 
                        Finland
                    .84
            
            Whether a member of the Catholic Church found logic in the Allied or German arguments depended
                    primarily on the racial group to which he belonged, for there would be obvious differences in
                    sentiment among the Belgian, Irish, German, Polish, Italian and Hungarian faithful. To the extent
                    that the Church favored one side over another it leaned toward the Central Powers. The Church
                    periodical, Our Sunday Visitor, was neutral. But the Indiana
                    Catholic and the Catholic Columbian Record (combined in 1916 to form the Indiana Catholic and Record) were unreservedly pro-German, and others such as the
                    Jesuit weekly, America, were officially neutral but carried numerous pro-German
                    articles without balancing them with Allied ones. Not a single openly pro-Ally Church paper reached
                    Indiana in sizable numbers. One reason for this pro-German tendency was that the Irish ranked first
                    in Church leadership and the Germans second. Another was the fact that 
                        Austria
                    , at that time the most faithful daughter of the Church, was a member of the Central
                    Powers. A third cause was the opposition toward Orthodox Russia and Anglican 
                        England
                    , and a fourth was antagonism toward the anti-clerical government of the French
                    Republic. The French government was described as "infidel,"85
                        "socialist,"86 "anti-clerical and
                        inhuman,"87 and the Americans were warned that "Our debt
                    to 
                        France
                     was from the 
                        France
                     of other days. There can be no bond of sympathy between the 
                        United States
                     and the present French government…. Blush that the necessities of diplomacy
                    force us to recognize the government that finds its duty to blaspheme the God of Nations and whose
                    army is called out to insult and degrade helpless, innocent women."88
                    When Catholic 
                        Italy
                     entered the war in 1915 it had the natural influence of rallying the local Italians to
                    the Allied cause, but the pro-Germans regarded 
                  
                     84
                            
                                St. Louis
                            , 
                                Missouri
                            , Lutheran Witness, August 11, 1914, p. 133; 
                                St. Louis
                            , 
                                Missouri
                            , Der Lutheraner, May 25, 1915, p. 209.
                  
                     85
                            
                                Huntington
                            , Indiana, Our Sunday Visitor, May 28, 1916, p. 1.
                  
                     86
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana Catholic, July 24, 1914, p. 4.
                  
                     87
                            
                                New York
                            
                            America, November 21, 1914, p. 147.
                  
                     88
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana Catholic, August 21, 1914, p. 4; 
                                Columbus
                            , 
                                Ohio
                            , Catholic Columbian Record, August 21, 1914, p. 4.
               
                     this action by the government that was keeping the Pope a
                    "prisoner in the Vatican" as added justification for their partisanship.89
            
            Neither the Lutherans nor Catholics classed all war as sinful, but there were five churches, possibly
                    more, in Indiana which officially and consistently denounced war as being outside the borders of
                    Christianity. They refused to choose sides in the conflict, at least publicly. They stood out
                    solidly against American sale of munitions abroad, opposed efforts to increase the American army and
                    navy, and their young men refused to do combatant service in the army. These were the Friends
                    (Quakers), Church of the Brethren (Dunkard), Mennonite, Amish, and Seventh Day Adventists,90 all relatively strong in Indiana. Other churches which denounced war with
                    particular emphasis but did not carry their opposition to this point included the Free Methodist,
                    Pilgrim Holiness, Church of God, Nazarene, and, widely different from the others, the Unitarian. The
                    Christian Scientists also stressed peace on every possible occasion, but unlike some of the others
                    they were clearly, but reservedly, pro-Ally.
            The Episcopal Church which played an important role in the eastern and southern portions of the 
                        United States
                     was comparatively weak in the Middle West, having but slightly more than 8,000
                    communicants in the whole of Indiana. To virtually the last member they were for 
                        England
                     from the very beginning. Their leaders sometimes chided the general public for its
                    failure to see the great issues involved and lamented the tendency in some quarters to regard the
                    war as "no more than a dog fight in the street." "In the east the
                    conscience of the people seems to be more outspoken—whether you believe they speak out
                    rightly or wrongly—but here it is silent; here we seem to have mistaken moral
                    indifference for political neutrality. We must do nothing, we must say nothing…. A good
                    deal of our neutrality, so-called, and a good deal of our so-called pacifism seems to be no more
                    than moral obtuseness and cowardice."91 Quite clearly the 
                  
                     89
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana Catholic, June 4, 1915, p. 4.
                  
                     90 See 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana, American Friend; Elgin, 
                                Illinois
                            , Gospel Messenger; Scottdale, 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , Gospel Herald; Berne, Indiana, Mennonite;
                            
                                Washington
                            , D. C., Review and Herald; Francis M. Wilcox, Seventh Day Adventists in Time of War (
                                Washington
                            , 1936).
                  
                     91 Address by the Right Reverend Charles D. Williams, Bishop of the
                            Episcopal Diocese of 
                                Michigan
                            , at 
                                Butler
                             University. See 
                        
                                    Butler
                                 Alumnal Quarterly, July 1, 1916, pp. 53–67.
               
                     bond between 
                        England
                     and the Episcopal Church in America had not been completely severed.
            The position of the United Brethren Church, one of the stronger in Indiana, is more difficult to
                    determine. It was of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     "Dutch" origin and some of the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     churches still held part of their services in the German language. Its members,
                    however, were not of recent immigrant stock and did not refer to themselves as German-Americans. The
                    result seems to have been that a majority were pro-Ally but that enough German consciousness
                    remained to cause a few of them to be pro-German and others to be indifferent.92
                    Their attitude toward the preparedness movement was never clearly defined, but Bishop H. H. Fout was
                    more inclined to favor an increase in the army and navy than were many of his ministers.
            In each town and community there generally was to be found a Methodist, Presbyterian, Baptist, and
                    Christian (Disciples of Christ) church. They occupied the vast middle ground that lay between the
                    Holiness on one end and the Episcopalians on the other, and they were closely representative of the
                    state. They had numerous differences, chiefly traditional and inherited, but they agreed in favoring
                    an Allied victory.93 Furthermore, the ministers were likely to be more partisan
                    than were the lay members, because they possessed more of an emotional antipathy for
                    "Prussian Militarism" and "War Lord" sovereigns. Yet it would be
                    an error to picture these parsons, and those of other denominations, as shouldering arms each Sunday
                    in a crusade for a holy war. The apparent fruits of militarism abroad made them all the more firmly
                    opposed to it at home, and for the first year of the war they adamantly opposed all proposals for
                    major increases in the army and navy (Baptists and Christians were more anti-preparedness than were
                    the Methodists and Presbyterians). It is true that they later fell in line with this program, but
                    (speeches of a few fire eaters to the contrary) they were following and not leading. Their 
                  
                     92
                            
                                Dayton
                            , 
                                Ohio
                            , Religious Telescope;
                            
                                Warsaw
                            , Indiana, Northern Indianian, September 7, 1916, p. 1.
                  
                     93
                            
                                Franklin
                            , Indiana, 
                        
                                    Hopewell
                                 Herald. January 16, 1915, p. 2, and May 7, 1915, p. 2; 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Western Christian Advocate, February 23, 1916, p. 2; Seymour, Indiana, Baptist Observer, September 17, 1914, p. 1 and January 21, 1915, p. 1; 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Christian Standard, August 22, 1914, p. 10.
               
                     negative and passive attitude toward the steps that were
                    leading to conflict helped make war possible, but they were not war hawks.
            In the political field, in contrast to the religious, notable differences did not exist between the
                    two major parties during 1914 and 1915. An exception was the question of preparedness, which was
                    championed more vigorously by the Republicans than by the Democrats. The parties most directly
                    concerned by the war in its early stages were the Progressive (Bull Mocse) and the Socialist, and
                    for both it was a seriously disruptive force.
            The Progressives were already ailing by the summer of 1914, but the war materially hastened their
                    end. For one thing, the biggest Bull Moose of them all, Theodore Roosevelt, was strongly
                    anti-German, and the result was an alienation of affection between the leader and party members who
                    were of German blood, a large contingent. Furthermore, the impact of war separated the pacifist and
                    internationalist section of the party, such as Jane Addams, from the "red-blooded"
                    and nationalist faction which controlled most of the party press. The fight over the preparedness
                    movement between these two groups was particularly bitter, because the pacifists saw in the war a
                    gruesome object lesson of the inevitable result of large armies, whereas the nationalists contended
                    that the one major lesson that the conflict offered America was the need for large military forces
                    for protection against aggressors. So deep and wide grew this schism that it is difficult to see how
                    they could have joined forces again under the old leaders.
            The first reaction of the Socialists had been a unanimous denunciation of the conflict as one that
                    would be fought by the workers for the benefit of their exploiters. But this initial unity soon
                    dissolved as many of the members came to feel that there was a difference in degree between the
                    combatants, and as the arms embargo question divided the party into two camps. There were two
                    things, however, on which virtually all Socialists did agree. The first was their last ditch
                    opposition to the American preparedness campaign, and the second was an insistence that the 
                        United States
                     should not permit its controversies with the belligerents to end in war.
            While professing moral shock at the war every major  economic
                    group in the state became optimistic over its dollar and cents effect, a result that was doubly
                    welcomed because 1914 was a depression year. On August 8 the Farmer's
                    Guide predicted agricultural prosperity and noted that "In one day ninety millions of
                    dollars were added to the value of the wheat held by farmers in this country."94 Labor anticipated more and superior jobs, and business men hopefully awaited
                    better times. "Even th' loafer is figurin' on bein' benefited by
                    th' European War," Abe Martin observed."95 Trade with
                    Europe.was expected to boom, and the American opportunity in South America was likened to that of a
                    merchant whose competitors had "burned down in one night."96
                    War also was expected to eliminate importing rivals from the domestic market, and a "Made
                    in America" campaign was launched to educate the public on the superior qualities of
                    American wines, dyes, toys, dishes, and numerous other items. If, asserted the business men, the
                    government would only refrain from further socialistic, Wilsonian legislation that was impairing
                    confidence and "making private enterprise timid"97 the war
                    would pull the country out of the depression.
            When an attempt is made to differentiate between the war sympathies and reactions of those in
                    different occupations and on various economic levels serious difficulty is encountered because
                    regardless of the size of their income most of the Hoosiers insisted upon thinking of themselves as
                    middle-class. But if hard and fast divisions must be eschewed, a few tendencies and inclinations can
                    be recorded. Those in the middle income group and above were more vocally pro-Ally than were the
                    others. The farmers were less moved by the war than were the city dwellers and the laborers less
                    than their employers. Yet it would be a gross misapprehension to assume from this that the merchants
                    and industrialists were seeking war. They were immersed in their purchases and sales, were not
                    convinced that the 
                        United States
                     involvement would be to their individual advantage, and were not particularly inclined
                    to respond to "world saving" appeals. Only on one score were they taking the lead
                    in action that 
                  
                     94
                            
                                Huntington
                            , Indiana, Farmer's Guide, August 8, 1914, p. 866.
                  
                     95
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, February 25, 1915, p. 20. "Abe Martin" was the
                            pseudonym of Ken Hubbard, local humorist.
                  
                     96
                            
                                Chicago
                            
                            American, August 24, 1914, p. 10.
                  
                     97
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Commercial, January 4, 1915, p. 4.
               
                     would help put the country at war, and that was in the
                    preparedness movement. Their desire, however, for an increased army represented a state of mind and
                    not the presence of a plan for its use abroad. The farmers and laborers were in agreement in their
                    opposition to any far reaching armament program, but economically each thought the other was seeking
                    to profit unduly from the war by high prices or high wages. Organized labor was slightly less
                    pro-Ally than were the rest of the workers due to its intense aversion to labor-baiting Russia, the
                    strength of the trade union movement in 
                        Germany
                    , and the large numbers of German-Americans in the local unions.
            That part of the public included in the rather vague designations, professional, intellectual, and
                    cultural, constituted the most actively pro-Ally coterie in the state. In this group were the men of
                    letters such as James Whitcomb Riley, William Dudley Foulke, Meredith Nicholson, and Booth
                    Tarkington who wrote in 1915 that, "I begin to shake, shriek, and dribble at the mouth
                    whenever there is a pro-German whisper."98 Along with the literati went their hangers-on in the persons of librarians, book reviewers, English
                    teachers, and readers of "good" literature. The newspaper editors were less a unit
                    in their stand, but men like Henry Watterson of the 
                        Louisville
                    
                    Courier Journal, Victor Lawson of the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Daily News, and F. T. McCain of the 
                        Crawfordsville
                    
                    Journal cast a wide pro-Ally influence. Likewise in this pro-Ally group were many
                    lawyers such as Leo Rappaport, Lucius B. Swift, W. H. H. Miller, and Enoch S. Hogate. An educational
                    contingent was made up of college presidents, George R. Grose of DePauw University, George L.
                    Mackintosh of 
                        Wabash
                     College, William Lowe Bryan of Indiana University, and others—college
                    professors such as Amos S. Hershey, James A. Woodburn, and Christopher B. Coleman—and the
                    educational proletariat, the Hoosier schoolmasters.99 Those physicians whose
                    interests ranged beyond their vocation generally belonged to this band as did also some of the
                    clergymen who administered to the larger congregations. 
                  
                     98 Claude G. Bowers, Beveridge and the Progressive
                            Era (
                                New York
                            , 1932), 481–83.
                  
                     99 William W. Sweet, Indiana Asbury-DePauw University,
                                1837–1937 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1937), 215; James I. Osborne and Theodore G. Gronert, 
                        
                                    Wabash
                                 College, The First Hundred Years (
                                Crawfordsville
                            , 1932), 317; Indiana University Alumni Quarterly, IV (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1917), 347–61; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, April 17, 1916, p. 9.
               
                     A last group was composed of women who were possessed of enough
                    leisure and inclination to take part in club discussions, attend lectures, read rather widely, and
                    help collect kits for 
                        Belgium
                     and 
                        France
                    .100 The time would come when the rest of the Indiana people would
                    go to war in a surge of patriotic anger, but those enumerated above would welcome battle
                    "not only for the vindication of American rights and for the honor of the American name,
                    but for the preservation of those ideals of justice and humanity upon which the security of the
                    world must rest."101 Stated differently, these professional and
                    articulate groups were more war-willing than were the business men, farmers, laborers, or
                    politicians. Their only rivals were the nationalistically inspired members of the patriotic
                    societies, who likewise were strongly pro-Ally despite the historical distrust of Britain held by
                    some of them. It should be noted that those who would reap the greatest economic profit from 
                        United States
                    ' belligerency were far less war-like than were the professional and patriotic
                    groups who would suffer a loss in purchasing power as prices and taxes mounted faster than their
                    salaries and fees.
            This analysis of sentiment in 1914 reveals an initial pro-Ally sympathy at the outbreak of the war.
                    In the last half of August, however, hesitation, confusion, and doubts lessened this sympathy. This
                    was followed by a stabilization of sentiment during September that was pro-Ally but not
                    overwhelmingly so, and by the end of the year from two-thirds to three-fourths of the people seemed
                    to favor the Allies. This crystalization of attitude was produced by the partiality of Middle
                    Westerners for democratic methods, opposition to militarism, the superior effectiveness of English
                    propaganda, unfavorable reaction to German conduct in 
                        Belgium
                     (not atrocity stories) and to the writings of German militarists.
            Various groups played their part in the formation of opinion. The most numerous minority group, the
                    Germans, attained a high degree of internal unity in support of the Fatherland, but were too
                    dogmatic and abusive to attract 
                  
                     100
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana Daily Times, November 17, 1914, p. 1; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, November 9, 1914, p. 7.
                  
                     101
                            Indiana University News-Letter (
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, 1913-), V, May, 1917, pp. 1–2.
               
                     many native Hoosiers. They were supported, however, by the
                    Irish, who were the first to demand American entrance into the war, the Hungarians, who were
                    anti-Russian, and the Jews, who were largely from 
                        Germany
                    . They were opposed by the Belgians, the minority groups from 
                        Austria
                    -
                        Hungary
                    , and eventually by the Italians. The native "Old Stock" Hoosiers were
                    determined not to be involved and only their patriotism and the loss of lives were sufficient to
                    move them after 1914 had passed.
            National origins divided the churches: Lutherans were pro-German, Episcopalians were pro-English, and
                    the Catholics were divided. Politicians were much alike regardless of party lines, but the
                    Socialists were vigorously opposed to preparedness and involvement in the war. Generally the
                    professional classes were less opposed to American entrance than were businessmen, laborers, or the
                    farmers. The last two were more opposed than businessmen, but economic profits were not the key to
                    the development of sentiment in favor of aiding the Allies.
         
         
         
            David Starr Jordan as a Literary Man
            DAVID H. DICKASON
            
            Obscured by the brilliance of his triple career as a naturalist, teacher, and "minor prophet
                    of democracy," David Starr 
                        Jordan
                    's talent as a creative literary artist has not been adequately appreciated. As
                    a scientist he was the author of several hundred coldly factual monographs on ichthyology, and was
                    chosen president of the American Association for the Advancement of Science; as a professor and
                    university president he served for thirty-seven years at Indiana and 
                        Stanford
                    , and acted as chairman of the National Education Association; and as a worker for world
                    peace he was internationally known as a lecturer, dean of the American section of the Hague Peace
                    Conference in 1913, and recipient of a $25,000 peace prize. But in the realm of creative
                    literature Jordan also had ability and versatility not generally recognized. Not only a clever
                    versifier and disarmingly human autobiographer, he belonged, as a nature-essayist, to the worthy
                    school of John J. Audubon, Henry D. Thoreau, John Burroughs, and John Muir.
            When Leland 
                        Stanford
                     was searching in 1891 for a capable administrator for his new university, President
                    White of Cornell urged him: 
                        Go to the University of Indiana; there you will find the president, an old student of mine,
                            David Starr 
                                Jordan
                            , one of the leading scientific men of the country, possessed of a most charming
                            power of literary expression … and blessed with good sound sense. Call him.1
                  
                    
            
            Another of the very few references to his effectiveness and charm as a writer appeared in the early
                    1890's: 
                        Some of these sketches2 are marked by a union of sound knowledge, with a
                            whimsical humor and delicate fancy which is sufficiently rare among men, whether scientific
                            or literary, and which goes far to convince readers that Jordan might have attained a place
                            in literature perhaps as distinguished as his place in science.3
                  
                    
            
            When his resignation of the active presidency of 
                        Stanford
                     in 1913 focussed public attention upon him, another commentator 
                  
                     1 Orrin L. Elliott, 
                        
                                    Stanford
                                 University, The First Twenty-five Years (
                                Stanford
                             University, 
                                California
                            , 1937), 40.
                  
                     2 David Starr Jordan, Science Sketches (
                                Chicago
                            , 1887). This volume was published while he was president of Indiana University.
                  
                     3 Melville B. Anderson, "A Sketch of David Starr
                            Jordan," in Popular Science Monthly, XLIV (1893–1894),
                            548.
               
                     surveyed his "prose that is now delicate and subtle,
                    now direct and energetic"; his "verse that is sometimes humorous and again in a
                    high mood of fancy," and concluded: "Writing, indeed, is one of his peculiar
                        gifts."4 Although Jordan himself did not include an
                    author's career in his "three separate lives"—research
                    scientist, university leader, and active pacifist—he did admit to an interviewer just two
                    years before his death in 1931 that creative writing had been a pleasurable hobby. "I wrote
                    when I had anything to say and spoke when I thought I had a message."5
                    Hence a rapid review of what he had to say might clarify and help complete the portrait of this
                    gifted man who was so prominent in Indiana's educational history.
            Primarily as jeux d'esprit appear the verses in Eric's Book of Beasts, 6 written, with his own appropriately
                    fantastic cartoon illustrations, "one by one in moments of leisure to please a small
                    boy"—his son. Worthy of inclusion in the best of nonsense anthologies, these
                    creations are prefaced by the statement: 
                        I write and paint in doggerel
                        Though all the Muses shriek and yell!
                     From a world-renowned scientist the entries, even without the complementary pictures, are
                    very unpretentious, very amusing. With a flavor of parody, anent a toothy crocodile surveying a
                    tail-swinging monkey: 
                        This Reptile is a hardened sinner;
                        But when a friend drops in for dinner,
                        He greets him with an open smile
                        And makes him merry quite a while.
                        O let us, like this Reptile, be
                        Renowned for hospitality!
                     Illustrated by the sketch of two very hairy uncouth creatures. "Old Time
                    Folks": 
                        These twain our ancestors must be
                        (Arboreal, undoubtedly)
                        But this is true; it seems to me
                        If Adam looked like this and Eve,
                        
                     
                        4 Isaac Russell, "David Starr Jordan," in World's Work, XXVII (1914), 653.
                     
                        5 Frank J. Taylor, "Three Lives in One, and Always Ahead
                                of His Time," in American Magazine, CVII (1929), 22.
                     
                        6 This was published in 
                                    San Francisco
                                 in 1912.
                  
                        
                        (With no intention to deceive)
                        Thus in Creation's Rosy Dawn,
                        I'm glad that I came later on.
                    
            
            Also primarily for juvenile readers was The Book of Knight and Barbara, 7 his children. In this, indicative of a facile pen, is a versified version of
                    "The Siege of 
                        Troy
                    " done in limericks and foot-noted in a highly scholarly manner. "From
                    an ancient manuscript" the account of the equestrian construction is related;
                    then— 
                        We tied the great horse to a tree,
                        Then the Trojans all came out to see;
                        But never a squeak
                        Did they hear from a Greek,
                        "All aphone now," says Nestor, says he….
                    "When Sleep spread her wings over 
                        Troy
                    ," the attackers slipped out, but in lieu of slaughtering the inhabitants the
                    invaders chose to transfer them, still sleeping, to the vacant interior of the horse: 
                        Then the Trojans got up, rubbed their eyes,
                        And each said, "Well, this is a surprise.
                        I was safe in my bed,
                        But now I've been fed
                        To this monster in equine disguise…. "8
                  
                    And a final example of this lighter verse may be found in a famed quatrain inspired by
                    contact with certain Chinese fishermen in 
                        San Francisco
                     who exported all their dried catch to the homeland: 
                        Mellican man go 
                                China
                             side
                        Catchee 
                                China
                             dishee;
                        
                     
                                China
                             man go Mellican side
                        Catchee Mellican fishee.9
                  
                    
            
            Much of Jordan's serious poetry was occasional or personal—stemming from the
                    immediate situation or from the familiar relationships which he enjoyed. An inveterate traveler
                        
                  
                     7 The stories were first told to his own children but were later used
                            in experimental schools in 
                                California
                             and 
                                Washington
                            , D. C., as material to be illustrated by the pupils. The volume was published
                            in 1899 in 
                                New York
                            .
                  
                     8 "The Siege of 
                                Troy
                            " was reprinted in the appendix of his autobiography, The
                                Days of a Man (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1922), I, 704–06.
                  
                     9
                            Ibid., I, 221. One essayist (see supra note 4) eruditely
                            but incorrectly labeled this as 
                                Jordan
                            's solution to the "Alaskan fisheries dispute with 
                                China
                            "!
               
                     in his world-wide search for new species of fish, he frequently
                    recorded his impressions in rhyme. In 1894 from the singularly picturesque port of Mazatlan in the
                    Mexican state of Sinaloa, where "the narrow harbor, sheltered by tall, craggy islands
                    … opens near a noble beach, ‘Las Olas Altas’ …
                    constantly pounded by the great surf of the sea" come these lines, suggestive perhaps of a
                    more optimistic "
                        Dover
                     Beach": 
                        … We stand tonight on an enchanted shore;
                        The warm, slow pulse of the great Summer Sea
                        Rises and falls the night long, ceaselessly,
                        Beating its one grand rhythm evermore.
                        See where before us the stark moonlight falls
                        On Isla Blanca's bare volcanic walls—
                        Some shapeless monster breaking from the deep,
                        Lashing the waves in rising from his sleep!
                        Perchance, dear heart, it may be thou and I,
                        In some far azure of infinity,
                        Shall find together an enchanted shore
                        Where Life and Death and Time shall be no more,
                        Leaving Love only and eternity.
                        For Love shall last, though all else pass away,
                        The harsh taskmaster that we call Today …
                        Then this great earth we know shall shrink at last
                        To some bare Isla Blanca of the past—
                        A rock unnoted in the boundless sea
                        Whose solemn pulse-beat marks Eternity…. 10
                  
                    Several poems were suggested by his trips to Alaska where he went among "the
                    savage, swart Smoke-Islands" on governmental investigations of the fur-seal industry. A
                    visit to 
                        France
                     inspired him to write "Viverols," considered by E. C. Stedman worth
                    including in his American anthology.11 "Beyond the sea, I know not
                    where," lie the cloud-castles of this dream-city. But a more concrete metropolis,
                    "with tile-roof red against the azure sky," was his own new Palo Alto university,
                    modeled architecturally on the mellowed picturesqueness of the San Juan Capistrano mission. Other 
                        California
                     verses range from an invocation to "Santa Clara Virgen y
                    Mártir" and a commemoration of Leland 
                        Stanford
                    , Sr., to the rollicking "Rhyme of the Palos Verdes."12 But 
                  
                     10
                            Ibid., I, 527–28.
                  
                     11 Edmund C. Stedman (ed.), An American Anthology (
                                Boston
                            , 1900), 579–80. See also The Days of a Man, I,
                            332–33.
                  
                     12
                            Ibid., I, 375, 388–89, and 206–07,
                        respectively.
               
                     of all the poetry published in contemporary magazines or in his
                    autobiography or collected sketches, his favorite (and one of the most lyrical) was "The
                    Bubbles of Sáki," in which he expresses a philosophy of practical optimism in
                    refutation of the musical melancholy of the original poet: 
                        In sad, sweet cadence Persian Omar sings
                        The life of man that lasts but for a day;
                        A phantom caravan that hastes away,
                        On to the chaos of insensate things.
                        "The Eternal Sáki from that bowl hath poured
                        Millions of bubbles like us and shall pour,"
                        Thy life or mine, a half-unspoken word,
                        A fleck of foam tossed on an unknown shore.
                        But tell me, Omar, hast thou said the whole?
                        If such the bubbles that fill Sáki's bowl,
                        How great is Sáki, whose least whisper calls
                        Forth from swirling mists a human soul!
                        I do rejoice that when "of me and thee"
                        Men talk no longer, yet not less, but more,
                        The Eternal Sáki still that bowl shall fill,
                        And ever stronger, purer bubbles pour.
                        One little note in the Eternal Song,
                        The Perfect Singer hath made place for me;
                        And not one atom in earth's wondrous throng
                        But shall be needful to Infinity.13
                  
                    
            
            As a prose stylist in his own story, The Days of a Man, Jordan is direct, easy,
                    informal, and dryly humorous. Essentially an expanded diary, his thousand-page autobiography
                    according to one capable reviewer "has its drawbacks of diffuseness and mixing of subject
                    matter and, one must perhaps admit, of overmuch detail."14 The straight
                    chronology of events is unquestionably broken by frequent references to connoted happenings or
                    associated personalities, but the interest of the narrative is strong. And in spite of the
                    author's unassuming manner there emerges for the reader 
                  
                     13 David Starr Jordan, The Story of the Innumerable
                                Company, and Other Sketches (
                                San Francisco
                            , 1896), 293–94.
                  
                     14 Vernon Kellogg, "Dr. 
                                Jordan
                            's Autobiography," in Science, n.s. LVII
                            (1923), 361.
               
                     the reality of "a highly intelligent and informed man,
                    of robust, forthright character, working always with a steadfast aim to be useful to the youth and
                    to the public and government of the American nation."15
            
            The story of his early days in western 
                        New York
                    , his old brown farmhouse home—"it had been a wayside inn, a habit
                    never quite abandoned"—his early love for the woods with its creeks and birds
                    and fishes, his growing recognition of his father as a personality—"I found him
                    surprisingly interesting and friendly"—his juvenile adventures, explorations,
                    loves and fears—these and many more items are spun together into one of the most
                    effective accounts in American literature of the mind and deeds of a growing boy.
            While husking corn on crisp autumn evenings he developed his first scientific interest, in astronomy;
                    and at the age of thirteen had completed a series of complicated star-maps. Then he turned toward
                    geography with more map-making; but geology, ornithology, and botany claimed his attention as well,
                    and Asa Gray's Manual was well-thumbed. But his first scientific paper,
                    published when he was only twenty, was a practical discussion of hoof-rot in sheep and a cure which
                    he had developed for his own flock.
            With a taste for reading sharpened by David Copperfield, Vanity Fair, and the early
                    tales of Bret Harte, the youthful Jordan also read such poets as Lord Byron and Thomas Moore. But he
                    says: 
                        My keenest literary satisfaction was derived from The Atlantic Monthly
                            …. The Atlantic essays of Emerson, Holmes, 
                                Lowell
                            , and above all Thoreau, had a good deal to do with shaping my intellectual
                            tastes and in strengthening my fundamental ideals of democracy.16
                  
                    After outgrowing the district school at the age of fourteen— "being
                    thought a youth of promise and otherwise apparently harmless"—Jordan was
                    admitted to the only other school in the neighborhood, the 
                        Gainesville
                     Female Seminary. Then after a successful term as teacher in an unruly country school he
                    was ready for Cornell, where he joined one of the boarding clubs. "This impecunious table
                    venture was known in 
                  
                     15
                            Ibid., 361.
                  
                     16
                            The Days of a Man, I, 30.
               
                     the early days as ‘The Struggle for
                    Existence,’ familiarly ‘The Strug.’ " On the campus young
                    Jordan showed an unusual aptitude for botany; and in spite of his success as a baseball player was,
                    in his junior year, appointed instructor in the botany department; and at the end of his four-year
                    course was awarded the master's as well as the bachelor's degree.
            After a year of teaching natural science in Lombard College in 
                        Illinois
                     Jordan spent the most influential summer vacation of his career on Penikese Island with
                    Professor Agassiz. Asked by that great scientist to undertake a study of the fishes of the region,
                    he became definitely interested in ichthyology, to which he devoted the major part of his mature
                    scientific effort.
            He continued his science teaching, first in the Appleton, 
                        Wisconsin
                    , Collegiate Institute; then in the 
                        Indianapolis
                     High School where he prepared his "first real contribution to
                    science," Manual of the Vertebrates of the Northern 
                            United States
                        . After marrying in 1875 a girl whom he had met at the Penikese school, he was
                    appointed professor of biology at 
                        Butler
                     University (then known as Northwestern Christian) where he taught for four years before
                    going to the State university in 
                        Bloomington
                    
               17 as successor to the famous Richard Owen in the chair of Natural
                    History. Constantly carrying on far-flung field trips and research work in ichthyology, he was
                    greatly surprised to have the presidency of that institution offered to him in
                    1884—"an outcome as undesired as unexpected, for my ambition ran entirely in the
                    direction of Natural History."18
            
            From this point on, David Starr Jordan's career is so well known that details are
                    superfluous. As the youngest university president in the country he successfully arranged for state
                    appropriations, a liberalization of the curriculum, and the erection of new buildings; and
                    popularized the University 
                  
                     17 "Presumably, however," he said, "we made
                            a modest impression upon our arrival in town, for the official committee who came to meet me
                            returned to the college reporting that ‘the Professor was not on the train. No
                            one got off but two drummers….’ " Ibid., I,
                            185–86.
                  
                     18
                            Ibid., I, 289.
               
                     by speaking in every county in Indiana.19
                    His energy and executive ability so distinguished him that Leland 
                        Stanford
                    , Sr., chose him to administer the affairs of the new University in Palo Alto, where he
                    weathered the lean years during the settlement of the estate, rebuilt the campus after the
                    disastrous earthquake of 1906, and generally shaped 
                        Stanford
                     into its present form among the outstanding institutions of the country. Giving up his
                    official duties in 1913 in order to have more time to devote to his crusade for world peace, he
                    lectured all over Europe and wrote trenchant documents on the biological waste and the philosophical
                    futility of international bloodshed. But it is probable that his greatest renown will remain in the
                    field of science, for as he summarizes: 
                        Of the species of fish now known—between 12,000 and 13,000 in number
                            —my former students and myself discovered more than 2500 during the course of our
                            various investigations. Of the 7000 genera, actual and nominal, .… 1085 are to be
                            credited to us.20
                  
                    
            
            But more significant than either his versifications or extensive autobiography are Jordan's
                    nature essays and natural history tales. Indeed, he must be credited with the
                    "discovery" of a new literary genus as illustrated by "The Story of a
                    Stone," published in St. Nicholas in 1877 while Jordan was still at 
                        Butler
                    : "It was the first in date of all the ‘nature stories’
                    for children, of which so many have been written in recent years by naturalists — and
                        others."21 But it is a very sophisticated adult who is beyond
                    appreciation of such an account, for as Jordan once remarked, he wrote these stories "for
                    naturalists and for children." Here with a bit of fossil honeycomb coral, the Silurian Favosites, the 
                  
                     19 Concerning his presidency he wrote to a friend: "The best
                            things I did there were these two: The introduction of the elective system of study
                            …. With better and more enthusiastic work both for teachers and students it
                            brought a notable increase of numbers. 
                                Bloomington
                             was placed on the map and the state university … came to stand where
                            it belonged, at the head of the school system of Indiana." See Charity Dye, Some Torch Bearers in Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1917), 136. For details see James A. Woodburn, History of Indiana
                                University (Indiana University, 1940), I, 360–400.
                  
                     20
                            The Days of a Man, I, 288. Concerning a typically technical report of
                            findings he once laconically remarked: "Like most papers of that type, it was
                            useful mainly to the author…."
                  
                     21
                            Ibid., I, 122.
               
                     teller vivified the geological history of 
                        Wisconsin
                    . Soon a sequel, for he says: 
                        As a literary aftermath of our investigations on the 
                                Columbia
                             and a sort of companion piece to my "Story of a Stone,"22 I wrote "The Story of a Salmon" …. This
                            has been reprinted more frequently than anything else from my pen; being readable and
                            accurate, it perhaps deserves its vogue.23
                  
                    Here the reader at once appreciates the rich imaginative re-creation of nature coupled with
                    an authoritative sense of fact: 
                        In the realm of the Northwest Wind, on the boundary-line between the dark fir-forests and the
                            sunny plains, there stands a mountain,— a great white cone two miles and a half
                            in perpendicular height…. Flowing down from the southwest slope of Mount Tacoma
                            is a cold, clear river, fed by the melting snows…. Madly it hastens down over
                            white cascades and beds of shining sands, through birch-woods and belts of dark firs, to
                            mingle its waters at last with those of the great 
                                Columbia
                            . This river is the Cowlitz; and on its bottom, not many years ago, there lay
                            half buried in the sand a number of little orange-colored globules, each about as large as a
                            pea. … In the waters above them little suckers and chubs and prickly sculpins
                            strained their mouths to draw these globules from the sand, and vicious-looking crawfishes
                            picked them up with their blundering hands and examined them with their telescopic
                            eyes….
                    But one, at least, of these salmon eggs escaped; and hatching into "a curious
                    little fellow, not half an inch long, with great, staring eyes, which made almost half his
                    length," the little fish eluded his cannibalistic fellows, thrived, backed with the current
                    down to the ocean, and spent three years in growing up to weigh twenty-two pounds. Then feeling the
                    irresistible lure of the mountain stream again, he fought his way past the 
                        Columbia
                     nets and canneries, up the Cascades and through "the terrible flume of the
                    Dalles," on up the Snake to the foot of the Bitter Root Mountains in 
                        Idaho
                    . Then having covered the eggs of his companion he completed his life work; and sluggish
                    and exhausted after his thousand mile swim, he was clubbed by a settler and thrown to the hogs. But
                    the head, picked up by a wandering naturalist, 
                  
                     22 This essay was reprinted in Science Sketches,
                            196–203.
                  
                     23
                            The Days of a Man, I, 241. The essay first appeared in Popular Science Monthly, XIX (1881), 1–6.
               
                     was sent in for government identification; and "thus
                    it came to me."24
            
            One of the most appealing of these nature-tales is "The Story of Bob,"25 a simian "prince of the tribe of Cercopithecus" from the jungles of Borneo. Bought from a Kearny Street curiosity
                    shop by a group of 
                        Stanford
                     students, Bob was used as an animated biological specimen. At first afflicted with a
                    louse-like parasite, "Bob did not try to conceal this fact; he made it the joy of his
                    leisure." His reactions to snakes, salamanders, horses, coyote and wildcat skins, his
                    playmates Nanette and Mimi, and the Jordan family dog, all are skilfully and whimsically chronicled.
                    "Rover looked down on Bob with tolerant contempt, as a disagreeable being, not to be shaken
                    like a rat because possibly human." But eventually growing too short-tempered Bob was sent
                    back to his pet shop "where red-taïled parrots scold and swear." And
                    there in a little iron cage "he waits until his ransom is paid again."
            "Old Rattler and the King Snake" humanizes the herpetology of King's River
                    Cañon in the 
                        California
                     Sierras. With all the suspense and action of Kipling at his best, Jordan stages the
                    sharp clash and struggle of "Glittershield" and his mortal enemy, "Old
                    Rattler." When the smaller snake has broken the rattler's neck and succeeded in
                    the apparently impossible task of swallowing the victim "while the venom trickled down his
                    throat like some fiery sauce," the gallery, a Disney-like chipmunk, "ran out on a
                    limb above him, pursed up his lips, and made all kinds of faces, as much as to say, ‘I
                    did all this, and the whole world was watching while I did it.’ "26
            
            But among the various sketches of this type the longest and most memorable is The Story
                        of Matka.
               27 On its appearance in 1897 B. O. Flower commented in his
                    liberal review, The Arena: "Though it is done in prose it is none the
                    less a poem; it is the Saga of the Seals…. Dr. Jordan in 
                  
                     24
                            Science Sketches, 9–19.
                  
                     25
                            Popular Science Monthly, XLIV, 145–53.
                  
                     26
                            Ibid., LVI (1899–1900), 371–74.
                  
                     27 The first edition appeared in 1897, but its plates were destroyed
                            by the earthquake and fire of 1906. It was republished in 
                                San Francisco
                             in 1910, and a revised edition was sponsored by Mrs. Jordan in 1923.
               
                     ‘Matka and Kotik’ vindicates his right to
                    be known as the American Poet of Science."28
            
            Appointed Chief Commissioner in charge of studying the fur-seal situation in Alaska and the Bering
                    Sea, Jordan with a number of governmental colleagues went to the Arctic Circle in the summer of
                    1896. There on the Pribilofs and the Komandorski Islands they discovered that the seal rookeries had
                    been literally decimated by illegal and inhumane pelagic slaughter of gravid females, whose pups on
                    shore likewise died as a result of starvation. Incensed by the avarice and cruelty of the
                    fur-hunters, Jordan not only sent in properly technical reports to 
                        Washington
                    , but turned as well to true fiction in order to reach the public more directly: 
                        During the summer, a few days of enforced idleness [after an enraged bull-seal had knocked
                            him over a cliff] gave me time to write "The Story of Matka," my own best
                            animal tale and, in its way, the best of its kind, each incident being drawn from actual
                            happenings (as vouched for in every case by photographs) and the local color being therefore
                            absolutely genuine …. "Matka" thus differs totally from the
                            ingeniously clever "White Seal" of Rudyard Kipling.29
                  
                    For a reader with any sympathy or liking for animals the pathetic appeal of this story is
                    tremendous. In spite of its propagandistic purpose—or perhaps because of the strong
                    feelings of the writer—the name-characters come humanly alive; and in their struggles the
                    reader vicariously participates. 
                        This is a true story, for I knew Matka before Kotik was born, when she was very beautiful.
                            From the little window of the cabin in which I write these words I can look across the salt
                            lagoon and the mossy hills of the Mist-Island, blue with harebells and spring violets, to
                            the black Tolstoi Head where the great surf is breaking…. Here, among the broken
                            columns of black basalt, was Matka's home and here Kotik was born …. 30
                  
                    The roly-poly pup played with his fellows, learned to swim, evaded the blue foxes that
                    called " ‘clin-n-g’ like a scared buzz saw," watched in
                    wonder the struggles of the "beach-master" bulls, and but vaguely comprehended the
                    drives of the superfluous 
                  
                     28
                            Arena, XVIII (1897), 285.
                  
                     29
                            The Days of a Man, I, 560. In Kipling's tale (c. 1893) the same
                            names, "Matkah" and "Kotick" occur (Russian for
                            "mother" and "pup"). But here the albino Kotick as the
                            romantic saviour of his people leads them to new and safer havens.
                  
                     30 Jordan, Matka and Kotik, 15.
               
                     bachelor-seals to the annual slaughter. Maturing, he went on
                    the yearly migrations southward but always returned to the Tolstoi Beach. But now the 
                        dreary days have come to the twin Mist-Islands. The ships of the Pirate Kings swarm in the
                            Icy Sea…. The blood of the silken-haired ones, thousands by thousands, stains the
                            waves as they rise and fall. The decks of the schooners are smeared with their milk and
                            their blood, while their little ones are left on the rocks to wail and starve.
                    And on the golden Zoltoi beach "we found Matka dead … with the cruel
                    spearhead fast in her velvet neck"; while her youngest pup, Lakutha, 
                        waited for her on the flat top of a broken column, close to the water's edge,
                            calling across the surf day after day. … I turn my eyes from Tolstoi Head and put
                            aside my pen…. It is growing very chill. The mist is rising from the Salt Lagoon,
                            and there is no brightness on the golden sands.
                    
            
            In addition to these humanized nature tales, Jordan produced a series of noteworthy descriptive
                    essays which may be only briefly mentioned here. Ranking with the best of Burroughs and John Muir
                    they include a group on 
                        California
                    : "The Alps of the King-Kern Divide,"31 "
                        California
                     and the Calfornians,"32 and a historical sketch of the
                    Spanish missions, "The 
                        California
                     of the Padre."33 The recently discovered wonders of
                    Yellowstone appear in "The Story of a Strange Land";34 the
                    mystery of the Indian Southwest in "Red Letter Days—The Enchanted
                        Mesa";35 and superbly vivid accounts of European rugged country in
                    "An Ascent of the Matterhorn,"36 and "The Conquest of
                    Jupiter Pen"37 —a picture of the Alps and the Hospice of
                    Saint Bernard. 
                  
                     31 This was reprinted as a booklet, in 
                                San Francisco
                             in 1907, from the magazine The Land of Sunshine, XII (1900),
                            206–12.
                  
                     32
                            Atlantic Monthly, LXXXII (1898), 793–801. Several reprints
                            followed.
                  
                     33
                            The Story of the Innumerable Company, 87–132. Other general
                            sketches may be found in Fish Stories (
                                New York
                            , 1909), which was written in collaboration with Charles Frederick Holder.
                  
                     34
                            Popular Science Monthly, XL (1891–1892), 447–58.
                  
                     35
                            The Land of Sunshine, IX (1898), 124–26. This story was
                            reworked in his autobiography, The Days of a Man, I, 626–37.
                  
                     36
                            Science Sketches, 204–27, where it was reprinted from Our Continent, II (1882), 545–50.
                  
                     37
                            The Story of the Innumerable Company, 137–74.
               
                     Another European sketch, one of the most effective of the
                    descriptions of the Oberammergau celebrations, is Jordan's "The Story of the
                    Passion."
            Another series of essays is primarily biographical and critical. Ranging from Ulrich von Hutten born
                    in 1488, to Thoreau whom he calls "the last of the Puritans," the subjects include
                    such scientists as Charles Darwin, the eccentric but influential Constantine Rafinesque, a Cuban
                    ichthyologist Don Felipe Poey,38 and Richard Owen.39 With a
                    peculiar sense for the significant and the vivid, Jordan endows these men with life and pertinence.
            Less extensive but nevertheless interesting references to many American men of letters, occurring as
                        obiter dicta in his autobiography, indicate that Jordan, as well as
                    contributing to current literature, also had frequent contact with better known writers. A student
                    of Bayard Taylor at Cornell, Jordan in his college days chanced to be seated beside one of his
                    favorite authors, James Russell Lowell, at a church service—"a seat among the
                    gods." In 
                        Indianapolis
                     a close friend of James Whitcomb Riley—whom he later invited to give
                    readings at 
                        Stanford
                    —he also knew the romantic novelist, Maurice Thompson. At the University in 
                        Bloomington
                     Jordan welcomed as lecturers Henry George, Bronson Alcott, Henry Ward Beecher, and
                    possibly Wendell Phillips. In 
                        San Francisco
                     he made the acquaintance of John Muir, "a young Scot"; and as
                    recompense for having passed Robert Louis Stevenson unknowingly on the street he made in after years
                    a pilgrimage to Stevenson's Samoan home. Joaquin Miller, "the most picturesque
                    personality on the coast," was invited to lecture at 
                        Stanford
                    ; Edwin Markham, then principal of the Oakland Practice School, Mary Austin of
                    "clean and perfect artistry of phrase and figure," genial Bailey Millard of the 
                        San Francisco
                    
                    Bulletin, and Hamlin Garland were friends or acquaintances. Jack 
                        London
                    , too, as a student in 
                        Jordan
                    's Oakland university extension classes in evolution, was influenced by him,
                    and later accepted the invitation to read some of his Alaska stories at 
                        Stanford
                    . And in Jordan's wide ramblings over the 
                        United States
                     he was always interested 
                  
                     38 The last three essays are found in Science
                            Sketches, 171–95, 143–59, and 160–70, respectively.
                  
                     39
                            Popular Science Monthly, LI (1897), 259–65.
               
                     in comparing the actualities of the various regions with the
                    literary concepts that he had built up from the writings of such authors as Thoreau, Mary N.
                    Murfree, Edward Eggleston, and G. W. Cable.
            So, ten years after the death of a great scientist, educator and pacifist, a student of his career
                    may look back and discern the sharp and undying outline of his work in his three major fields. But
                    in addition, David Starr Jordan's triangle of achievement should be squared to include a
                    worthy contribution to American literature in the realm of facile verse, honest autobiography, and
                    accurate and effective nature sketches and essays.
         
         
         
            
               
                        Evansville
                     Steamboats During the Civil War
            MILFORD M. MILLER
            
            Nothing had occurred before December, 1860, to make the 
                        Evansville
                    , Indiana, steamboat interests realize that the river trade between the North and South
                    could be disrupted by anything but an act of nature. During the first part of that month a
                    considerable cargo of fresh beef and a mule were shipped from 
                        Evansville
                     to 
                        Memphis
                    , 
                        Tennessee
                    , on the "Lady Pike." But the consignees of the shipment refused to
                    receive the cargo, insisting that they did not intend to eat Northern beef any longer. So the
                    "Lady Pike" reappeared at the 
                        Evansville
                     wharf with the beef and the "Abolitionist" mule.1
            
            Although this caused considerable comment, there was confusion and anxiety in local shipping circles
                    when the Governor of 
                        Mississippi
                    , early in January, 1861, ordered artillery to Vicksburg to hail and question all
                    passing steamboats. The 
                        Evansville
                    
                    Daily Journal published a strong editorial on the subject entitled: "The 
                        Mississippi
                     Cannot Be Closed." It stated: 
                        Some of the thunder of indignation and the lightning of wrath may be expected from the
                            millions of people interested in the free and uninterrupted navigation of the lower 
                                Mississippi
                            . Not the slightest interruption of the navigation of the 
                                Mississippi
                             will be allowed by the people of the Northwest….
                        If an attempt be made to interfere with the free navigation of the 
                                Mississippi
                            , the boatmen, merchants, mechanics, miners, manufacturers, farmers, everybody
                            interested in the navigation of that great river, without distinction of party, will aid in
                            removing the obstruction. And they will accomplish whatever they undertake.2
                  
                    These were indeed prophetic words but much bloodshed was necessary to prove them so.
            Each steamboat from the lower 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Mississippi
                     rivers brought news of the action and feeling of the South, and local indignation arose
                    progressively with each steamboat arrival. After the taking of Fort Sumter the 
                        Evansville
                     fleet was more decorated than ever before with the 
                  
                     1
                            
                                Evansville
                            , Indiana, Daily Journal, December 6, 1860. The "Lady
                            Pike" was a boat of 240 tons. She was built at Wheeling, 
                                Virginia
                            , in 1851, according to James T. Lloyd, Steamboat Directory (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1856), 270.
                  
                     2
                            
                                Evansville
                            
                            Daily Journal, January 14, 1861.
               
                     Stars and Stripes. Captain J. B. Archer, in command of the
                    "Commercial," landed at the wharf on April 19, 1861, and hoisted the secession
                    flag on his boat. Although he had been beloved by the citizens of this community, this was regarded
                    as an insult and he was not encouraged to stay. He proceeded upstream to New 
                        Albany
                    , Indiana, where he was told by the wharfmaster to lower the secession flag or leave the
                    wharf in ten minutes. The rebel captain cast off immediately rather than bow to this demand.3
            
            Rumors were circulated around 
                        Evansville
                     that the "Autocrat" and the "Peytona" would be down
                    in a few days with volunteers from 
                        Louisville
                     for the Southern army. The former finally arrived and stopped at 
                        Evansville
                     voluntarily, but it was reported at Owensboro, 
                        Kentucky
                    , that she was forced to land. Shortly thereafter the "Peytona" came
                    down with secession troops aboard but passed on the far side of the river, although there was
                    considerable freight and several passengers waiting for her here. She stopped at Henderson, 
                        Kentucky
                    , where a group of Southern sympathizers met her at the landing with a cannon and fired
                    fifteen rounds in honor of the South, interspersed with much oratory. The recruits retired to the 
                        Hancock
                     House, where additional rounds of cheers were given for the Confederacy and a thorough
                    berating given the citizens of 
                        Evansville
                     who allegedly had expressed the determination to bring the "Peytona"
                    to or sink her. Some of the Henderson citizens vowed that they were prepared to go to 
                        Evansville
                     in support of the boat if it had been stopped.4
            
            The activities of the Southerners along the 
                        Mississippi
                     continued to be reported by each upbound boat. With eager ears those at the wharf
                    learned from the clerk of the "Masonic 
                  
                     3
                            Ibid., April 20 and 25, 1861.
                  
                     4
                            Ibid., April 19 and 22, 1861. The "Autocrat" was a
                            side-wheeler, with the dimensions of 270' × 40' × 7
                            1/2'. The hull was built at Paducah, 
                                Kentucky
                            , by Ed C. Murray; the cabin was built and the machinery installed at 
                                Evansville
                            . The machinery came from the "Southern Belle." There were
                            forty-eight state rooms, together with a 
                                Texas
                             composed of eighteen rooms. It also contained a nursery. Its cost was
                            $51,000. Information about the dimensions of the vessels mentioned in this paper
                            has been collected from newspapers and various other sources over a period of several years.
                            With a few exceptions, citation of these sources has been omitted for reasons of space.
                            Julius A. Lemcke, Reminiscences of an Indianian (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1905), 34. The "Peytona" was built in 1859 at New 
                                Albany
                            , Indiana, for the 
                                Louisville
                             and 
                                New Orleans
                             trade. Her dimensions were 268' × 33' ×
                            8'. Samuel W. Stanton, American Steam Vessels (
                                New York
                            , 1895), 158–59.
               
                     Gem," an 
                        Evansville
                     boat, that one thousand men at 
                        Memphis
                     assembled and ordered Captain Kyle, of the "Messenger," to haul down
                    the Stars and Stripes. This he refused to do, but he did leave the port much earlier than he had
                        anticipated.5 The "Westmoreland," which arrived from 
                        New Orleans
                     on April 29, reported that at Napoleon, 
                        Arkansas
                    , Southern soldiers stopped the boat and tied her up, but the engineers, watching their
                    chance to escape, put on the steam, broke the lines, and proceeded up stream at full speed under
                        fire.6
            
            The Confederate Congress, in April, 1861, granted thirty days' time to all Northern owned
                    steamboats within Southern ports to close their business and depart. Pursuant to this order, the
                    "Fanny Bullitt" made her departure from 
                        New Orleans
                     on April 29, 1861. Captain "Gus" Lemcke was a part owner and head
                    clerk. He was stopped at 
                        Memphis
                     where the authorities threatened his arrest and the boat's confiscation. He
                    claimed in later years that the cargo consisted of rosin, turpentine, and a little sugar, but the 
                        Memphis
                     authorities at the time claimed that he had on board two 32-pounders and a large amount
                    of shot and shell which was destined for Cairo, 
                        Illinois
                    .7
            
            On the other hand the people and the authorities of the North were taking similar action. The
                    officers and passengers of the "Baltic" reported that a battery had been planted
                    at Cairo and about two thousand 
                        United States
                     troops were stationed there, that a shot had been fired across her bow, forcing her to
                    land and to submit to a thorough examination of her cargo.8 The existence of the
                    battery was confirmed 
                  
                     5
                            
                                Evansville
                            
                            Daily Journal, April 22, 1861. The "Masonic Gem" was the
                            pioneer mail boat between 
                                Evansville
                             and Bowling Green, 
                                Kentucky
                            , in 1860. Her hull was built at 
                                Mound City
                            , 
                                Illinois
                            ; the machinery received and the upper works built at 
                                Evansville
                            ; while her engines came from the "Raven." She was completed
                            in November. 1859. She was 125' in length, 26' in width, and 4'
                            depth of hold, with a capacity for 250 tons of freight and 50 passengers. The
                            "Messenger" was referred to by various writers as a vessel of 406 tons or
                            260 tons. Lloyd, Steamboat Directory, 270; William Smith, Annual Statement of the Trade and Commerce of 
                                    Cincinnati
                                , 1859 (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1859), 38.
                  
                     6
                            
                                Evansville
                            
                            Daily Journal, April 30, 1861.
                  
                     7
                            Ibid., May 7 and 10, 1861. Lemcke, Reminiscences, 148. The "Fanny
                            Bullitt" was a side-wheeler with dimensions of 245' ×
                            32' × 61/2'. She was built in New 
                                Albany
                            , in 1854, for the 
                                Louisville
                             and 
                                New Orleans
                             trade. Her machinery came from the "Fanny Smith." She was
                            named for Fanny Smith Bullitt of 
                                Louisville
                            , 
                                Kentucky
                            . Lloyd, Steamboat Directory, 267, gives the tonnage of this
                            vessel as 439.
                  
                     8
                            
                                Evansville
                            
                            Daily Journal, April 25, 1861.
               
                     and additional details given by Captain Henry T. Dexter of the
                    "Charley Bowen," who had the mail contract from 
                        Evansville
                     to Cairo.9
            
            The Secretary of the Federal Treasury, Salmon P. Chase, sent the following order to the Surveyor of
                    Customs at 
                        Evansville
                     on May 9, 1861: 
                        I instruct you to cause a careful examination to be made of the manifests of all steam or
                            other vessels departing from your port with cargoes whose ultimate destination you have
                            satisfactory reason to believe is under the control of such insurrectionary parties, and to
                            compare the same with the cargo on board; and if any such manifest be found … you
                            will take all necessary and proper measures to prevent departure of the vessel and to detain
                            the same in your custody until all such articles be removed therefrom….
                        You will also make a careful examination of all flatboats and other watercraft without
                            manifest … and if arms, munitions of war, provisions, or other supplies
                            … you will seize and detain the same to await the proper legal proceeding for
                            confiscation or forfeiture…. 10
                  
                    With this edict the wharf assumed a martial air. When the "Glendale"
                    passed up the river with her calliope playing "Yankee Doodle" with all its might
                    and with her passengers waving their hats and handkerchiefs, enthusiasm for the Northern cause was
                    raised another degree or so.11
            
            The order of the Secretary of the Treasury was naturally taken very seriously. The officers at Camp
                    Morris, later called Camp Wallace, which was established at the foot of what is now Reitz Hill, in 
                        Evansville
                    , sought to carry out the order too literally and made two humorous blunders at the very
                    outset. Laird Olmstead was piloting a raft of saw logs up Pigeon Creek to his saw mill when he was
                    hailed and questioned whether he had any provisions on board for the Confederate States. He was
                    ordered to show his colors, which he declined to do, saying that he didn't carry any. Some
                    of the dutiful soldiers then jumped into the creek and swam to the raft and searched her. Finally,
                    Olmstead was 
                  
                     9
                            Ibid., May 1, 1861. The "Charley Bowen" was a fast
                            stern-wheeler, built on the Monongahela River near McKeesport, 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , in the fall of 1855. She was 138' long, by 25' beam, by
                            4'8" depth of hold. Named for Charles Bowen of 
                                Waterford
                            , 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , she entered the 
                                Evansville
                            , Paducah, and Cairo trade on November 12, 1858.
                  
                     10
                            Ibid., May 10, 1861.
                  
                     11 The "Glendale" was built in 
                                Cincinnati
                             in 1853, according to Lloyd, Steamboat Directory, 269. It was
                            a vessel of 394 tons.
               
                     released with the caution never to sail the raft again in that
                    neighborhood without the Stars and Stripes.12
            
            The other mistake occurred soon thereafter when a boat was "brought to" by the
                    alert recruits at Camp Morris, which proved to be loaded with three iron cannon and other
                    commissions of war. The boat did not have a manifest so she was detained until word concerning her
                    could be received from 
                        Cincinnati
                    . The boat proved to be the "W.H.B.," a large towboat in government
                    service. It took no less than General McClellan, Commander in Chief of the Western Division, to get
                    this craft released from the suspicious sentinels.13
            
            Word came to the city on May 12, that the "Masonic Gem" and the
                    "Pocahontas" had left 
                        Louisville
                     for Bowling Green, 
                        Kentucky
                    , and that parts of the cargoes were marked for Petersburg, 
                        Virginia
                    , and for 
                        Nashville
                    , 
                        Tennessee
                    . It was thought that they would arrive at the mouth of Green River some time that
                    night. Three or four companies of the Eleventh Regiment at Camp Morris and Captain Klauss'
                    artillery were ordered out and the "W. V. Gillum," an 
                        Evansville
                     boat operating in the Green River trade, was chartered. This first local naval
                    expedition proceeded to the mouth of Green River, taking along Charles Denby, Collector of the Port,
                    but the expedition was a failure for word was soon received that the two boats had not left 
                        Louisville
                    , which was disappointing to the large crowd that had collected on the wharf to witness
                    the "Gillum's" return.14
            
            Frank and bold accusations and attacks were made on "Fifth Columnist" activities.
                    The editor of the 
                        Evansville
                    
                    Journal, in an editorial entitled, "He Needs Watching," accused
                    Captain Van Meter, as one of the owners of the "Mattie Cook," of furthering the
                    cause of the Confederacy, in that he was largely interested in the freight of the "Masonic
                    Gem" and the "Pocahontas." The editorial ended: "We do not think
                    Captain Liter of the ‘Mattie Cook’ would willfully violate the Jaws of the
                    land, but an association with such a rebel as Van Meter is, to say the least,
                        unfortunate."15
            
            
               
                  12
                        
                            Evansville
                        
                        Daily Journal, May 17, 1861.
               
                  13
                        lbid., June 15 and 17, 1861.
               
                  14
                        Ibid., May 14, 1861. The "W. V. Gillum" entered the 
                            Evansville
                         and Green River trade in July, 1858, with J. W. McCarty as Captain.
               
                  15
                        Ibid., May 25, 1861. The "Mattie Cook" was built at 
                            Madison
                        , Indiana, in the fall of 1860, with a capacity of 200 tons. The
                        "Pocahontas" was listed in Smith, Trade and Commerce of 
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1859, p. 38, as a boat of 186 tons.
            
            
            Someone apparently accused Union Bethel of 
                        Newburgh
                    , Indiana, of traitorous conduct, for he published a notice to the effect that he had
                    shipped a thousand barrels of flour to 
                        New York
                     and 
                        Boston
                     by the "Sam Orr," an 
                        Evansville
                     boat bound for 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , but when the boat reached 
                        Louisville
                     the flour was attached by a creditor, and that some "traitorous
                    scoundrels" reported that the attachment was a plot between the creditor and himself to get
                    the flour to the Confederacy.10
            
            Through special dispensation the "Charley Bowen" and the "Eugene"
                    were allowed to pass the military authorities without examination. This also applied to the
                    "Grey Eagle," running in the 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        Evansville
                     trade, and the "Dun-bar," running in the Paducah, 
                        Kentucky
                    , and 
                        Evansville
                     trade. The latter was owned by the five Fowler brothers of Paducah, Dick, Joe, Willie,
                    Whyte, and Gus, who were strong Southern sympathizers. They were apparently transporting provisions
                    and supplies to the Confederacy at Paducah, for on June 7, A. L. Robinson, Surveyor of Customs at 
                        Evansville
                    , warned the Captain that such procedure was illegal and rendered the boat and cargo
                    liable to seizure.17
            
            On a hot June day a high state of excitement reigned in 
                        Evansville
                    , when a messenger arrived announcing that 600 secessionists were on their way down the
                    river in two boats to attack the town. This caused a general call' to arms. Various
                    companies of home guards, the companies at Camp Wallace, and the artillery squad with one gun
                    planted on the "Lou Eaves" were dispatched up the river. The expedition went about
                    eight miles above 
                        Newburgh
                    , Indiana, but returned the following morning when it failed to find the alleged
                        attackers.18
            
            
               
                  16
                        
                            Evansville
                        
                        Daily Journal, June 12, 1861. The "Sam Orr" was one of 
                            Evansville
                        's favorite packets. She had been intended for the 
                            Evansville
                         and 
                            Wabash
                         trade but had proved too large and had been free-lancing more or less, at times
                        running in the place of the "Charley Bowen," carrying the mails in the 
                            Evansville
                        , Paducah, and Cairo trade, and at other times in the Green River trade and to 
                            Pittsburgh
                        . A stern-wheeler of 150' length, 29' beam, and 5' depth,
                        she was built at New 
                            Albany
                        , and completed at 
                            Evansville
                         in February, 1861. She was owned in 
                            Evansville
                        , and named for Samuel Orr of that city.
               
                  17
                        Ibid., June 8, 1861. The "Eugene" was a side-wheeler, which
                        entered the 
                     Louisville, Evansville
                  , and Henderson trade early in 1861. The
                        "Grey Eagle" was commonly referred to as "
                        ‘Big’ Grey Eagle" in contrast to "
                        ‘Star’ Grey Eagle," which was also operating on the 
                            Ohio
                         River at the same time. She was a side-wheeler. The "Dunbar"
                        entered the 
                            Evansville
                         and Paducah trade early in 1860.
               
                  18
                        Ibid., June 24 and 25, 1861. The "Lou Eaves" was a
                        side-wheeler that was built at 
                            Evansville
                         in the fall of 1859, and was operated in the 
                            Evansville
                         and Green River trade.
            
            
            With matters becoming more serious and intense, the Surveyor of the Port, on July 5, issued the
                    following important order: 
                        I desire to direct the attention of our business community to the instructions given to
                            masters of steamboats not to receive any goods for transportation from this port without
                            permits from this office….
                        Goods or other property attempted to be shipped from this port without a permit will be
                            detained until they can be examined and the facts concerning them fully
                            investigated….
                        Permits are required for the shipment of all kinds of property intended for places in 
                                Kentucky
                            , on the 
                                Ohio
                             River, above this place or all places on Green River, and for all places on
                            either side of the 
                                Ohio
                             River below this port….
                        This regulation becomes necessary from the fact that goods are being shipped to places in the
                            State of 
                                Illinois
                            , near Smithland [
                                Kentucky
                            ] and Paducah, and are afterwards sent by night in skiffs and boats to those
                            places, and thus forwarded to the rebels.19
                  
                    In an effort to enforce this order, additional troops were brought to 
                        Evansville
                    , one company on the "Hettie Gilmore," an 
                        Evansville
                     boat.20
            
            Consistent with the enthusiasm for the Northern cause, the mechanics of 
                        Evansville
                     resolved to manufacture, man, and equip two or more cannon for the defense of the city.
                    One of these was manufactured by the Kratz & Heilman foundry and was installed at the river
                    bank at the foot of Main Street. It was put in operation May 16, 1861. The other was manufactured by
                    the 
                        Evansville
                     and 
                        Crawfordsville
                     Railroad mechanics and was installed at the foot of 
                        Fulton
                     Avenue. It was tested on July 3, and, at an elevation of twenty degrees, threw a seven
                    pound ball three and one-fourth miles.21 A number of the patriotic citizens
                    caused a flagpole to be erected at the foot of Main Street upon which was placed the Stars and
                    Stripes; but one morning soon after the residents awakened to see the secession flag flying at the
                        top.22
            
            For some time 
                        Evansville
                     had been looking forward to seeing the gun boats "
                        Lexington
                    ," "A. O. Taylor," and "Conestoga," which
                    were three converted 
                        Ohio
                     River steamers that were undergoing alterations at 
                        Cincinnati
                    . Finally on August 
                  
                     19
                            Ibid., July 6, 1861.
                  
                     20
                            Ibid., July 17, 1861. The "Hettie Gilmore" was named for
                            the daughter of A. T. Gilmore, captain of the first "Morning Star."
                  
                     21
                            Ibid., July 4, 1861.
                  
                     22
                            Ibid., July 22, 1861.
               
                     8, 1861, the "Linden" reported that the three
                    gunboats were coaling at 
                        Cannelton
                     when she passed and would arrive at 
                        Evansville
                     soon. When these strange boats arrived on August 10, a large crowd was at the wharf to
                    witness their arrival.23
            
            Soon thereafter the "Conestoga" reappeared at 
                        Evansville
                     for recruiting purposes. The town had previously been placarded with the following
                    notice: 
                        100 men wanted for the gunboats—the steamer CONESTOGA will arrive at 
                                Evansville
                             on the 25th or thereabouts for enlistment of men for service. Pay,
                            $18.00 per month. Navy rations together with $100 bounty at the end of
                            the war, with usual land grants. For particulars see handbills. A good chance for
                        seamen.
                    Although the "Conestoga" did not arrive until the 30th of August and left
                    for Cairo on September 2, she had on board nearly fifty men who had been recruited here. Undoubtedly
                    she would have recruited many more had the river not started falling rapidly, imperiling her chances
                    of getting to her base at Cairo. The "Conestoga" was to become a very frequent
                    visitor to 
                        Evansville
                     and the waters surrounding. When she slunk upstream on November 24 and moored in front
                    of the city with a new coat of black paint she was designated by the citizens as the
                    "Lincoln Sneak."24
            
            Captain Dexter, that gruff, fearless, outspoken but lovable and bewhiskered speed-demon of the 
                        Ohio
                    , continued to run his fast red-hulled stern-wheeler "Charley Bowen"
                    in the 
                        Evansville
                     and Cairo trade and delivered the mail despite the hazards of navigation. She was now
                    armed, however, with a 4-pound cannon on the forecastle. Captain "Gus" Lemcke
                    joined Dexter en the "Bowen," taking charge of the office, for his own large
                    side-wheeler, the "Fanny Bullitt," was laid up at 
                        Louisville
                     for lack of business. Many times 
                  
                     23
                            Ibid., August 9 and 12. 1861. David D. Porter, The Naval
                                History of the Civil War (
                                New York
                            , 1886), 136. The "Taylor" mounted six 64-pounders in
                            broadside and a 32-pounder in the stern; the "
                                Lexington
                            " mounted four 64-pounders in broadside and one 32-pounder in the
                            stern; and the "Conestoga" mounted two 32-pounders in the broadside and a
                            small gun in the stern. The "A. O. Taylor" was referred to in the naval
                            reports as the gunboat "Tyler" or the "A. O. Tyler." See 
                                United States
                             Naval War Records, Official Records of the Union and Confederate
                                Navies (1894–1922), ser. 1, XXII, 283, 299, and 954. Operations on the
                            western rivers are described in the various reports included in volumes XXII to XXVII of the
                            above series.
                  
                     24
                            
                                Evansville
                            
                            Daily Journal, August 22, September 3, and November 26, 1861.
               
                     at Uniontown, Caseyville, Carrsville and other 
                        Kentucky
                     landings below, the mails could not be landed because of the presence of guerrilla
                    bands and small detachments of Confederate soldiers.
            Dexter was known as a staunch Union man and was hated by the Southern sympathizers for this reason.
                    The Stars and Stripes were ever flying at the jackstaff of the "Bowen." At one
                    time, on approaching Paducah, Dexter and Lemcke saw that the landing was packed with an excited mob,
                    some of whom were recognized as rabid Confederates. Shouts went up demanding that the Stars and
                    Stripes be lowered and that the boat be surrendered. As the boat landed several of the ring leaders
                    came forward to the edge of the wharfboat and reiterated their demands. Dexter coldly replied:
                    "Not as long as I have one shot left." He pointed to the cannon on the forecastle
                    where one of the crew stood with a burning fuse, and also to the brass nozzle of the hot water hose
                    in the hands of the engineer. "Lower it if you dare," he shouted. The boat then
                    pushed off for Cairo, leaving the mob somewhat awed.25
            
            A group of Confederates at Owensboro fired on the flag of the "Sam Orr," as she was
                    leaving that place on June 15, 1861, on a trip to 
                        Pittsburgh
                    . During the low water of late August, she consented to run in place of the Fowler
                    Boys' "Dunbar," and while so engaged was seized at Paducah in retaliation
                    for the seizure of the "W. B. Terry," a few days previously by the gunboat "
                        Lexington
                    ." Captain McClurg of the "Orr" and a portion of his crew
                    arrived at 
                        Evansville
                     on the "
                        Nashville
                    ," August 27, and reported the seizure of his boat. He stated that on
                    approaching Paducah he met the "Eastport" towing the "Dunbar" up
                    the 
                        Tennessee
                     River with Gus Fowler on board. He said his suspicions were aroused but that he thought
                    little more about it, since the Fowlers had pledged their honor to him that no harm should overtake
                    the "Orr" while she ran in the "Dunbar's" place. When
                    in sight of Paducah he noticed that the landing and the wharf were crowded with people, which was
                    rather unusual; so he watched carefully, expecting if any evil designs were contemplated some of his
                    many friends at Paducah would give him a warning signal. The "Orr" had hardly
                    touched 
                  
                     25 Lemcke, Reminiscences, 191—92.
               
                     the wharfboat before a rush was made and several men, including
                    some of the officers of the "Terry," sprang on the lower deck of the
                    "Orr," one of whom was Whyte Fowler, who immediately ascended to the hurricane
                    deck where Captain McClurg was standing. Fowler then drew a pistol, cocked it, and leveled it at
                    McClurg's head, telling him that he was a prisoner. McClurg replied that he was unarmed and
                    could make no resistance, so he stepped down onto the wharfboat. Several shots were fired, one man
                    being injured. Fowler rang the bell, the boat shoved off, with the greater part of the
                    "Orr's" crew on board, and the Confederate crew gave three cheers for
                    Jeff Davis. The crew of the "Orr" was taken about a mile above Paducah and put
                    ashore, but they were not permitted to take their extra clothes and personal effects with them. The
                    mail which was on the boat and its cargo, which was valued at $25,000, were taken up the 
                        Tennessee
                     River. The gunboats at Cairo immediately gave pursuit, but the Fowler gang had too much
                    of a start and secured the "Orr" for the time being up the 
                        Tennessee
                     River. Other Paducah steamers were taken up this river for fear the Union gunboats
                    would seize them in retaliation for the seizure of the "Orr." When the
                    "Emma Duncan," engaged in the 
                        Cincinnati
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                     trade, landed here, a large portion of her freight, which was marked for Paducah, was
                    taken off and stored by order of the Surveyor of the Port to be held until the
                    "Orr" and her cargo were returned.26
            
            Captain Joshua V. Throop, of 
                        Evansville
                    , that genial steam-boatman who in later years was called Captain "Jay
                    Vee," was a half owner of the "Sam Kirkman," a popular packet of the 
                        Louisville
                    , 
                        Evansville
                    , and Paducah trade. Captain Dorsey Smedley of Paducah, who owned the other half
                    interest, wrote Throop that he believed that in the interest of safety the boat should be taken up
                    the 
                        Tennessee
                     River into Dixie. Captain Throop, a Union man, left immediately for Paducah to protect
                    his interests in the boat and to demur to the plan of his Southern partner. When Throop got to
                    Paducah he found that his half interest in the craft had been 
                  
                     26
                            
                                Evansville
                            
                            Daily Journal, June 18, August 20, 27, 28, and September 2, 1861. J.
                            Thomas Scharf, History of the Confederate States Navy (
                                New York
                            , 1887), 242n. The "
                                Nashville
                            " was built at New 
                                Albany
                            , in 1847, with a capacity of 497 tons. Lloyd, Steamboat
                            Directory, 270. For information about the "Sam Orr," see supra, note 16.
               
                     taken up the 
                        Tennessee
                     River with that of his partner's. The "Sam Orr," the
                    "Dunbar," and the "Kirkman" were all fired and sunk to prevent
                    their capture by the Union gunboats.27
            
            At this time the rebels began their depredations along Green River. Navigation was practically at a
                    standstill due to the frequent assaults by the guerrillas on our steamboats in the Green River
                    trade. Two hundred men of the Forty-first Regiment left on the packets, the "W. V.
                    Gillum" and the "Lou Eaves," accompanied by a gun squad and brass cannon
                    to keep order on the river, while the "Mattie Cook," the "Hetty
                    Gilmore," and the "Storm," were busy transporting Union men to
                    Spottsville, 
                        Kentucky
                    , to guard the locks. Several times these boats were diverted to Henderson when rumors
                    reached the city that the rebels were marching on Henderson.28
            
            Upon taking possession of Bowling Green, the rebels rolled large boulders into 
                        Brown
                    's Lock, and it was not until the last of February, 1862, that a boat was able
                    to get above the lock to Bowling Green, all navigation in the interim being necessarily limited to 
                        Rochester
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    , and return. On this occasion the "Mattie Cook" took up a cargo of
                    army supplies to Bowling Green, succeeding in getting over the lock at a time of high water and in
                    bringing back first-hand information of that city's capture.29
            
            After the taking of Paducah by the Union forces under Grant in September, 1861, steamboats of every
                    kind, character, and description were commandeered by the government and ordered to Cairo
                    immediately for government service. The immensity of this steamboat concentration was revealed to
                    the people of 
                        Evansville
                     when on September 18, 1861, a fleet of thirteen steamers, with the steamer "N.
                    W. Thomas" as flagship, and 120 barges, came down to 
                        Evansville
                    , where they laid over to receive further instructions before proceeding 
                  
                     27
                            
                                Evansville
                            
                            Daily Journal, December 4, 1861, and March 27, 1862. It was reported that
                            Gus Fowler wept on the occasion of the sinking of these vessels. The "Sam
                            Kirkman" was built at Paducah, in July, 1858, at a cost of $14,000. She
                            used the machinery of the "Helen Marr." Her tonnage was reported as 245.
                            Smith, Trade and Commerce of 
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1859, p. 38.
                  
                     28
                            
                                Evansville
                            
                            Daily Journal, September 24 and 25, October 7, and November 5, 1861.
                            Lloyd, Steamboat Directory, 271, reported that the
                            "Storm" was a boat of 247 tons, which was built in 
                                Cincinnati
                             in 1848.
                  
                     29
                            
                                Evansville
                            
                            Daily Journal, February 28, 1862.
               
                     to Cairo. A large crowd was on hand at the wharf to greet the
                        fleet.30
            
            One of the boats ordered to Cairo by General Grant was the "Fanny Bullitt." She
                    engaged in expeditions along the 
                        Kentucky
                     shore, pursuing marauders, taking needed forage and supplies, and destroying ferry
                    boats and other water-craft used in smuggling supplies to the rebels. She also engaged in
                    reconnaissance down the 
                        Mississippi
                     to the vicinity of 
                        Columbus
                    , 
                        Mississippi
                    . She was sent with artillery and ammunition to Fort Henry on the 
                        Tennessee
                     River, preparatory to an assault on this Confederate. fort to deprive the Confederates
                    of the control of the 
                        Tennessee
                    . The steamers as well as the gunboats aided in the capture of the fort on February 6,
                    1862. The "Fanny Bullitt" was then ordered to Fort Donelson on the Cumberland. In
                    lightning fashion, Grant, assisted by the gunboats and numerous ordinary river craft, captured the
                    fort on February 15, 1862, with a tremendous loss on both sides. The "Fanny
                    Bullitt" was then ordered to load all the seriously wounded men that she could carry, to
                    proceed to Paducah and report to General Sherman, and to obtain hospitalization for the men wherever
                    possible. "Gus" Lemcke and his crew, after wading knee-deep in the yellow clay of
                    the battle-field near the Fort, loaded two hundred wounded Union soldiers into the boat, and headed
                    down the turbulent swollen Cumberland River without, so he thought, a single
                    nurse or doctor aboard.
            Soon after leaving Fort Donelson, Lemcke left his post and looked into the cabin where the wounded
                    were lying on bloodstained straw. Through one of the cabin doors entered a middle aged woman in a
                    calico dress with her sleeves rolled up to the elbows. She carried in one hand a pail of water and
                    in the other an armful of bedsheets and pillow cases, and two deck hands followed her with pails of
                    hot water. She went about the dimly lighted cabin, washing the blood and grime from the wounded and
                    tearing the sheets and pillow cases into strips for bandages and dressing the bounds. She spoke
                    words of kindness and sympathy to the men and took last parting messages for the loved ones at home.
                    This great woman was the famous Mother Bickerdyke, the volunteer 
                  
                     30
                            Ibid., September 19, 1861. The "N. W. Thomas" was a
                            vessel of 419 tons, which was built in 
                                Cincinnati
                             in 1853. Lloyd, Steamboat Directory, 271.
               
                     nurse, who went about her work administering succor and
                    radiating cheer not only on the battle-field but at most any unexpected point. Unaccompanied, she
                    had boarded the "Fanny Bullitt" without permission and without anyone detecting
                    her presence. She stayed on board until she reached Paducah, where she left for Cairo because she
                    was more sorely needed there.
            On the way upstream all of the 
                        Illinois
                     wounded were taken off at Shawneetown, 
                        Illinois
                    , the few Kentuckians were removed at Henderson, and the Indiana men were taken ashore
                    at 
                        Evansville
                    , where they were placed in the hands of volunteers, mostly women, and doctors and
                    nurses who had been ordered there and at other river points by Governor Oliver P. Morton. The
                    steamer then proceeded to 
                        Louisville
                     where the rest of the wounded were put ashore. The "Fanny Bullitt"
                    was not the only boat that carried the wounded upstream. After the battles of Fort Henry and Fort
                    Donelson almost every boat that came up the river had wounded men aboard, seeking hospitalization
                    for its human cargo in the already crowded hospitals, hotels, wharfboats, and warehouses, while all
                    the boats going downstream carried volunteer surgeons, nurses, and relief committees.
            The "Fanny Bullitt" soon thereafter left 
                        Louisville
                     for Cairo where she was ordered up the 
                        Tennessee
                     River to Pittsburg Landing, 
                        Tennessee
                    , with guns and ammunition, and, after fulfilling this order of General
                    Grant's, was used by him to the time of the Battle of 
                        Shiloh
                     between Pittsburg Landing and his headquarters at Savannah, 
                        Tennessee
                    . This was indeed a hazardous assignment, as the 
                        Tennessee
                     River was literally lined with rebel sharpshooters lying in ambush, stealthily waiting
                    to assault the next Yankee craft which chanced to pass. To resist these guerrilla attacks, the
                    boilers were protected by hay and cotton bales, while boiler iron protected the pilot house. Nearly
                    all the river craft followed this procedure.31
            
            After 
                        Shiloh
                    , the river was filled with steamboats carrying the wounded, even to a greater degree
                    than after the battle of Fort Donelson. Hospital boats with their yellow flags dotted the river from
                    Cairo to 
                        Cincinnati
                    . The "Charley Bowen" was dispatched down the river by the city and
                    state to carry messengers of mercy to Pittsburg Landing. 
                  
                     31 Lemcke, Reminiscences, 153–61.
               
                    Governor Morton and the Adjutant-General came to 
                        Evansville
                    , chartered the "Citizen," and proceeded to the 
                        Tennessee
                     River with hospital supplies.32
            
            Commodore Andrew H. Foote had been injured at the battle of Fort Donelson. His injury becoming more
                    serious, he came to 
                        Evansville
                     en route to 
                        Cleveland
                     soon after the battle of Pittsburg Landing. He was on the "DeSoto,"
                    one of the boats which he captured at the battle of Island No. 10. Though suffering severely from
                    his wound, he talked and conversed at 
                        Evansville
                     with those at the wharf. His was not a strange face for on numerous occasions he had
                    come up the river on one of the gunboats. This was the last, however, that 
                        Evansville
                     was to see of this first commander of the gunboats, as he died very shortly
                        thereafter.33
            
            New battering rams passed down the river periodically, to Cairo and thence to service on the 
                        Mississippi
                    . They were large river steamboats with heavy solid bows added and their sides covered
                    with heavy timbers. Almost daily, there passed up the river steamers which could not be identified
                    because of the mud, blood, grime, and dilapidation. Even the palatial "Autocrat"
                    did not look natural, although she was in good condition considering that nearly one hundred
                    guerrillas had opened fire on her from the west bank of the 
                        Tennessee
                     River, perforating her in two hundred places. Several cannon balls went through her
                    pilot house.34
            
            On the afternoon of July 17, 1862, word came to 
                        Evansville
                     that Adam R. Johnson's marauders had crossed the river to 
                        Newburgh
                    , Indiana. Immediately a company of infantry and a squad of artillery, with two guns,
                    left for 
                        Newburgh
                     on the local packet, "Eugene." The "Courier," lying
                    at the wharf, was fired up and, after Captain Dexter had armed his crew, she also steamed up the
                    river for 
                        Newburgh
                    . The "Courier" found a boat at the mouth of Green River which had
                    carried the marauders across the river. She took possession of it, and the expedition captured
                    several prisoners.35
            
            
               
                  32
                        
                            Evansville
                        
                        Daily Journal, April 11, and May 12, 1862.
               
                  33
                        Ibid., May 12, 1862, and James M. Hoppin, Life of Andrew Hull
                            Foote (
                            New York
                        , 1874), 227–28.
               
                  34
                        
                            Evansville
                        
                        Daily Journal, May 16 and 17, and June 9, 1862.
               
                  35
                        Ibid., July 18. 1862. The "Courier" belonged to Captain H.
                        T. Dexter, Captain J. V. Throop, and Gus Dusouchet. Lloyd, Steamboat
                        Directory, 268, listed her as a boat of 165 tons, while Smith, Trade and
                            Commerce of 
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1859, p. 37 gives her tonnage as 267.
            
            
            Not long thereafter the "Lou Eaves" was converted into a gunboat, known as
                    "Gunboat No. 76." Colonel John W. Foster commanded an expedition to Spottsville, 
                        Kentucky
                    , on the "Lou Eaves" when it was heard that General Simon B. Buckner
                    had sent a force to destroy the locks there. The marauders were put to flight but only after
                    considerable damage had been done, by throwing several tons of rocks above the upper gate.36
            
            Guerrilla warfare was becoming more serious and travel on the 
                        Ohio
                     River was extremely hazardous. To check these activities, the second 
                        Michigan
                     Cavalry was brought upstream on a fleet of fourteen steamboats that stopped at the 
                        Evansville
                     wharf. It was convoyed by the "Fairplay," the flagship of the
                    mosquito fleet. Nearly every boat, however, which landed at the 
                        Evansville
                     wharf told of encountering guerrillas. A capture of the "Eugene" was
                    attempted at
                        Randolph
                    , 
                        Tennessee
                    . The "D. B. 
                        Campbell
                    " was fired on near Union-town, 
                        Kentucky
                    . About two miles above Curlew, 
                        Kentucky
                    , the "
                        Nashville
                    " was fired on, sixteen shots passing through her pilot house. Twenty
                    guerrillas crossed the river at West 
                        Franklin
                    , Indiana, ransacked the countryside, and took two skiffs, several horses, and a wood
                    boat. The "May Duke," which had a special permit to land at Uniontown, was boarded
                    by fifteen or twenty marauders who took possession of the boat, amused themselves playing cards and
                    drinking for an hour before permitting it to proceed on its journey to 
                        Evansville
                    .37
            
            Guerrilla warfare became so extensive along the river that Acting Rear Admiral David D. Porter, in
                    command of the 
                        Mississippi
                     Squadron, issued the following order at 
                        Evansville
                    : 
                        After October 25, all vessels found landing cargoes at any point below Cairo, and between
                            Cairo and 
                                Louisville
                            , except at places specified in collectors' permits, or by permission
                            of naval commanding officers, 
                        
                           36
                                    
                                        Evansville
                                    
                                    Daily Journal, September 10, 1862.
                        
                           37
                                    Ibid., September 16, 18, and 19, October 18 and 23, and November
                                    10 and 18, 1862. The "Fairplay" had been captured on the 
                                        Mississippi
                                     from the Confederates with a cargo of five or six thousand arms bound
                                    for the Confederate Army. It was a former cotton boat, which was casemated and made
                                    into a gunboat, carrying four 12-pounders. She plied the 
                                        Ohio
                                     River between Smithland and 
                                        Louisville
                                    , 
                                        Kentucky
                                    , with 
                                        Evansville
                                     as her headquarters. LeRoy Fitch, U.S.N., was the Lieutenant Commanding
                                    and the Executive Officer of the mosquito fleet.
                     
                             or at places occupied by U. S. Troops, shall be brought
                            to Cairo and be detained until the matter is investigated.38
                  
                    In support of this, Lieutenant LeRoy Fitch, of the gunboat "Fairplay,"
                    issued a further order: 
                        All ferries on the 
                                Ohio
                             River between 
                                Evansville
                             and Paducah, 
                                Kentucky
                            , except at towns of Henderson and Smithland, are from this date suspended until
                            further notice.
                        All boats, skiffs, scows or flats found on the 
                                Kentucky
                             shore not at towns garrisoned by U. S. Forces, will be destroyed….
                        Masters of all freight and passenger steamers plying between 
                                Evansville
                             and Cairo are forbidden to take on freight or passengers for, or under any
                            circumstances, land, at any town or landing on the 
                                Kentucky
                             shore, not garrisoned by U. S. Forces.
                    The above order was not to apply, however, if the boat was taking on coal or wood, or when
                    convoyed by a gunboat. An additional order provided that goods of all descriptions were not to cross
                    the river from 
                        Evansville
                     without a pass and that all crossings must be made in the daytime between the hours of
                    five thirty in the morning and six o'clock in the evening.39 Steamboats
                    not in the employ of the government were prohibited, about a month later, from running up Green
                    River. This caused the postmaster of 
                        Evansville
                    , James H. McNeely, to issue the following notice: "No mails are sent at
                    present to any 
                        Kentucky
                     town except Henderson, Smith-land or Paducah on account of ‘guerrilla
                    troubles,’ and that Green River mails are to be sent via Owensboro."40
            
            Many boats arrived from downstream and from Green River with rebel prisoners. On one occasion, after
                    the battle of Murfreesboro, the "Mattie Cook," which was loading at the 
                        Evansville
                     wharf for 
                        Cincinnati
                    , was ordered to unload and proceed to Bowling Green with the "Hettie
                    Gilmore." These boats returned to 
                        Evansville
                     with their decks crowded with rebel prisoners taken at the battle of Murfreesboro. The
                    prisoners were then transferred to the "Courier" for Cairo, after many had been
                    quartered in the Canal Bank overnight.41
            
            The first of the year 1863 saw an even greater demand 
                  
                     38
                            Ibid., October 27, 1862.
                  
                     39
                            Ibid., Mrs. George Clifford, 
                                Evansville
                            , Indiana, has one of the original passes by which permission to cross the river
                            was given. It reads: "By order of the Commanding General, — is allowed
                            to pass from 
                                Evansville
                             to — on the river, having taken the oath to support the Constitution
                            of the 
                                United States
                            , and to be true and loyal to the 
                                United States
                             and the State of Indiana, and that he will not divulge or reveal anything he
                            may see or hear within our lines, or give any aid or comfort to our enemies."
                  
                     40
                            
                                Evansville
                            
                            Daily Journal, November 23, 1862.
                  
                     41
                            Ibid., January 3, 13, 14, and 17, 1863.
               
                     for boats in the government service. What few boats were
                    permitted to run on private account carried capacity cargoes. Of the steamboats which passed down
                    the river, few returned, for the government pressed them into service at Cairo. Fleets of transports
                    ladened with provisions for the army of General William S. Rosecrans passed down the river and were
                    convoyed up the Cumberland River by gunboats. The larger and faster boats in
                    these fleets took the smaller and slower ones in tow by lashing them along their sides. Each of the
                    boats used cotton bales as bulkheads to protect their boilers and engines.42
            
            In one of these fleets of transports was the "Mary Crane," which had been loaded at 
                        Evansville
                     by the quartermaster with the following cargo for the Union forces near 
                        Nashville
                    : 134 barrels of beans, 50 barrels of sugar, 488 barrels of flour, 10 barrels of
                    molasses, 226 barrels of pork, 35 boxes of candles, 50 boxes of soap, and 300 bags of corn. At
                    Betsy's Landing, near the shoals of 
                        Nashville
                    , she stopped to take on wood and was captured by the guerrillas, the pilot killed, and
                    the cargo lost.43
            
            The government, through Brigadier General Alfred W. Ellet, commander of the 
                        Mississippi
                     Marine Brigade, purchased the "Autocrat," the "E. H.
                    Fairchild" and other boats. They were covered at New 
                        Albany
                    , Indiana, with heavy oak timber, which stood up from the outside guards to the height
                    of the hurricane roof, with apertures for ordnance. These boats, part of the 
                        Mississippi
                     Marine Brigade, passed 
                        Evansville
                     on February 27, 1863, on their way to 
                        St. Louis
                     to receive their armament. The "Autocrat" became the flagship of the
                    brigade, while the "E. H. Fairchild" served as the commissary boat.44
            
            
               
                  42
                        Ibid., January 6 and 27, 1863. One of these fleets which passed 
                            Evansville
                         was composed of the following boats, all of which were well-known to 
                            Evansville
                        : "Robert B. Hamilton." "James Thompson,"
                        "Capitola." an 
                            Evansville
                         boat. "
                            Poland
                        ," "
                            Empire City
                        ," "Horizon," "Ella Faber,"
                        "Hazel Dell," an 
                            Evansville
                        , Paducah, and Cairo packet, "Tempest."
                        "Diadem," "John A. Fisher." "May Duke."
                        "Dove." "Ollie Sullivan," an 
                            Evansville
                         and 
                            Wabash
                         River packet, "Freestone," also an 
                            Evansville
                         and 
                            Wabash
                         River packet. "Huntress," "Shenango,"
                        "St. Cloud," "Adalaide," "
                            Arizona
                        ," "Lady Franklin," "Science," and
                        "Golden Era."
               
                  43
                        Ibid., January 23 and 24, 1863. The hull of the "Mary Crane"
                        was built at 
                            Madison
                        , Indiana, her machinery installed and her upper works completed at 
                            Evansville
                         in the summer of 1862.
               
                  44
                        Ibid. December 15, 1862. February 28, and March 2, 1863, and March 4, 1864.
                        The "E. H. Fairchild" was formerly a 
                            Louisville
                         and
            
            
            The last great effort of General Grant on the 
                        Mississippi
                     was to capture Vicksburg. Ultimate success was preceded by various unsuccessful
                    attempts, in all of which 
                        Evansville
                     boats participated. The "Charley Bowen" arrived at 
                        Evansville
                     on March 18, 1863, from below and was immediately ordered to Cairo stripped of all
                    carpets, beds, and furniture. The editor of the 
                        Evansville
                    
                    Journal, Mr. F. M. Thayer, evidently feeling that a scoop was in the offing, left
                    on the "Bowen." The Negro members of the crew were somewhat perturbed by this
                    order to go south and it was said that it took a considerable quantity of whiskey to induce them to
                    go as far as Cairo. The "Courier" was met at Shawneetown and its Captain jokingly
                    told the Captain of the "Bowen" that the government found it utterly impossible to
                    take Vicksburg without the assistance of the "Charley Bowen."45 At Cairo orders were received to report immediately at 
                        Memphis
                    . After proceeding to 
                        Mound City
                    , 
                        Illinois
                    , to take on coal and to exchange the Negro crew for a white one, she proceeded to 
                        Memphis
                    , and thereafter to Helena, 
                        Arkansas
                    . Here she became a part of the expedition which attempted to force a channel from the 
                        Mississippi
                     to the upper Yazoo River in order to turn General John C.
                    Pemberton's flank and make possible an attack on Vicksburg. Excerpts from
                    Thay-er's description of the trip follow: 
                        In a boat loaded to the guards with cannon and ordnance stores, we left Helena [
                                Arkansas
                            ] on Saturday afternoon for the Yazoo Pass and reached Yazoo Pass on Friday,
                            March 27….
                        … [It is] hard to describe the difficulties attending navigation of the Yazoo Pass
                            by steamboats, but barges and flats could be taken through it without difficulty or danger
                            and in less time than steamboats….
                        Not a steamer has made the trip without presenting the appearance in a greater or less degree
                            of a complete wreck. Our own boat, the "Curlew," would hardly be
                            recognized in her present dilapidated condition by her 
                                Evansville
                             friends.
                        The Pass from the 
                                Mississippi
                             into Moon Lake is short and not unusually crooked. The stream is narrow and the
                            current very swift but boats get through without much trouble or danger. The
                            "Charley Bowen" with two companies of the llth Indiana had been sent in
                                
                        
                           
                                        New Orleans
                                     packet. She was named for Elisha H. Fairchild, who was one of the first
                                    persons born in 
                                        Vanderburgh
                                     County, Indiana. He was engaged as a forwarding and commission merchant
                                    at 
                                        New Orleans
                                     in 1863, although he had been so engaged previously at 
                                        Evansville
                                    .
                        
                           45
                                    Ibid., March 19 and 26, 1863.
                     
                             advance of us to cut the levee and widen the pass, and
                            when we arrived the water was rushing through the enlarged opening and spreading over the
                            country.
                        We entered the pass to the Coldwater, which is estimated to be about sixteen miles in length,
                            on Saturday afternoon, in company with the steamer "Alone." Our progress
                            that afternoon was one mile….
                        On Sunday morning we were under headway by seven o'clock. The water was swift and
                            rapidly rising. At times the boat would go crushing into the brush and timber on one side
                            and then her stern would swing around, sweeping away the brush and dead limbs on the other
                            side. At times there would be a shower of broken limbs and dead wood swept down by the
                            chimneys which would cover the hurricane roof.
                        Again the struggle between the chimneys and some obstinate limb would be so fiercely
                            contested as to leave the result for a time in doubt until the limb would finally give way
                            and come down with a crash that startled every passenger. There are few bends in the Pass.
                            The turns are very abrupt, forming either acute or right angles. Many of these turns can be
                            made only by sending a small boat in advance, with a line. Fastening one end of it to a
                            tree, the crew could pull the boat around to point with safety if not with ease. Thus did we
                            work our way slowly along, each day's experience being similar to the last.
                        On Sunday we passed the steamer "Luella" sunk. She was heavily loaded with
                            commissary stores, most of which were lost….
                         Our boat was guarded by a detachment of the 56th 
                                Ohio
                             Volunteers. Trouble from guerrillas was anticipated and our boys began making
                            preparations for them by barricading the boats….
                        We arrived at Coldwater River on Monday, at 4 o'clock. It proved to be but a
                            repetition of the Pass in every particular…. Our boat was damaged more in the
                            Coldwater than in the Pass.
                        We reached Tallahatchie River on Wednesday. At the mouth of the Coldwater lay the mosquito
                            gunboat "Petrie" ….
                        We arrived here (near Greenwood) on the Tallahatchie River Friday morning…. The
                            gingerbread work on the boat was all torn off; one of her fantails shattered; two of her
                            rudders lost or broken; the chimney guys broken or torn down; jackstaff gone and other
                                damage.46
                  
                    
            
            The "Curlew" finally got back to the 
                        Evansville
                     wharf on May 6, 1863, in a dilapidated condition. Her stancheons on both sides were
                    torn out, her outside cabin doors torn off, some of her bulkheads caved in, and her starboard
                    fantail carried away. She was immediately laid up for repair. The "Bowen" likewise
                    returned from this expedition and immediately underwent repairs. Many other boats passed up from
                        
                  
                     46
                            Ibid., April 10, 1863. Editor Thayer transferred to the
                            "Curlew" at 
                                Memphis
                            . The "Curlew" was built in the spring of 1860, and was
                            150' in length by 26 1/2' beam. She was owned by Captain Paul F. Semonin,
                            of Henderson, 
                                Kentucky
                            .
               
                     this expedition, including the "General
                    Anderson," "Lavina Logan," "Rose Hambleton," and the
                    "Armada," each with her chimneys and escape pipes knocked off and guards
                    practically torn away. Although the latter was on her first trip under Captain Throop's
                    ownership, she was pressed into government service on the 
                        Tennessee
                     River and from there sent with the ill-fated Yazoo Pass expedition.47
            
            Very shortly the "Courier," "Armada," and
                    "Bowen" were used as troop transports between 
                        Memphis
                     and Helena, 
                        Arkansas
                    . The "Courier," however, collided with the "Des
                    Arc," thirty miles below 
                        Memphis
                     and sank. She had on board the Forty-ninth 
                        Illinois
                     Regiment. She ran ashore and unloaded all of the crew and half of the soldiers before
                    she careened and sank. The boat was stripped of furniture and bedding, and plans were made to raise
                    her immediately, but guerrillas burned her superstructure.48
            
            With the capture of Vicksburg, and Port Hudson, 
                        Louisiana
                    , the 
                        Mississippi
                     was open to 
                        New Orleans
                     and on August 20, 1863, W. N. Aikman and Company made the first shipment by river from 
                        Evansville
                     to 
                        New Orleans
                     since the blockading of the 
                        Mississippi
                    .49
            
            During the first part of January, 1864, navigation was completely suspended at 
                        Evansville
                     and other points upstream, because of ice. Captain Dexter took advantage of the
                    situation to engage in ice skating on the river, while the converted "Lou Eaves,"
                    Commodore Mitchell's "Gunboat No. 76," was making a desperate attempt to
                    free herself from being crushed in the harbor. The lull in navigation due to the ice temporarily
                    caused a dwindling of guerrilla activities and the surveyor of the port lifted all restrictions on
                    trade with 
                        Kentucky
                    . The "R. B. Speed" and the "R. K. Dunkerson," both 
                        Evansville
                     packets, feeling very secure, proceeded up Green River. When the
                    "Speed" reached Ray's landing, about two in the morning, some thirty of
                    Captain Bennett's marauders fired upon her and compelled her to land. The 
                  
                     47
                            Ibid., April 15 and 29, May 7, August 29, and September 19, 1863. The
                            "General Anderson" was a regular 
                                Evansville
                            , Paducah, and Cairo packet, having entered the trade in the fall of 1860. The
                            "Armada" was purchased by Captain J. V. Throop and others at 
                                Cincinnati
                             in February, 1863, for $40,000. She was a side-wheeler of
                            187' length, by 34' beam, and 5' depth of hold, with a capacity
                            of approximately 400 tons.
                  
                     48
                            Ibid., August 29, and September 19, 1863.
                  
                     49
                            Ibid., September 14, 1863.
               
                     gang boarded the vessel and commenced rifling the boat,
                    officers, and passengers, while the Negro hands were driven off the boat. The gang made the
                    "Speed" their headquarters until the "R. K. Dunkerson" was
                    sighted and captured. The guerrillas boarded this vessel and demanded all government property, but
                    promised to respect private property. Captain Drinkwater of the "Dunkerson" stated
                    that there was not: any government property aboard. The marauders then searched the boat, breaking
                    open boxes and trunks, but found no government property except the mail which they opened. Bennett
                    stated they would not touch the safe of the boat. After they had been on board some five hours, the
                    gang demanded breakfast, and after it was prepared, graciously insisted that the passengers eat
                    first. After breakfast Bennett told Captain Drinkwater to get up steam and leave. Four of the gang
                    protested the release of the boat and, as the "Dunkerson" left shore, fired
                    several shots at her. Tt was told on good authority at the time that a young lady, the fiancee of
                    Captain Bennett, who was a passenger on the "Dunkerson," persuaded Captain Bennett
                    to spare the lives of Captain Drinkwater and his passengers, and their property.50
            
            Admiral Porter, in preparation for his Red River expedition, pressed the "Superior"
                    and the "Hetty Gilmore," local packets, into service, together with many other
                    steamers, including his famous flagship the "Autocrat." When two hospital steamers
                    lying at the 
                        Evansville
                     wharf were ordered south at the same time, indications were that there was to be plenty
                    of activity in some quarter. Admiral Porter's Red River expedition is too well known for
                    elaboration, but it is sufficient to note that the "Hetty Gilmore" was practically
                    cut to pieces by cannon balls during the prepress of the expedition.
            The "Superior" left 
                        New Orleans
                     on April 18, having on board the Third 
                        Rhode Island
                     Cavalry, which was destined for 
                        Alexandria
                    , 
                        Louisiana
                    . At Tunica Bayou, 
                        Louisiana
                    , twelve miles below the mouth of Red River, they were fired 
                  
                     50
                            Ibid., January 11, 12, 13, and October 25, 1864. The "R. B.
                            Speed." formerly the "Mollie Funk," was in the 
                                Evansville
                             and Pond River trade. The "R. K. Dunkerson" was constructed
                            at Parkersburg, West 
                                Virginia
                            , in the spring of 1863, expressly for the 
                                Evansville
                             and Green River trade. She was named for R. K. Dunkerson, a prominent 
                                Evansville
                             citizen. Her approximate dimensions were 130' length by 28'
                            beam.
               
                     upon from a rebel battery of twelve-pounder guns. Eleven rounds
                    were fired, only two of which struck the boats, one shell passing through the ladies'
                    cabin, setting a stateroom on fire and exploding the pantry.
            On entering Red River, she was convoyed by "Gunboat No. 9," the "St.
                    Clair." While in a bend of the river on April 21, a battery of two guns suddenly opened
                    fire upon them, manned by rebel artillery, supported by a large force of cavalry and infantry.
                    Instantly all was confusion. The boat would undoubtedly have been captured, but for the coolness of
                    Captain Dexter. A shell exploded on the hurricane deck near one of the chimneys, killing two men and
                    wounding seventeen, while another shell entered the pilot house, piercing the heavy iron casing as
                    if it were paper. The Red River pilot threw himself upon the floor and rang the bell to stop her,
                    crying out: "Surrender her; let us surrender her." George See, of 
                        Evansville
                    , the boat's regular pilot, sprang to the wheel and proceeded upstream. The
                    balls from the enemies' rifles fell like hail upon the casemates, over fifty shots striking
                    the pilot house. One spoke of the wheel was shot into splinters, while another bullet buried itself
                    in the wheel. Cotton was piled upon the boiler and the hurricane decks, forming barricades behind
                    which the men were enabled to return the fire. The enemy struck across the point in order to head
                    off the "Superior." The firing on the boat was continued up the river a distance
                    of two miles. When the enemy retreated Colonel Parker ordered his men to fire upon every white man
                    they saw. This was construed to include every dwelling house. During the fight the
                    "Superior" received over two hundred shots from the musketry.
            Both the "Hetty Gilmore" and the "Superior" proceeded to 
                        New Orleans
                     after the return of the expedition, the former remaining for repairs, while the latter
                    proceeded to its home port of 
                        Evansville
                    . The editor of the Cairo News gave a good idea of the
                    "Superior's" condition on her journey back up the 
                        Ohio
                    , saying, 
                        She is certainly the best ventilated airy summer craft that floats upon Northern waters. Her
                            cabins and staterooms are most beautifully ornamented with bullet holes, and her chimneys
                            present a splendid specimen of network having about forty shotholes to a square foot.51
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  51
                        Ibid., May 9, 19, and 23, 1864. The "Superior" was purchased
                        by Captain Dexter in February, 1863, for the 
                            Evansville
                         and 
                            Memphis
                         trade.
            
            
            The Red River expedition over, our steamboats were almost exclusively engaged until the end of the
                    war in transporting quartermasters' supplies for the Union forces. On one occasion as many
                    as two thousand head of cattle were forwarded by our river fleet at one time for General
                    Sherman's army. Many times our entire fleet was taken over by the Quartermaster.
            Newly constructed local boats such as the "Fanny Gilbert" and the "Emma 
                        Brown
                    ," were put in government service immediately upon their completion. This was
                    true of the "Sam Orr"; yes, the "Sam Orr," for despite the fact
                    that her charred remains lay at the bottom of the 
                        Tennessee
                     River for three years, she was raised and rebuilt by her 
                        Evansville
                     owners.52
            
            Guerrillas carried on their depredations up Green River and at various points on the 
                        Ohio
                     until the very last, but there was not that same spirit or activity in steamboating at
                    our wharf or elsewhere that there had been during all the war period to the middle of the year 1864.
                    If local steam-boating had not declined it is doubtful that Captain Henry T. Dexter, despite his
                    propensities for horse racing, would have attended the races at 
                        St. Louis
                     in November, 1864, at which time he was reputed to have won enough to buy a new
                        steamboat.53
            
            When the war was over, boat after boat brought soldiers by the hundreds upstream to various points,
                    to be mustered out of service. Other steamboats limped to their home ports to be dismantled. Every
                    vestige of the war was soon removed from the waterfront. The "Union Wigwam," the
                    old government warehouse near Robert Barnes' residence, was razed; the gunboat
                    "Lou Eaves" sold to private interests, as was the government wharfboat. The cannon
                    which had seen service on the forecastle of the "Charley Bowen," was installed as
                    a hitching post at Captain Dexter's residence, and now the Captain could give his exclusive
                    time to fast steamboats and fast horses.
            
               
                  52 The "Fanny Gilbert" was named for the daughter of
                        Captain John S. Gilbert, of Golconda, 
                            Illinois
                        , who later moved to 
                            Evansville
                        . The "Emma Brown" was named for the young daughter of William
                        Brown, of Brown-Dunkerson and Company of 
                            Evansville
                        . The boat was a small vessel of 108 tons which was built in 
                            Memphis
                         in 1854, according to Lloyd, Steamboat Directory, 268.
               
                  53
                        
                            Evansville
                        
                        Daily Journal, November 15, 1864.
            
         
         
         
            Indiana Historical Society
            CHRISTOPHER B. COLEMAN
            
            An interesting proposal is being considered by the Executive Committee of the Indiana Historical
                    Society and by others with reference to the more effective development of historical writing. The
                    proposal is that the educational institutions of the state and the county historical societies join
                    in an effort to get an adequate history of every county in the state and to have it published before
                    the sesquicentennial of Indiana's admission into the Union. If the year 1966 seems too
                    remote for such consideration, it may be looked upon as the latest date at which the last straggler
                    should be brought to time, and not the date for progressive counties to set.
            County histories in the past have had a dubious reputation. Many of them were published as money
                    making commercial enterprises and little regard was paid to the adequacy and accuracy of the
                    historical narrative. They were put through by high-pressure salesmanship and subtle appeals to the
                    vanity of people who were willing to pay to have their biography, and perhaps their photograph,
                    printed in a county history. The publishers occasionally got a real historian to write the county
                    history. Such volumes are now important sources of information. For the most part, however, the
                    persons who actually did the writing were neither historians nor good writers, and the result has
                    been of little value to anybody except the publishers.
            Good or bad, however, many of these old county histories are now the only source of information
                    available to most people about the early history of the counties whose names they bear. Even those
                    who are most keenly aware of their deficiencies use them in default of other sources. Well-conducted
                    libraries are all the time trying to secure copies of county histories as their original copies wear
                    out. Various W.P.A. projects in Indiana have greatly hastened the process of destruction by their
                    use of these old books. It is almost impossible now to secure a copy of some of the more important
                    early county histories.
            The plan which produced most of the county histories does not seem to be in operation now. Other
                    sources of biographical publicity have cut the ground from under it. The Citizens Historical
                    Association, with headquarters at 
                        Indianapolis
                    ,  affords a cheaper and a better way of securing
                    biographical sketches; it preserves but does not publish them. Possibly future centennials may bring
                    the old style county history back, but, for the present, the field is not being cultivated.
            Educational institutions, especially universities, colleges, and the larger high schools, can do much
                    toward interesting students in the history of their localities, in giving them some idea of what a
                    county history should be, and training them in thorough historical study and in historical writing.
                    County historical societies ought to be able to select the proper person in each county to write the
                    county history, or at least to have various chapters written by the right persons and edited by a
                    capable person. The county historical society might also do much to promote the sale and
                    distribution of county histories.
            It may well be that in some cases the county histories advocated would take up the narrative where
                    the old, fairly satisfactory, county history left off. In most cases, it would be desirable, if not
                    necessary, to go back to the beginning—early settlements and the establishment of the
                    county. The mistake of the older histories of giving a history of the whole state, and sometimes of
                    the 
                        United States
                    , down to the time when the local narrative could be begun, should by all means be
                    avoided.
            For the history of most counties in Indiana, the county records in the courthouses furnish a
                    substantial basis. In many counties the Historical Records Survey of the Work Projects
                    Administration has issued Inventories of the County Archives. These inventories should be a help in
                    learning what material is at hand and how it can be used. All possible sources of information, of
                    course, should be used, all of them with due caution. Even oral tradition coming down through
                    several generations, though it has usually been relied upon far too much and has to be discounted
                    according to scientific historical principles, often gives a flavor which makes the difference
                    between an interesting and an unreadable narrative.
            The whole plan for new county histories is still in the discussion stage. This suggestion is made,
                    not to start the production of county histories, but to present the matter for consideration.
         
         
         
            Documents
            TWO ACCOUNTS OF THE UPPER WABASH COUNTRY, 1819–20
            
               Edited by DOROTHY RlKER
            
            The authors of the two accounts, Joseph S. 'Allen and Henry P. Benton, were engaged in
                    surveying the reserves granted the Miami and Potawatomi Indians and half-breeds by the treaties of
                    1818. The work was begun in September of the following year. After surveying two small reserves, one
                    on Flat Rock Creek and the other at the Forks of the 
                        Wabash
                    , Allen and his companions began laying out the boundaries of the Big Miami Reserve,
                    south of the 
                        Wabash
                     River. On November 25, 1819, they were forced to discontinue because of the hostility
                    of the Indians. Work was resumed the following spring. The official reports of the surveys, signed
                    by Allen as deputy surveyor, are in the Land Office in the State House, 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The manuscripts of the journals printed here are in the William Henry Smith Memorial
                    Library of the Indiana Historical Society. They were copied by Mrs. Gay Ferguson of the library
                    staff. Notes have been added by Dorothy Riker of the Indiana Historical Bureau.
            Since the author of the first account included very little punctuation and since the capitalization
                    is so irregular, it is difficult to be certain where a sentence begins or stops. A double space
                    indicates the probable break between sentences. Errors in spelling are numerous, but are not
                    indicated by the use of sic because its use would be so frequent as to disrupt the narrative.
            GEOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF THE COUNTRY ON THE UPPER WABASH, IN 1819
            
                    BY JOSEPH S. ALLEN
               
                    The 
                            Wabash
                         heads within the state of ohio near to Fort Recovery and Runs North of West from
                        that place Receving in its course Several Small Creek's the first of Which is a creek
                        cald Beaver Which heads near to the St Mary's River and runs S W untill it falls into
                        the 
                            Wabash
                         12 miles below Recovery this is the Stream over which Gen. Wayn was obliged to
                        build a Bridge before he could pass it it being impassable for horses owing to the softness of
                        its bottom there are two other Branches falls into it on the north Side above the mouth of flat
                        Rock which head in the large wet Prairies near the River St
                        Mary's Flat Rock is a hansome Stream of about 50 links in Width and falls into the
                        wabash about 40 miles below Fort Recovery on the South Side of the wabash it is a good Stream
                        for Mills having Sufficient fall for that purpose—Its course is from S E to N W the
                        land near the 
                            Wabash
                         is Rich and Dry and well timbered having plenty of good Water from the Mouth of
                        this creek to fort Recovery but as Soon as you leave the Borders of the River as much as two
                        miles the land is So level that it is With Difficulty you can tell the course the Waters Run
                        there are a great many Swamps and wet Prairies So much So that It becomes Difficult to pass
                        through the timber here is a mixter of Whiteoak and beach With Swampersh [?]—the 
                            Wabash
                         is about two chains wide at the mouth of the said Creek and continues to Run N of
                        West for about twenty miles When It Joins the Portage or little River Which heads near to fort
                        Wayn and runs there west about 12 miles When It Joins the River aboit Which heads near to Eel
                        river and runs South untill it meets the Portage there are Several Prairies near to this place
                        and a Small Indian Villag Right West of this place this River appears Small at the forks it is
                        about 22 links Wide and continues So for about Seven mile's When all at once it becomes
                        a River of about two chains in width it has one Current percevable is Deep and contains
                        multitudes of fish it Runs S W for about 20 miles When it falls into the 
                            Wabash
                         this place is called the forks of the 
                            Wabash
                         there is a large Indian Village here the bank's of the wabash from this
                        place begins to be Rocky a low clift appears alternately on each Side of the River about two
                        miles above the fork's is a Small Clift on the North Side of the River which is
                        infested with the large Spotted Rattlesnaks So much So that it is Dangerous for a person or even
                        any other living thing to approach the place the Indians will not even pass by it within a Small
                        Distence in the Season When the[y] come out they Say that these Reptiles Were Sent there by the
                        great Spiret to gard that place and to hinder them from building a town there it being contrary
                        to his Will they have buried a number of their Dead there there is a nother place below the
                        forks where there is a larg Den or Cabbin of them and Some of the largest perhap's
                        anywhere to be found in this Country the 
                            Wabash
                         Runs from the fork's nearly west for about 20 miles When the Sallemanie
                        puts into it on the South Side it heads near to the N E corner of the 12 mile purchase and Runs
                        a N West Course about 50 miles to its mouth the land along this Stream and near to it is good
                        and well timbered and well watered with fine springs it affords a number of millseats and is a
                        rappid Running Stream
                    the Sallemanie is about one Chain and fifty links wide at its mouth the Bottom is a limestone
                        Rock there is a clift on the South Side about one mile and ahalf above its confluence With the 
                            Wabash
                         I Do not think it an navigable Stream altho it appears as large as little River
                        which is Said to be navigqble for small Craft I Do not consider the 
                            Wabash
                         to be a navigable Stream above the Confluence With the Sallemanie only in the time
                        of high Water there are many larg round block's of Stone lying every Where in the 
                            Wabash
                         River Which Renders the Navigation Difficult When low the Current is Very  Strong When it is high the bottom's on the North
                        Side of the River is more handsome generally then those on the South Side the Creek's
                        Which put in on the north Side afford more Water then those on the South Side—and the
                        Prairies are Dryer and more fertile on the North Side of the 
                            Wabash
                         then those on the South Side owing to the Country being Situated betwen two large
                        Rivers which Run peralel to each other Eel River head near to the head of
                        the River aboit heading up north of Fort wayn near to the Waters of the River St
                        Joseph's and Running in the Same Direction With the 
                            Wabash
                         untill it arrives Within a bout 7 miles of its Confluence with the wabash When its
                        course is Southwest or all-most South to the 
                            Wabash
                         at its mouth it is about Six Chains wide and affords nearly as much Water as the 
                            Wabash
                         Does above the Junction the water is much more Clear then the Water in the 
                            Wabash
                         it also Discharges a quantity of gravel into the 
                            Wabash
                        
                        Eel River or the Kenpacomaqua Sepe Which is the name by which the Indians
                        Call it which means the Sick River or River Sick—1 the general
                        course of this river is a Little South of West untill it arives within about Seven miles of the 
                            Wabash
                         When its course is more south then west or allmost south to Its mouth it appears to
                        have a number of Islands in it Some of them appears high and not overflowed at its mouth three
                        [there] are three Islands they are nearly of a Size and nearly in the Shape of three
                        Diamons—
                    It Discharges its water into the wabash at three places occasiond by the Islands Which ly in that
                        Situation The land on the West Side of this Stream appears handsome and Rich the Bottoms Wide
                        and the timber is of the best Kind Walnut Blew ash and oak the bottom of the River is a smooth
                        limestone Rock and about one mile above its mouth there is the most handsom fall I have ever
                        Seen the Water falls in one place five feet perpendicular from shore to shore it pitches Down in
                        a Smooth Sheet the Whole way over there are three more Steps or falls below of about two feet
                        each and there the Water is extreamly Rapid to the mouth passing the Islands five mile above its
                        mouth there is an Indian Village and a nother about 45 mile up it called the White Rackoons
                        town—
                    this River toward the head has its banks of gravel but from the great bend they are like the
                        bottom a limestone Rock—
                    there are three Rivers putting into the 
                            Wabash
                         on the South Side above the mouth of 
                            Tippecanoe
                         the first is the River St Johns2 the Second is the
                        Mississinaway and the third is the Sallemanie there is a large creek or small River puts in on
                        the South Side below the Mississinaway about six mile there is a Creek puts into the Sallemanie
                        Some Distence from its mouth Called by the Indians atchepong-gawawee seepe or Black Creek Which
                        has a valuable Salt Spring near to its mouth agreeable to the Indians account it is the best on
                        this side the ohio affording a larg quantity of very Salt water this is one Reason for the
                        Indians having made So large a Reserve there 
                     
                        1 The more common interpretation of the Indian name is Snake-fish
                                River.
                     
                        2 Not identified. Deer and Pipe creeks are the other two principal
                                streams that empty into the 
                                    Wabash
                                 from the south.
                  
                         expecting to take in this Salt Spring—and the
                        line not Running to that effect is the princepale cause of their Stopping the Surveyor from
                        Running the line on that Side the large Reserve—
                    the Mississinaway is a handsom Stream about two and ahalf or three Chain Wide it has no forks and
                        but few Creek of any Size putting into it there is one 30 miles from its mouth on the north side
                        Called 
                            Prairie
                         Creek Which is about 30 links Wide there are two on the South Side Which are about
                        the same size the Rest are Small3
               
                
            JOURNAL OF HENRY P. BENTON (Feb. 28-Apr. 30, 1820)
            
                    Deputy Surveyor of Public Lands in Indiana.
                    February 28th. 1820
                    Left home on monday 28th. Feb. 1820 for the woods and arrived at the Missinaway River on thursday
                        2nd. March where we went to work at a canoe in order to descend the River with our
                        provisions—finished and launched it on monday 6th. March.
                    Tuesday 7th.—Snowed nearly all day lightly—Snow 3 inches Wednesday 8th.
                        Remained in camp till Saturday 11th.—Nothing occurred worthy of
                        notice—Weather cool and some snow—
                    Sunday 12th.—This morning we proceeded down the Missinaway with two canoes loaded with
                        provisions—our progress was impeded considerably in the forenoon by saw[y]ers
                        &c which we had to cut away—Landed about 3.o.clock P.M and took shelter in an
                        evacuated Indian Wigwam—snow began to fall on landing—land
                        level—bottoms Extensive and very low banks—Distance about 18
                        miles—
                    Monday 13th.—Proceeded on our Route about 10.o.clock and Ran down about 20 miles where
                        one of our canoes Ran on a Rock and was soon filled with water—but we had the good
                        fortune to save her cargo — We proceeded no farther it being about 4.o.clock P.M
                        — it immediately began to Rain and continued till after midnight when it turned to
                        snow — the River Raised about 1 foot — Banks higher and timbered with oak
                        in places — the River more Rapid and Rocks more plenty — We were troubled
                        some by logs in the River in the forenoon —
                    Tuesday 14th. March 1820
                    Continued snowing till 12 o'clock at which time having dried our baggage we proceeded on
                        till nearly night — River very crooked. Rocky and full of Ripples —
                        distance about 15 miles — Snow about 5 inches — Weather cold
                    Wednesday 15th. — Started early and soon crossed the Missinaway trace —
                        found one of our Miami chiefs soon after who seemed to express a great deal of Joy on seeing us
                        — crossed the Fort 
                            Wayne
                         trace a little after noon — We Ran about 30 miles 
                     
                        3 The author apparently ended his sketch abruptly at this point
                                when he was forced to discontinue the survey because of the hostility of the Indians. In
                                addition to the sketch, the original manuscript has several drawings of the 
                                    Wabash
                                 River and its tributaries. These are not reproduced.
                  
                         the riving having Risen to a considerable hight
                        — Weather cold and dry — some very Elegant bottoms
                    Thursday 16th.—Proceeded about 15 miles to the Missinaway falls — Just
                        above the chute on the left side of the River is a blue
                    Thursday 16th. March 1820
                    cliff about 30 feet high perpendicular about 1/4 mile long — in the form of a Regular
                        curve — Just below is a high dry prarie opposite the falls — Landed and
                        encamped about 1/2 mile below the falls —
                    Friday 17th.—Started early this morning in pursuit of the East line of the Big
                        Reservation, which was discontinued — Travelled all day through swamps to no effect
                        — Encamped about 10 miles west of the line — Land 2nd. Rate
                    Saturday 18th.—Proceeded Eastwardly and struck the line about 10.o.clock 1 1/2 miles
                        from its end — continued it on to the Missinaway 5 1/2+ miles about 1 1/2 miles below
                        camp and about 1 mile where the Missinaway trace crosses the River — Land 2nd. Rate
                        — Some swampy
                    Sunday 19th.—Proceeded on with our line 8 miles Land first Rate — on the
                        North side of the Missinaway stands a Beach three 12 in diamr. marked
                    Sunday 19th. March 1820
                    with these words "The Big Indian Reserve" — one mile from the River
                        our line crossed a piece of ground where a battle was fought between the Indians and a party
                        under a Col. Campbell4 — about 1 mile East from the line is a
                        stream putting into the River well calculated for miles — Just below is another on
                        the south side
                    Monday 20th.—Proceeded on to the corner — missed the stake and 345 Returned back to our camp — Land first Rate — timbr
                        Beach Sugar B Walnut &c
                    Tuesday 21st.—Arrived in camp about 9 o.clock A.M — about 12 o clock I
                        commenced taking the meanders of the Missinaway Ran 6 1/4 miles — Passed the 18 mile
                        Town 4 miles from the East line of the Reservation
                    Wednesday 22nd. Proceeded on with the meanders 12 miles — Banks high some cliffs
                    Thursday 23rd. March 1820
                    arrived at the mouth of the Missinaway about 4 o.clock — distance 10 miles
                        — Land Rich the whole distance on the meanders — Timber B Walnut Sugar
                        Beach &c
                    
                  
                     4 In December, 1812, Lieutenant Colonel John B. Campbell led an
                            expedition of about six hundred men against the Indian towns on the Mississinewa River. The
                            Indians attacked the troops on the morning of December 18, but retreated after about an hour
                            of fighting. The site of the battle-ground is across the Mississinewa River from the present
                            town of 
                                Jalapa
                            , in 
                                Grant County
                            .
                  
                     5 Benton evidently refers to one of the stakes placed the previous
                            year. The Big Miami Reserve was approximately thirty-four miles square.
               
                    
                    Friday 24th.—Tarried with Francois Godfrey with whom we left our provision6 — Washed a Shirt &c
                    Saturday 25th.—Set off at 10 o.clock for F. Godfreys Reserve on the Salamana
                        — Francois packed our baggage — arrived at the 18 mile Town S.o.clock soon
                        after crossed the East line of the Big Reserve — encamped on Camp Creek —
                        Land Rich — Timber Sugar Beach, B. Walnut, poplar, Elm, B. ash &c
                        — Land Exceedingly Rich after crossing the line aforementioned
                    Sunday 26th.—Proceeded on our Route Rained all day hard — Encamped on the
                        Salamana at some Indian Wigwams aftr wading the River waist deep — distance 25 miles
                        — Land Rich, Some swampy — Timbr 1st. 5 miles Beach &c
                    Sunday 26th. March 1820
                    the Remaining part of the distance W Oak B. Oak Hickory ash &c — some prairies
                        — Land level — woods open — course E N.E —
                    Monday 27th.—Recrossed the River naval deep — arrived at the Le petit
                        prairie, Francois' Reservation 12 o.clock — distance 15 miles —
                        Land Rich Timber Sugar Beach &c first 7 miles then Oak Land — Some Elegant
                        bottoms along the River — Course Eastwardly
                    Tuesday 28th.—Commenced Surveying Francois' Reserve
                    Wednesday 29th—finished the survey Oak Land and praries principally — flat
                        streams level and deep — considerable dead water — some Beach sugar tree
                        &c on the North Side
                    Thursday 30th. Rectified a mistake made in the Survey this forenoon — Set off at
                        S.o.clock for the forks travelled 7 miles — Land Elegant and Rolling —
                        well watered — Timber Beach and Sugar — course N.W —
                    Friday 31st.—Travelled 25 miles
                    Friday 31st. March 1820
                    over land level and some swampy — Timber Beach Sugar ash &c —
                        Struck the 
                            Wabash
                         6 miles above the forks — course N.W —
                    Saturday April 1st. 1820
                    Arrived at the forks 10 o clock A.M and encamped — Good Bottoms along the River
                    Sunday 2nd.—Commenced surveying the Six mile Reserve below the forks — took
                        the meanders — Good bottoms
                    Monday 3rd.—Ran 9 miles crossed the Salamana — Land 1st Rate
                    Tuesday 4th.—Closed the survey — Land first Rate — Timber Beach
                        Sugar tree — Some W. oak
                    Wednesday 5th.—Arrived at the Missinaway Town 2 o. clock
                    Thursday 6th.—Proceeded down the 
                            Wabash
                         1 mile below the mouth of Eel River — heavy Rapids
                        near Eel River on some of which mills might be made to do business7
               
                    
                  
                     6 Francis Godfrey, a Miami chief, was one of the leaders of the
                            Indians at the Battle of Mississinewa but later lived in amity with the white people. He was
                            granted six sections of land on the Salamonie River by the Miami treaty of 1818. Charles J.
                            Kappler (ed.), Indian Affairs, Laws and Treaties (2 vols. 
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1904), II, 173.
                  
                     7
                            
                                Benton
                            's forecast came true after the town of 
                                Logansport
                             was platted on this site.
               
                    
                    Friday 7th.—Proceeded on down to a place called La;isle La,isle where we stopped to
                        lay off a Reserve made by Antoine
                    Friday 7th. April 1820
                    Bondi a frenchman8 — heavy Rapids in places — River
                        from 200 to 300 yards wide — Elegant Bottoms — distance 20 miles
                    Saturday 8th.—Laid off Bondis Reserve of 2 sections — Land 1st Rate
                        — Timber W. Oak, B. Walnut Beach Sugar &c
                    Sunday 9th.—Set off early for the mouth of Tippacanoe and arrived there 2 o clock P.M
                        — at 20 [or 10?] miles we left a very Beautiful Prarie on our Right — Land
                        Exceedingly Rich and prospect delightful — distance 20 miles
                    Monday 10th.—This morning Mr. Burnett the man for whom we intended laying off a
                        Reserve at the mouth of Tippacanoe9 being gone up the 
                            Wabash
                         to meet us, having heard of our coming, we went to take a run of the ground on
                        which the memorable battle of Tippacanoe was fought 1811 in company with an [e]lderly Indian, a
                        principal actor in the tragedy, and his son. We travelled about 3/4ths. of a mile from the River
                        where the old Town was situated and where we had encamped the preseding night being about 1 1/2
                        miles below the mouth of Tippacanoe.
                    Monday 10th. April 1820
                    when we arrived at the fatal spot, being a high point of Land having between it and the 
                            Wabash
                         an Extensive 
                            Prairie
                         and on its north side a deep Ravine where the american army procured water
                        — On the v[e]rge of the hill facing the prairie was a Rampart or Breastwork of Logs
                        laid up which had been almost demolished by fire. — Our Indian guide showed us a
                        stump behind which he fought untill his Retreat which stump was marked by Bullits in many places
                        — he gave us to understand that showers of Bullets had pierced his Blanket without
                        Receiving any injury and seemed to spare no pains to Relate to us the particulars of the action
                        — We understood by him that the Kickapoos and Shawnees made their attack in front
                        while the Pota-watamies had ascended the hill above and attacked the left flank. —
                        The ground was strewed with the Bleached Bones of the savages together with those of the horses,
                        and a considerable quanity of Broken camp Kettles, waggon Rigging, &c and on seeing the
                        pits into which the americans killed were thrown I was inspired with sensations too strong for
                        utterance and could not forbear shedding a tear to the memory of the departed heroes—
                    
                  
                     8 Two sections were reserved at "l'Esle a
                            l'aille" for the children of Antoine Bondie by the Miami treaty of 1818.
                            The land is in the present 
                                Carroll County
                            , township 25, north, range 2 west. Bondie, a French trader, had married a Miami
                            woman. Field Notes North of the Base Line and West of the Second Meridian, Indiana, XIII,
                            236–37; Bert J. Griswold, Pictorial History of Fort 
                                    Wayne
                                , Indiana … (
                                Chicago
                            , 1917), 201.
                  
                     9 James, John, Isaac, Jacob, Abraham, Rebecca, and Nancy Burnett,
                            nephews and nieces of the Potawatomi Chief Topenebee, were granted six sections at the mouth
                            of the 
                                Tippecanoe
                             River and five sections at the mouth of Flint River by the Potawatomi treaty of
                            1818. Kappler (ed.), Laws and Treaties, II, 169.
               
                    
                    Monday 10th. April 1820
                    On Returning to our camp we found the Indians had become troublesome from their having drunk too
                        freely of whiskey for which Reason we put off about 10 o clock and floated down to the house of
                        Mr. Burnett, where after having cooked and eaten our dinner, an Indian came to us and gave us
                        information of a conspiracy made by the Indian who conducted us to the Battle-ground and a
                        number of others to massacre us (notwithstanding he seemed so friendly in the fore part of the
                        day) for no other cause than that he had been shot by an american sometime in the summer of 1819
                        [?] which shot had broken his leg and passed through into his hip as he was in a sitting posture
                        being drunk; of which circumstance he had given us to understand the preceding Evening
                        — The manner in which they were to effect their purpose (said our informant) was to
                        come to us with seeming friendship and fall upon us with their Tomahawks — We
                        immediately put our provisions into the care of Mr. Burnett's store keeper and Resolved
                        on staying with him — some little time after unl[o]ading our canoes an Indian came to
                        the Store who seemed to express a great degree
                    Monday 10th. April 1820
                    of madness toward us, and immediately began to brandish his finger about his head with most
                        furious looks while talking to the Frenchman Mr. Burnett's clerk meaning to show I
                        suppose how in a few minutes they would proceed with us — We immediately left the
                        store for our canoes which we had no sooner Reached than looking behind us we discovered a small
                        party of Indians making towards us, some on horseback — We immediately sprang aboard
                        and pushed for the opposite shore, while those Indians on horseback made an attempt to ford the
                        River seeing which we let our Canoes float down — They proceeded as far as they could
                        without swimming and abandoned the progect — We floated down the River about 1/4th.
                        mile, and at night Returned having no Blankets with us and the weather being blustering
                        — We discovered the Indians at the Store and asked the Frenchman if we could Land, he
                        told us to Run. — We then proceeded down the River about 3/4 of a mile to an Island
                        on which we landed and to which we gave the name of Refuge Island — We lay in our
                        Canoes till about 10 o clock, then went on to the Island and struck up
                    Monday 10th. April 1820
                    a small fire by which we lay till morning when we Returned to the house of Mr. Burnett and
                        finding the Indians dispersed loaded our Canoes and proceeded down the River 5 miles where we
                        stopped and took breakfast — Here we intended staying till the next day to await the
                        Return of Mr. Burnett. —
                    The Situation of the Land about the mouth of Tippacanoe is very handsome, there being a Prarie on
                        the Bottom the North side of the 
                            Wabash
                         extending from the mouth of Tippacanoe down about 4 or 5 miles — On the
                        hill Back is a 
                            Prairie
                         extending back nearly as far as the eye can Reach — near the verge of
                        the hill is a Row of ancient mounds 8 or 10 in number — This is up near the
                        Tippacanoe — the  Lands adjacent are oak plains
                        — Opposite the house of Mr. Burnett on the South side of the 
                            Wabash
                         is another very extensive 
                            Prairie
                         but those Prairies lying next the River are subject to inundation Wednesday 12th.
                        Mr. Burnett having Returned we loaded our canoes and poled back to his house and left our
                        provisions —
                    Wednesday 12th. April 1820
                    Towards Evening Mr. A—10 had a talk with 2 Potawatomie Chiefs and a number of warriors
                        who consented to his surveying the Reserves
                    Thursday 13th.—Commenced laying off Mr. Burnetts 6 Sections at the mouth of 
                            Tippecanoe
                        
               
                    Friday 14th.—continued Surveying Mr. Burnett's — Commenced Raining
                        3 o clock —
                    Saturday 15th.—Closed the Survey in the morning — Soon after Mr. A
                        — set off for an Indian Town up the 
                            Wabash
                         where the Indians had a stray horse which Mr. A— Expected to be his, and
                        which he went after — I made a calculation of the survey and found the contents 178
                        acres too small — Washed a shirt in the afternoon
                    Sunday 16th. Remained at Mr. Burnett's added the 178 acres — N —
                        Returned 3 o. clock —
                    Monday 17th.—Laid off a Reserve on the River Pouextipecheaux at place formerly called
                        Villagae Du. Puent 1 mile from the 
                            Wabash
                         on the south side, which Reserve belongs to the two Eldest children of Peter
                        Langlois containing two Sections11 — Land Exceedingly Rich
                        — Oak plains and Prarie
                    Tuesday 18th.—Remained at Mr. Burnetts In the Evening the Indians had a dance
                    Wednesy. 19th. Proceeded down 20 miles to a large Rattlesnake Den which is in a Rock on the Right
                        Bank of the River very high — It is said that in summer they are frequently seen
                        poking their heads out of the Rocks — one perfectly white — here we met
                        Mr. Burnett & Mr. Rob—very large and Extensive Praries on the South Side of
                        the 
                            Wabash
                        .
                    Thursday 20th.—Proceeded South and travelled 10 miles through heavenly land and came
                        to the Garden of Eden where we laid off a section of land for the youngest child of Peter
                            Langlois12 — A large Town built by the Swawnese is situated
                        within the Reserve—They evacuated it last summer and went and Joined the Creek nation
                        by
                    Thursday 20th. April 1820
                    Reason they said of the americans being too nigh, but it is supposed that they were more afraid
                        of the Potawatomies—We crossed a large 
                            Prairie
                         which we were informed extended S E as far as White River
                        Friday 21st.—Proceeded down to the Kickapoo Town where we stopped —Just
                        below the Town comes in a large Creek—Distance 10 miles—
                    
                  
                     10 Joseph S. Allen.
                  
                     11 This reserve was in township 23 north, range 4 west in what is now 
                                Tippecanoe
                             County. Field Notes, XV, 29.
                  
                     12 The reserve was in township 21 north, range 6 west, 
                                Tippecanoe
                             County. Field notes, XVI, 182.
               
                    
                    We commenced Surveying Mr. Burnett's 2nd. Reserve—Meandered 2
                        miles—Rained during the Afternoon
                    Saturday 22nd.—Early this morning Mr. Burnett went down the River 3 miles to seek out
                        a more eligible spot to lay off his Reserve—while he was gone a Kickapoo Chief came
                        to us & forbade us surveying alleging that the whole tract of land comprehended between
                        the 
                            Vermillion
                         River and Tippacanoe belong to the Kickapoos—1/4th. mile from the mouth
                        of S[pring?] creek on its west bank is a quarry of stone of superior quality for grindstones
                        &c &c—
                    Saturday 22nd. April 1820
                    Mr. Burnett having Returned we concluded it was not safe to survey his Reservation, and took our
                        leave of him being 12.o.clock and set off for Fort Harrison and Ran 15 miles, and slept on the
                        most handsome prarie I had ever seen — here we found another grindstone quarry
                        superior to that of Pine River. —
                    Sunday 23rd. Ran about 25 miles — passed the mouth of 
                            Vermillion
                         11 o clock Distance 10 miles — River considerable crooked and from 2 to
                        300 yards in width — Just below the mouth of vermillion we came to a coal mine where
                        the inhabitants of 
                            Vincennes
                         had dug large quantities — We found iron ore sulphur salt petre
                        &c Monday 24th.—Ran down 12 miles and came to a small Town named Clinton
                        situated on the West Bank of
                    Monday 24th. April 1820
                    the River where we tarried 3 hours drinking Buttermilk & whiskey — We passed
                        the mouth of Raccoon creek Early in the morning 1 1/2 miles dist — arrived at Fort
                        Harrison 4.o.clock which we found on the decline — A considerable number of small Log
                        houses is built near the Fort — back from the Town is a very large Extensive Prarie
                        the most of which under good cultivation — whole Dist. today 28 miles
                    Tuesday 25th.—After having made the necessary preparations about 10.o.clock we set off
                        for home — travelled Eastwardly 17 miles — Land Rich 10 miles the Rest of
                        the way thin and clayy but well timbered with W. Oak &c — Encamped in an
                        Indian Wigwam — 10.o.clock P.M we had a severe thunder storm — Passed our
                        house 12 M
                    Wedy. 26th.—Proceeded on to Eel River
                  13 12
                        miles Land thin as before nearly to the River — Some few inhabitants here
                        — Crossed the River and travelled S E over a very hilly country — Land
                        Rich well timbered and well watered
                    Wedny. 26th. April 1820
                    Travelled 15 miles from Eel River and Encamped for the night — We
                        were informed that there were two perpendicular falls on Mill creek14 a
                        considerable Branch of Eel River, one of 22 feet and the other 8
                        — Timber Beach Sugar W Oak &c &c 
                     
                        13 Not to be confused with the Eel River
                                mentioned above. The one mentioned here is a branch of the West Fork of White
                                    River. The surveying party cut across the state after leaving Fort
                                Harrison.
                     
                        14 Cataract Falls, near 
                                    Spencer
                                .
                  
                         Thury. 27th. Travelled 1 mile and came to a considerable
                        settlement through which we passed and came to the bottoms of White River 6
                        miles — struck the River 12 miles 100 yards wide Arrived at Lamb's Crossing
                        who was very hospitable 23 miles — Crossed and travelled 2 miles up the River to a
                        house of Mr. Foggerson where we encamped for the night — Bottoms along the River very
                        Extensive subject to inundation — soil clayy — timber Beach, Sugar,
                        Hackbury &c &c — Good water — whole distance 25 miles
                    Friday 28th.—Proceeded on up the River arrived a Capt. Whetzal's15 10.o.clock where we put up — distance 10 miles —
                        passed some houses — Land as before also timber — good water —
                        While at Capt. Whetzal's we were informed that the body of a person nearly decayed was
                        discovered in an obscure place near the Bluffs
                    Friday 28th. April 1820
                    on White River — It is supposed that it was a man from the
                        Eastern States having on mixed colour pantaloons and vest being the only garments found and very
                        Rotten murd[er]ed by a certain Indian who has been seen to have a number of Bank notes a horse
                        surtout coat Watch &c &c and who stated he had got his money for Raccoon fur
                    Satuy. 29th.—Set off for Somersat16 in company with Mr. Doyle who
                        was taken sick with a violent cholic about noon 12 miles distant from Capt. Whetzal's
                        — Arrived at Mr. Morgan's at night Distance 20 miles — Land level
                        and very swampy after leaving White River 13 miles — Timber
                        Beach Sugar &c — Mr. Morgan lives on sugar Creek a stream 20 yards wide and
                        is a Branch of the driftwood fork of White River
                  17
               
                    Sunday 30th.—Mr. Doyle not being able to travel I left him with Mr. Morgan and
                        proceeded — Crossed Blue River 12 o clock 12 miles where Mr.
                        Wilson keeps an Entertainment18 — travelled 15 miles further and
                        coming to an old Wigwam and being lame I encamped for the night
                    Sunday 29th. [30th] April 1820
                    Land more uneven well watered Timber Beach Sugar &c Monday 30th.
                        [1st]—Travelled 3 miles to flat Rock where I took 
                     
                        15 Jacob Whetzel was living near the present town of Waverly in 
                                    Morgan County
                                . In 1818 he had cut a trace through the woods from his home in 
                                    Franklin County
                                 to this site. This route, known as Whetzel's trace, was much used
                                by early travelers and settlers. Benton followed it the remainder of his journey. George
                                R. Wilson, Early Indiana Trails and Surveys (Indiana Historical
                                Society Publications, Vol. VI, 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 1919), 399–401.
                     
                        16
                                
                                    Somerset
                                , platted in 1816, now adjoins the town of Laurel in 
                                    Franklin County
                                .
                     
                        17 Probably William F. Morgan, an early resident of Sugar Creek
                                Township, 
                                    Shelby
                                 County.
                     
                        18 James Wilson moved his family here at the crossing of
                                Whetzel's trade and Blue River in 1819. He had formerly
                                lived at 
                                    Fairfield
                                 in 
                                    Franklin County
                                . History of 
                                        Shelby
                                     County, Indiana … (Brant & Fuller, 
                                    Chicago
                                , 1887), 301.
                  
                         Breakfast at Mr. Thornburys19
                        — Arrived at 
                            Somerset
                         4 o. clock P.M — distance 23 miles — and considerably broken
                        on approaching 
                            Somerset
                         — good Water and Timber — Arrived at Uncle Josephs 
                            Benton
                        's where I put up for the night—
                
            
               
                  19 Richard Thornberry established his home at the point where
                        Whetzel's trace crossed Big Flat Rock Creek, in the present 
                            Rush County
                        . Ibid., 301.
            
         
         
         
            Reviews and Notices
            
               Anthony Wayne: Trouble Shooter of the American Revolution. By Harry Emerson
                    Wildes. (
                        New York
                    : Harcourt, Brace & Company, 1941. Pp. 514, xii. Frontis. $3.75.)
            Mr. Wildes has written, to use his own modest words, "the first [life of 
                        Wayne
                    ] to put the warrior-statesman in his proper social, economic, political, and military
                    setting" (p. vii). In so doing, he has utilized an impressive amount of material,
                    principally from manuscript sources, and has woven it into a narrative which affords usually
                    interesting and sometimes absorbing reading. Although the biographer's ambitious claim
                    concerning the completeness of the setting is scarcely borne out by the book, which is often weak on
                    background material, yet certain aspects of the confused political and social scene of Revolutionary
                    America as well as a number of military episodes are well and clearly described.
            The greatest merit of the biography is its completely impartial attitude towards its subject.
                    Unwarranted calumnies which have clustered about Wayne's reputation are refuted; but there
                    is no attempt to gloss over his objectionable qualities. Gradually, as chapter succeeds chapter,
                    Anthony Wayne emerges in clear delineation: brave, energetic, resourceful, persevering, essentially
                    shallow, undemocratic, ambitious, vain, touchy, impatient, harsh, inconsiderate, frequently though
                    not invariably intolerant, grasping—sometimes dishonest, not always truthful. Given the
                    sharpness of this portrait, one can but wonder at the subtitle which Mr. Wildes has seen fit to
                    choose: "Trouble shooter of the American Revolution." "Trouble
                    maker" would be more apt. Of all the contentious, headstrong, morbidly proud officers of
                    the Revolutionary Army, none but Sullivan could outdo Wayne in the picking of quarrels or the making
                    of enemies. His military career is strewn with rivalries, with broken friendships, with
                    recriminations. The author himself declares (p. 200): "In winter quarters Wayne was a heavy
                    liability. Trouble always boiled about him."
            But there are more serious things to quarrel with in Mr. Wildes' book than a meaningless
                    subtitle. In view of the general soundness of the work, it is doubly deplorable that the author all
                    too often interlards his factual material with fictional 
                    incidents or descriptions. There is no way of checking on these lapses, for the book contains no
                    footnotes and no documentation of specific statements, all references to sources being lumped
                    together at the end by chapters. For the most part, one can recognize the inventions easily, as when
                    the author describes in great detail a minor incident which no one would conceivably have recorded,
                    even if it had happened (pp. 39, 104–5), or lays bare his hero's secret feelings
                    as he watched his loved one (p. 25). Occasionally, however, this habit of imagination leads to
                    direct falsification on matters concerning which a reader might easily be deceived. The most glaring
                    instance of this is in the account of the Battle of Monmouth. After describing the background of the
                    battle in a manner both incomplete and inaccurate, the author records, with no warning to the reader
                    and with dramatic detail, a purely fictitious conversation between Lee and Wayne on the battle-field
                    (pp. 163–4). As a matter of fact, there exists an official report from Wayne to 
                        Washington
                     of June 30, 1778, explicitly declaring that at no time on the day of the battle did he
                    and Lee confer personally: all their communication was by messenger.
            Such a breach of historical scholarship shocks the reader. Just how much of the book can be trusted?
                    To judge from a casual reading, the interesting and detailed story of Wayne's campaign in
                    the Northwest Territory, for instance, is free of such falsification; but can we be sure? Mr. Wildes
                    had better make up his mind whether he is going to write straight biography, which he can do
                    reasonably well, or historical fiction, and stick to his choice.
            One claim which the author makes is open to question. In the preface he declares: "In
                    preparing this book, I have visited every place that Wayne touched." It is very doubtful
                    that Mr. Wildes has done this in the case of 
                        Nova Scotia
                    , the scene of the second chapter. Indeed, it is unlikely that he has even bothered to
                    look at a map of it. If he had, he could scarcely have made the gross error of referring to the
                    territory three times (pp. 17, 18, 27) as an "island." He would not have written
                    about the "Petitcoodia River" instead of the Petitcodiac, or "St.
                    John's River," instead of the St. John. He would not have declared that colonists
                    along the Petitcodiac "would have access to the sea only by a long sail northward around
                    Cape Breton" (p. 19), for he would have noted the 
                    existence of the Bay of Fundy, or, for any settlers living on the northern shore of 
                        New Brunswick
                    , of the Strait of Canso. Finally, he would not have shared, as he apparently does,
                    "Wayne's amazement" (p. 19) that grants of land on the St. John and the
                    Petitcodiac were not between 
                        Halifax
                     and Cape Sable. This chapter, characteristic of the almost contemptuous lack of
                    interest in things Canadian which is all too common in this country, will do nothing to help our
                    Good Neighbor Policy so far as the people of the Maritime Provinces are concerned. The publishers
                    are to be condemned for letting such a flagrantly sloppy piece of research, which any schoolboy
                    could have corrected, mar a volume which has many points to recommend it.
            C. Leonard Lundin Indiana University
         
         
            
               The Trail of Death: Letters of Benjamin Marie Petit. By Irving McKee. (Indiana
                    Historical Society Publications, volume 14, number 1, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1941. Pp. 141. $.75.)
            The removal of the Potawatomi Indians from their tribal land in Northern Indiana in 1838 is the main
                    theme, which lends coherence to Mr. McKee's interesting collection of the letters of Father
                    Benjamin Marie Petit, young French priest serving as a missionary to these Indians from October,
                    1837, through November, 1838. Petit realized the broad implications of the problem of Indian
                    removal; he saw that the pressure of civilization was crushing the Indians—and his
                    sympathy, naturally, was for the Indians, whom he deemed more gentle than the savage and uncouth
                    white backwoodsmen. Petit's letters, twenty-one in number, vividly describe the forcible
                    expulsion of the Yellow River Potawatomi from Indiana in the late summer months of 1838. The letters
                    cover the period from April, 1837 (shortly before his departure for America) to January, 1839 (less
                    than a month before his untimely death): eleven are to Bishop Bruté, his ecclesiastical
                    superior, seven are to his family in 
                        France
                    , and of those remaining, five are written to American officials concerned in the
                    removal of this particular Potawatomi band. The Appendix contains the short daily Journal of Father
                    Petit and the Baptismal Register kept by him.
            The significance of these letters is ably summarized by Mr. McKee in this extract from his Preface:
                        
                    
                        The Petit letters, for the most part translated and published for the first time, illuminate
                            this phase of pioneer times with almost brutal clarity. The devoted young priest, seeking
                            with all his waning strength to defend an immense, but moribund, cause; the hapless
                            Potawatomi, caught between an advancing tide and a menacing wilderness; the untiring and
                            unscrupulous government agents, harried by the incoming white men—all these meet
                            here in brief but photographed conflict. The inevitable defeat, a tragedy in the classic
                            sense, more than justifies the title given it—The Trail of Death.
                    
            
            The value of these documents is increased by a brief but scholarly introduction containing
                    information necessary to a proper understanding of the historical setting of the Yellow River
                    mission, the removal of the Potawatomi, and the missionary activities of Father Petit; a very brief
                    biographical sketch of Petit is also given. He was born in 1811 at Rennes, 
                        France
                    , the native town of Bishop Bruté, fifth Bishop of the Diocese of 
                        Vincennes
                    ; he studied law and was an advocate until 1835, when he renounced the law and entered a
                    seminary to study for the priesthood—probably due to the influence of Bishop
                    Bruté. In 1836 Petit came to America, where he concluded his clerical training. His
                    ordination as priest was perhaps hastened by the death of the previous priest of the Potawatomi, so
                    that he was ordained in October, 1837, and began his mission among the Yellow River Potawatomi a
                    month later.
            It is to be regretted that Petit did not write more letters during his brief fifteen months as
                    missionary, for his writing revealed him to be a sincere and devout young priest, dedicated through
                    religious idealism to the rigorous life and many privations which it has ever been the lot of the
                    missionary to bear. Yet his humanness is revealed by little foibles such as his complaining of the
                    decrepitness of his horse, and his reiterating to his Bishop the need of securing a better steed.
                    The human problems arising in religious work are often mentioned; interesting incidents about his
                    Indian parishioners are treated in his letters to his superior, and these letters bring out social
                    aspects of Potawatomi life as Father Petit saw it.
            Mr. McKee, of the faculty of Culver Military Institute, has done a worth while task in collating and
                    editing the scattered manuscript material relating to Father Petit, one of the lesser known
                    self-sacrificing missionary priests in Indiana. This volume will be received with interest by all
                         persons interested in Indiana history, Catholic missionary
                    work, or the removal of the Potawatomi by the government; the Indiana Historical Society is to be
                    commended for having brought out another worth while publication in its series.
            Oscar S. Dooley
         
         
            
               Half That Glory. By Stanley E. Gray. (The Macmillan Co., 
                        New York
                    , 1941. Pp. 468. $2.50.)
            This is a historical novel of the European side of the War for American Independence. Christopher
                    Keene, sensitive son of a 
                        Virginia
                     planter on the make, had to discover his own life, and in the doing found it was
                    interwoven with that of 
                        Virginia
                    , Holland, 
                  England, France
                and finally the 
                        United States
                    . Among the historical characters the irrepressible Beaumarchais naturally plays the
                    main lead, but Arthur Lee, Dean, Franklin and others play important parts. Particularly well done is
                    the portrayal of British opinion on the struggle, largely through the person of Edmund Lanham,
                    merchant prince. Also the handicaps, jealousies, and general inadequacies under which the American
                    representatives and agents in Europe operated. With no funds, often pulling at cross purposes, not
                    even sure who was to be trusted among their own countrymen, and with British secret agents firmly
                    ensconced in the staffs of the American representatives—the miracle of final success
                    becomes no less a miracle.
            As would be expected of a historian at home among the documents on both sides of the Atlantic the
                    history is authentic; wherever the author exercises the privilege of literary deviation the fact is
                    indicated in the historical note at the end. The background of 
                        London
                    , 
                        Amsterdam
                    , 
                        Paris
                    ; of towns, ships, vehicles, politics, and people, must have been laid both consciously
                    and unconsciously, during years of study. The subsidiary characters are adequate, description at
                    times brilliant, the love interest plausible, and the story "reads." And it is a
                    story which should be read, as germane to our life today as ever. The book contains a brief
                    bibliography and a historical note.
            Most historians read and criticize historical novels, many have the materials for one or more, but
                    few write them. Which of course accounts for the all too frequent mayhem committed by writers and
                    pictures on our history. Historians  can dig; writers can write;
                    now and then one can do both.
            Stanley Gray, the author, is an Indianian (Shortridge High School, AB 
                        Wabash
                     College, 1925; AM Indiana University, 1928, where he was instructor in history,
                    1928–29; 
                        Harvard
                    , traveling fellow in 
                        England
                    , etc.) who is now a member of the history faculty at the 
                        United States
                     Naval Academy. This is a first novel—of many, let us hope.
            R. C. Buley Indiana University
         
         
            Olive I. Downing, Indiana's Poet of the Wildwood. (
                        Marion
                    , Indiana, c. 1941, pp. xiii, 161).
            This is a little book about one of Indiana's literary figures, Sarah T. Bolton. It contains
                    a simple and uncritical tale of the life of the poet together with many of her poems. It is
                    appropriate that it should appear, for the story and the poetry are worthy of preservation. The
                    writings of this gentle lady made a contribution to the development of Indiana and to the state of
                    mind that is characteristic of Hoosiers. Her poetry contains frequent references to the homely
                    virtues, such as are expressed in the poem "Paddle Your Own Canoe," of which the
                    following is the first stanza: 
                        Voyager upon life's sea,
                        To yourself be true.
                        And where'er your lot may be,
                        Paddle your own canoe.
                        Never, though the winds may rave,
                        Falter nor look back
                        But upon the darkest wave
                        Leave a shining track.
                    
            
            Though better known for this poem, it may be that such snatches as the following, each from different
                    poems entitled "Indiana," have been more significant. 
                        Home of my heart, thy shining sand,
                        Thy forests and thy streams,
                        Are beautiful as fairyland
                        Displayed in fancy's dreams.
                        Home of a thousand happy hearts
                        Gem of the far Wild West
                        Ere long thy sciences and arts
                        Will gild the Union's crest.
                        
                        Though many laud Italia's clime,
                        And call Helvetia's land sublime,
                        Tell Gallia's praise in prose and rhyme,
                        And worship old Hispania;
                        The winds of heaven never fanned,
                        The circling sunlight never spanned
                        The borders of a better land
                        Than our own Indiana.
                    
            
         
         
            Ollinger Crenshaw, associate professor of history at 
                        Washington
                     and Lee University, has published in the American Historical Review,
                    October, 1941, an article entitled "The Knights of the Golden Circle." It is an
                    excellent presentation of the southern phases of that movement and will be read with profit by those
                    who are interested in the Knights north of the 
                        Ohio
                     River. It does not solve, however, the relations between the latter and the earlier and
                    southern activity of the order. If Professor Crenshaw anticipates further publication along this
                    line such will be eagerly awaited by those interested in Indiana History.
            In the same issue of the American Historical Review appeared an article submitted
                    by Dr. Joseph Shafer shortly before his death in which he raised considerable doubt about the
                    generally accepted ideas that the German element of the population of the states of the Old
                    Northwest was a decisive influence in the election of Abraham Lincoln in 1860.
            Two other books of interest to readers of the Indiana Magazine of History have been
                    received. Their reviews have been omitted for reasons of space, but will be included in the next
                    issue. They are: Methodism and the Frontier, Indiana Proving Ground, by Elizabeth
                    K. Nottingham (
                        Columbia
                     University Press, 
                        New York
                    , 1941); and The Passing of the Frontier, 1825–1850, Volume
                    III of The History of the State of 
                            Ohio
                        , by Francis P. Weisenburger (
                        Ohio
                     State Archaeological and Historical Society, 
                        Columbus
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , 1941).
         
         
         
            Editor's Page
            The present issue of the Indiana Magazine of History contains a larger number of
                    pages devoted to articles than the last issue. It is believed that the character of the articles
                    justifies this procedure, the first one being particularly timely.
            This occasion, however, may be taken to call attention to two opportunities for the readers of the
                        Magazine to help in keeping it a publication worthy of their interest and to
                    render a service to those interested in the history of the state and nation. In the first place,
                    much documentary material of importance to Indiana's history remains in private hands,
                    unpublished, and unavailable to historians and historical students. Suitable material may be
                    published in the documentary section of the Magazine. If you have letters,
                    diaries, or other written sources of our history, will you not send them in for publication? The
                    original will be returned safely to the possessor. In the second place, the genealogical portion of
                    the Magazine requires support if it is to be helpful. The editor will not have
                    time to go out and find material but he is anxious to publish genealogical material if it is sent to
                    him. Attention is directed to the contribution by Miss Florence Crawford of the "Gilman
                    Family History" and to "Genealogical and Historical Material in the Emeline
                    Fairbanks Memorial Library." No doubt such contributions can be made by others.
         
         
         
            LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS
            Cedric C. Cummins is an instructor in history in the Extension Division of Indiana University and is
                    stationed at 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            David H. Dickason is an instructor at Indiana University in the Department of English.
            Milford M. Miller is an attorney of 
                        Evansville
                    , Indiana, and a member of the History Department of the Society of Fine Arts and
                    History of that city. His article is a revision of a paper read before that society.
            Dorothy Riker is with the Indiana Historical Bureau, Indiana State Library.
            Christopher B. Coleman is the Secretary of the Indiana Historical Society and Director of the Indiana
                    State Library.
            C. Leonard Lundin is an instructor at Indiana University in the Department of History.
            Oscar S. Dooley is a graduate student in history at Indiana University.
            R. C. Buley is an associate professor in the Department of History, Indiana University.
         
         
         
            Genealogical Section
            GILMAN FAMILY HISTORY
            by PANSY MODESITT GLEASON
            Submitted by
            FLORENCE CRAWFORD
            The first of the family in America was Edward Gilman and his wife, Mary, who with their children left Gravesend, 
                        England
                    , April 26, 1638, in the "Diligent" of Ipswich. They landed in America
                    at 
                        Boston
                    , August 10, 1638. Their children were Mary, Edward, Sarah, Lydia, John, Moses, and
                    Jeremiah.
            
               John (the Hon. John) s. of Edward, b. 1624, d. 1709; settled in Hingham, 
                        Massachusetts
                    , the Exeter, 
                        New Hampshire
                    , records indicate that he was living there in 1650, entered lumber business, elected a
                    Selectman, when 
                        New Hampshire
                     was separated from 
                        Massachusetts
                     in 1680 he was appointed a Councillor, which office he held three years, elected a
                    member of House of Representatives and in 1693 was Speaker; wife was the dau. of an English
                    merchant; they had sixteen children.
            
               Nicholas (Col. Nicholas), s, of John, b. 1672, d. 1741, m. Sarah Clark (dau. of
                    Nathaniel and Elizabeth Clark of Newbury, 
                        Massachusetts
                    ), two sons were mentioned: Daniel1 and Nicholas (Reverend
                    Nicholas).
            
               Nicholas (Reverend Nicholas), s. of Colonel Nicholas, b. 1707, d. 1748, m. 1730,
                    Mary Thing (b. 1713, d. 1789, dau. of 
                        Bartholomew
                    
               2 and Sarah 
                        Kent
                     Thing), attended Latin School at age of eight at Newbury, 
                        Massachusetts
                    , was graduated from 
                        Harvard
                     at age of 17 in 1724, began to preach at Kingston, 
                        New Hampshire
                    , October 30, 1727, was ordained at Durham, 
                        New Hampshire
                    , March 3, 1742.
            
               Joseph, s. of Reverend Nicholas, b. May 5, 1738, in Exeter, 
                        New Hampshire
                    , d. May 14, 1806, at Marietta, 
                        Ohio
                    , m. (1) Jane Taylor (d. 1760), (2) Rebecca Ives (b. June 23, 1745, d. May 20, 1823,
                        
                  
                     1 Daniel, s. of Colonel Nicholas, b. 1702, d. 1780, m. (1) Mary Lord.
                            (2) Abigal Sayer; had two sons: Nicholas and John. Nicholas, s. of Daniel, b. 1731, d. 1783,
                            m. Ann Taylor; children included John Taylor, Nicholas, and Nathaniel. John Taylor, s. of
                            Nicholas, b. December 19, 1753, d. September 1, 1828, served in provincial army, delegate
                            from 
                                New Hampshire
                             in the convention at 
                                Hartford
                             called to take measures for the defense of the country, member of Continental
                            Congress, 1782–1783, state treasurer, 1791, governor, 1794–1805,
                            1813–1816, member of state legislature, 1810, 1811. Nicholas, s. of Nicholas, b.
                            August 3, 1755, d. May 2, 1814, served as adjutant in Colonel Scammell's regiment
                            during the Revolution, was a member of 
                                Washington
                            's military family, took account of prisoners surrendered by Lord
                            Cornwallis at Yorktown, member of 
                                Philadelphia
                            convention that framed the Constitution of the 
                                United States
                            , member of Congress, 1786–1797, presidential elector, 1793 and 1797, 
                                United States
                             Senator, 1805–1814.
                  
                     2
                            
                                Bartholomew
                             was the s. of Jonathan and Mary Gilman Thing, who had six children, one of whom
                            was Tristam, an early and noted minister of 
                                Maine
                            .
               
                     m. September 22, 1763; dau. of Benjamin and Elizabeth (Hale)
                    Ives of Beverly, 
                        Massachusetts
                    ); appointed treasurer of Rockingham County, 
                        New Hampshire
                    , justice of the peace, 1779, senator, 1785, member of Governor's Council in
                    1787; in 1788 went with wife and one son to Marietta, 
                        Ohio
                    , where he became one of the judges of the Northwest Territory.
            
               Benjamin Ives, s. of Joseph b. July 29, 1766, in Exeter, 
                        New Hampshire
                    , d. October 13, 1833, in Alton, 
                        Illinois
                    , while on a visit to a son, m. February, 1790, at 
                        Plymouth
                    , 
                        Massachusetts
                    , Hannah Robbins (dau. of the Reverend Chandler Robbins3), they had
                    nine children, among whom were Ichabod W., Chandler Robbins,4 Winthrop
                        Sargent,5 and one daughter who married Samuel Long; came with his parents to
                    Marietta, 
                        Ohio
                    , in 1788; in 1824 came to 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Indiana, and established a pork-packing business, building the first 
                  
                     3 Chandler Robbins, b. at Branford, 
                                Connecticut
                            , August 24, 1738, d. at 
                                Plymouth
                            , 
                                Massachusetts
                            , June 30, 1799, was graduated from Yale, 1756, taught in Indian Schools at 
                                Lebanon
                            , studied theology, was ordained pastor of Congregational Church in 
                                Plymouth
                            , 
                                Massachusetts
                            , was awarded D. D. degree by Dartmouth College in 1792 and by University of
                            Edinburgh in 1793, published reply to John Cotton's Essays on Baptism and other
                            books. His father Philemon was the pastor of the church at Branford, 
                                Connecticut
                            , 1732–1781. An uncle of Chandler Robbins, Ammi Ruhamah Robbins, was
                            a graduate of Yale, the pastor of the Congregational Church at Norfolk, 
                                Connecticut
                            , who joined General Philip Schuyler's brigade at 
                                Albany
                            , 
                                New York
                            , as chaplain. Thomas Robbins, s. of Ammi Ruhamah, was also a clergyman, and a
                            founder of the 
                                Connecticut
                             Historical Society to which he gave his private library valued at
                            $10,000, and containing a pine chest that was brought over on the Mayflower, on
                            the lid of which the passengers signed their compact. Chandler Robbins, a grandson of
                            Chandler, was b. at Lynn, 
                                Massachusetts
                            , February 14, 1810, d. at Weston, 
                                Massachusetts
                            , September 11, 1862, was a graduate of 
                                Harvard
                            , 1829, and of the Divinity School in 1833, was pastor of the Second Church in 
                                Boston
                             of which Ralph W. Emerson had been in charge, active in building a new church
                            edifice on Roylston Street, was chaplain of 
                                Massachusetts
                             Senate in 1834 and of the House of Representatives in 1850, was awarded the D.
                            D. degree by 
                                Harvard
                             in 1855.
                  
                     4 Chandler Robbins Gilman, s. of Benjamin Ives Oilman, was b.
                            September 6, 1802, at Marietta, 
                                Ohio
                            , d. September 26, 1865, in 
                                Middletown
                            , 
                                Connecticut
                            ; moved with his father to 
                                Philadelphia
                            , where he received the M.D. degree; later moved to 
                                New York
                             where he spent the remainder of his life; was professor of Physiology and
                            Surgery after 1841; with a relative, Charles Fenne Hoffman, he had charge of the American Monthly, and wrote several books.
                  
                     5 Winthrop Sargent Gilman, s. of Benjamin Ives Gilman, m. Abia Swift
                            Lippencott; they had thirteen children among whom were two sons, Theodore and Arthur.
                            Theodore was b. January 2, 1841, at Alton, 
                                Illinois
                            , m. Elizabeth Drinker Paxton in 1863; was educated at private schools and at
                            Williams College where he received the A.B. degree in 1862, and the A.M. degree in 1864; in
                            Wall Street forty years in municipal, railroad, and industrial business; a deacon and an
                            elder in the Presbyterian church; is a member of the Sons of the American Revolution; has
                            two daughters and two sons. Arthur Gilman was b. June 22, 1837, d. Dec. 27, 1909, m. (1) Amy
                            Cooke Ball, of Lee, 
                                Massachusetts
                            , April 12, 1860, and (2) Stella Houghton Scott, July 11, 1876; became an editor
                            and author of note in the fields of history and English literature; was instrumental in the
                            founding of the "
                                Harvard
                             Annex," which became Radcliffe College; published The
                                Gilman Family, (1869).
               
                     brick building in the town on the northeast corner of First and
                    Mulberry Streets, which he used as an office; he sold the business to Joseph Miller, going to 
                        St. Louis
                    , where he entered business with his brother under the name of Gilman Brothers.
            
               Ichabod W., s. of Benjamin Ives, b. 1793, d. 1879, m. (1) Lydia Mattox (d. 1850),
                    (2) Nancy Rhodes Andrews (m. in 1852); enlisted in War of 1812 in Clermont County, 
                        Ohio
                    , February 5, 1813, under Captain Daniel Hasbrook; came to Indiana in 1832 and settled
                    first in 
                        Shelby
                     County, and later in 
                        Greene
                     County; died at Hymera, 
                        Sullivan County
                    , Indiana; a son and a daughter are mentioned.
            
               Elijah Mattox, s. of Ichabod, was b. in Clermont County, 
                        Ohio
                    , August 25, 1825, m. Helen Louise Reeves (dau. of Eden and Phoebe (Hawkins) Reeves) in
                    April, 1848; came with his father's family to 
                        Shelby
                     County, Indiana, in 1832, where he attended school; came to 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Indiana, in 1834, where he learned the cooper trade; had six children: Henry (d. in
                    infancy), Helen Louise (b. February 2, 1850, in 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Indiana, m. October 10, 1871, James Bartram Reynolds, who was b. December 18, 1846, in 
                        Freeport
                    , 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , and d. September 29, 1902), Anna, Frank (m. Alice Lee), Harry Bryant (m. 
                        Virginia
                     Feltus, served several terms in the city council, and carried on the largest stave and
                    barrel industry in the city until his death), and John A. (d. in infancy).
            
               Mary Ellen, dau. of Ichabod W., was b. in Clermont County, 
                        Ohio
                    , January 29, 1829, m. in 1849 James W. Gibson; came with her father's family
                    to 
                        Shelby
                     County, Indiana, in 1832; attended schools in this county; had seven children:
                    Josephine (b. September 8, 1850, d. May 31, 1927), Lucetta (b. April 21, 1852, d. April, 1931),
                    Martha (b. March 17, 1854, d. 1922), Frank C. (b. October 30, 1855, d. November, 1928), Charles H.
                    (b. April 15, 1860), Kate (b. December 21, 1862, d. 1884), and Jessie M. (b. December 15, 1870).
         
         
         
            GENEALOGICAL AND HISTORICAL MATERIAL IN THE EMELINE FAIRBANKS MEMORIAL LIBRARY TERRE HAUTE,
                    INDIANA
            Stopping one day when passing through 
                        Terre Haute
                    , the editor made the acquaintance of Miss Florence Crawford, the librarian of the
                    Emeline Fairbanks Memorial Library, and examined hurriedly the collections which she has made.
                    Thinking that others might not know about the existence of this material, it seemed desirable to
                    publish a brief description. The work of collecting, preserving, and indexing such material is an
                    important and commendable function which many libraries might well emulate. It may be possible to
                    visit other libraries in the future, but whether that is possible or not, other librarians are
                    invited to send to the Indiana Magazine of History a brief statement of their
                    manuscript collections and copies of choice manuscripts that may be suitable for publication.
            Miss Crawford sent a list of the manuscript holdings from which the following was prepared: 
                        Cemetery records
                        
                     Report of City cemetery 1857-
                     Report of Woodlawn cemetery 1844–1885
                  
                        Church records
                        
                     First Presbyterian, St. Stephens, and St. Joseph of 
                                    Terre Haute
                                
                     
                     St. Mary of the Woods
                     Prairieton, 
                                    Quaker
                                 Church
                  
                        Daughters of the American Revolution
                        
                     Excerpts from original papers with index of ancestors and members of the Port
                                Harrison, Clinton, and 
                                    Brazil
                                 chapters
                  
                        Society of Colonial Wars, State of Indiana
                        
                     Excerpts from original papers with index of ancestors and members
                  
                        Genealogies
                        
                     240 in manuscript
                  
                        Marriage records
                        
                     
                        
                                    Knox
                                 County, 
                                    Kentucky
                                , 1800–1819
                     St. Mary of the Woods, 1837–1880
                     
                        
                                    Vigo County
                                , Indiana, 1818–1850
                  
                        Landholders
                        
                     A copy of names of first landholders in 
                                    Terre Haute
                                 was made from the plat of the city in the abstract office.
                  
                        Scrapbooks
                        
                     Genealogical items clipped from the 
                                    Boston
                                
                                Transcript, the 
                                    Hartford
                                
                                Times, the St. Johnsville Enterprise, and the 
                                
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                                Star, and indexed; twenty volumes and index
                     Obituary items kept by older citizens
                  
                        Manuscripts
                        
                     Diaries 
                           Diary of Enoch Honeywell, 
                                            New York
                                         to Fort Harrison, 1815
                           Four diaries of "Forty-niners" on their journeys to 
                                            California
                                         in 1849
                           Civil War diaries and letters
                        
                     
                     William H. Wiley, History of 
                                    Terre Haute
                                 Schools, 2 vols. The author was superintendent of city schools and a
                                trustee about forty years.
                     William H. Wiley, History of Libraries in 
                                    Terre Haute
                                
                     
                     All papers read at the 
                                    Vigo County
                                 Historical Society
                     Other miscellaneous material
                  
                        Indexes
                        
                     County histories of 
                                    Clay
                                , Davis, Green, 
                                    Knox
                                , Owen, Parke, Sullivan, and Vigo counties
                     American Archives, 3 vols.
                     Ledgers or account books, 1817–1853 The first account book from which
                                    names were copied was kept in Fort Harrison in 1817. Names are listed and dates
                                    copied. This work gives a fairly good directory of citizens of this period previous
                                    to the publication of the first city directory in 1858.
                     
                  
                    
            
         
         
         
            Queries
            Query 116: COLLINS AND DOUGLASS FAMILIES
            
            John Collins, whose parents were from 
                        Ireland
                    , was a school teacher and, perhaps, a captain in the Revolution. He was said to have
                    been born in 
                        Fairfax County
                    , 
                        Virginia
                    , in 1760. He died on March 18, 1826, in 
                        Franklin County
                    , Indiana. He married, August 14, 1788, Mary Catherine Kestner in Rockbridge, Augusta
                    County, 
                        Virginia
                    . Their children were Luke, Catherine, John, Hulda, Mary, Philip, Henry, Miller,
                    Rebecca, Juraldine Tardee, and Malinda. Mary Catherine Kestner may have been a descendant of John
                    Philip Kestner who came to 
                        Pennsylvania
                     in the early days, for there were a John and a Philip Kestner in Augusta County when
                    Mary Catherine was married, and one of her grandsons was named John Philip Kestner Collins. The
                    Collins family moved from 
                        Virginia
                     to the White Water Settlement in 
                        Franklin County
                    , Indiana, in 1809, and to 
                        Morgan County
                    , Indiana, in 1817 or 1818.
            Rebecca Collins, daughter of John and Mary Catherine Collins, was born on July 5, 1799, in 
                        Washington County
                    , 
                        Virginia
                    . She died in 1879. In 1825, she married Johnson Douglass in 
                        Morgan County
                    , Indiana. Johnson Douglass was born on July 15, 1784, in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     of Scotch parents who originally settled in 
                        Virginia
                    . He died on May 7, 1829, in 
                        Morgan County
                    , Indiana. He had a brother Edward, and the family was related to the Paxsons or
                    Paxtons. The first wife (Mary Catherine Kestner) and two baby daughters of Johnson Douglass died. He
                    then married Nellie Russell, while still in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . They had two sons, Robert Russell, and Thomas. Johnson Douglass came to Indiana before
                    the state was admitted to the union.
            Johnson and Rebecca Collins (his third wife) Douglass had two daughters. The younger died in infancy.
                    The elder, Caroline Louisa Douglass married William Cain. She died August 8, 1858. William Cain was
                    the son of George 
                        Washington
                     and Tabitha (Ciscal) Cain. Juraldine Tardee (Cain) Serogin was their daughter.
            I wish further information about the Douglass and Collins families. I especially wish to find
                    definite information about the service of John Collins in the Revolutionary War.
            —J. Smith Miller, 411 W. Fifth Street, 
                        Los Angeles
                    , 
                        California
                    
            
            
            Query 117: DARROW FAMILY
            
            Lemuel and Lucrecia Darrow located on a tract of land in the southeast corner of 
                        Madison
                     Township, 
                        Tipton
                     County, along 
                        Duck Creek
                     at a place known as Pleasant Hill. Their son was named Zadoc and his son was given the
                    same name. The latter died June 27, 1936, at the age of seventy-five.
            Dr. C. Howard Darrow, 110 Metropolitan Building, 
                        Denver
                    , 
                        Colorado
                    , a son of the last-named Zadoc Darrow, would like to know whether his branch of the
                    Darrow family can be traced to the Darrows of 
                        Connecticut
                    , especially those at New 
                        London
                     from which place he thinks his ancestors came.
            Query 118: HUGHES FAMILY
            
            Elizabeth Hughes was born, according to her tombstone, October 24, 1810, probably in 
                        Tennessee
                    . When seven years old her mother and stepfather started from 
                        Tennessee
                     by oxen for 
                        Vanderburgh
                     County, Indiana. On the way they were attacked by a party of Cherokees and Elizabeth
                    was taken prisoner and kept by the Cherokees for seven years, when she was rescued by a party of
                    scouts and returned to her parents in 
                        Vanderburgh
                     County. According to the pension papers of her husband, Samuel Hooker, they were
                    married August 25, 1830, in 
                        Vanderburgh
                     County. He seems to have been a constable in this county in 1832.
            
               
                        Virginia
                     Ingles Maes, 633 E. 54th St., 
                        Los Angeles
                    , 
                        California
                    , a great-granddaughter of Elizabeth Hughes, would like to know the parentage of her
                    great-grandmother and the part of 
                        Tennessee
                     from which she came to Indiana. If anyone has this information or is collecting Hughes
                    genealogy, she would be pleased to get in touch with them.
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
