
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 40, Issue 3, pages 210-315. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:40+issue:3+year:1944&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Lincoln's 
                        Gettysburg
                     Address
            J. W. FESLER
            It is popularly believed that the battle of 
                        Gettysburg
                     was the greatest battle of the War of the Rebellion. This may be true; but in the
                    opinion of many competent to judge, there was greater carnage at 
                        Antietam
                     and Chancellorsville was harder fought. Unquestionably, however, the battle of 
                        Gettysburg
                     was the most important battle of the war from the standpoint of the success of the
                    Union cause. Morever, it was the only battle of the Civil War fought on Northern soil.
            In the latter part of June, 1863, detachments of General Robert E. Lee's Army of Northern 
                        Virginia
                     entered 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and reached 
                        Harrisburg
                     on the north and York on the east menacing 
                        Philadelphia
                    , 
                        Baltimore
                    , and 
                        Washington
                    . The Union forces, the hitherto ill-fated Army of the Potomac, now commanded by General
                    George G. Meade, approached 
                        Gettysburg
                     from the south and southeast. As General Lee approached 
                        Gettysburg
                     from the west, he realized that a battle was imminent and recalled the Confederate
                    troops from their advanced positions in central and eastern 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . The battle of 
                        Gettysburg
                     followed on July 1, 2, and 3. Nearly 200,000 men were engaged in the battle, more than
                    40,000 of whom were wounded, and more than 5,000 were killed. Most of those who perished were
                    hastily buried in shallow graves where they fell.
            The large number of dead presented a serious problem for the community. To meet this exigency, the
                    citizens of 
                        Gettysburg
                    , led by Judge David Wills, purchased seventeen acres of ground on Cemetery Hill,
                    adjoining the old town cemetery, and arranged to inter there most of the Union dead, many of whom
                    were unidentified. Because soldiers of eighteen northern states were represented in this battle, the
                         national significance of this action is obvious. When
                    Governor Andrew G. Curtin of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     heard of the project, he appointed Judge Wills as his representative for the state of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and requested the governors of the other states whose soldiers lost their lives in the
                    battle to appoint representatives to act with Wills as an official commission to undertake the
                    establishment of a national cemetery at 
                        Gettysburg
                    . Judge Wills was designated as chairman of that commission, and the National Soldiers'
                    Cemetery at 
                        Gettysburg
                     became the first of its kind in the country.
            Re-interment of the Union dead was begun late in October. About 3700 soldiers are now buried there,
                    almost a thousand of whom are not identified. The Confederate dead were removed to their beloved
                    Southland a few years later. There was nothing to suggest the present beauty or impressiveness of
                    the cemetery upon the occasion of its consecreation on November 19, 1863. Indeed, a cornfield was
                    then being converted into a cemetery. William Saunders, a landscape architect who later landscaped
                    the grounds at the Lincoln Tomb, had been employed and graves had been arranged in sections in the
                    form of a semi-circle, and a platform had been erected in the center for the speakers and
                    distinguished guests. The platform faced away from the semi-circle so that the vast audience would
                    not stand on the newly made graves. A few years later the Soldiers' National Monument was built on
                    the space occupied by the platform; and the subsequent development of the 
                        Gettysburg
                     National Military Park, as a hallowed military shrine, was underway.
            As the work of re-interment proceeded, it was proposed that memorial dedicatory exercises be held to
                    consecrate this ground now made sacred. The date first fixed for this purpose was October 23, 1863.
                    The Honorable Edward Everett of 
                        Massachusetts
                     was then regarded as the greatest living American orator, and it was decided to invite
                    him to deliver the oration. But he replied that it was wholly out of his power to make the necessary
                    preparation by October 23, whereupon the dedication was postponed to November 19 nearly a month
                    later-to suit Mr. Everett's convenience.
            A formal invitation to be present was sent to the President of the 
                        United States
                     and to the members of his cabinet; to Major General Meade, who commanded the Federal
                    troops in the battle of 
                        Gettysburg
                    ; to the diplomatic corps, representing  foreign
                    governments; to the members of both houses of Congress; and to other distinguished personages. These
                    invitations and all arrangements for the dedicatory exercises were considered and decided by the
                    Board of Commissioners of the National Soldiers' Cemetery and were carried into effect by Judge
                    Wills.
            The decision to ask Mr. Lincoln to speak was an afterthought. In fact, it did not
                    seem to occur to anyone that he could speak upon such an occasion. In addition, it was said that,
                    with his important duties and responsibilities, he could not possibly have the leisure time to
                    prepare an address for such an occasion. Nevertheless, with some reluctance and perhaps as a
                    concession to his office, Judge Wills wrote to President Lincoln: "It is the desire that
                    after the oration, you, as Chief Executive of the nation, formally set apart these grounds to their
                    sacred use by a few appropriate remarks. . . ."1 But the invitation was
                    not settled upon and sent to Mr. Lincoln until November 2, more than six weeks after Mr. Everett had
                    been invited to speak and but little more than two weeks before the exercises were held. This
                    hesitancy and caution, however, on the part of the Cemetery Commission mattered not to Abraham
                    Lincoln. Here again his deep humility was manifest and, as John Bigelow once wrote in an appraisal
                    of Lincoln: "He was so modest by nature that he was perfectly content to walk behind any
                    man who wished to walk before him."2
            
            The President arrived at 
                        Gettysburg
                     on a special train on the evening before the exercises and was driven at once to the
                    residence of Judge Wills, whose guest he was during his stay in 
                        Gettysburg
                    . Judge Wills relates that at about nine o'clock the President sent for him and asked
                    what was expected of him. The President had some paper in his hand and, after explaining the part
                    which Mr. Lincoln was to take in the proceedings on the following day, Mr. Wills left him. At about
                    ten o'clock the President sent for Judge Wills again and asked him where Seward was. Upon being
                    informed that the secretary of state was at the home of a neighbor, the President, accompanied by
                    Wills, called on 
                  
                     1 John G. Nicolay and John Hay, Abraham Lincoln, A
                                History (10 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1890), VIII, 190.
                  
                     2 Carl Sandburg, Abraham Lincoln (6 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1941-1942), VI, 381.
               
                     Secretary Seward and remained with him for an hour. Obviously,
                    the President was now engaged in the preparation of his speech. It is known to have been
                    Lincoln's custom to consult Secretary Seward on his public utterances, and this was the
                    first unofficial address that he had been called on to make since he had assumed the duties of the
                    presidency.
            When and where, then, did Mr. Lincoln prepare the "few appropriate remarks" he had been reluctantly
                    invited to deliver and which, in after years, were to be given the superlative praise of being "the
                    supreme masterpiece of the English language"? The best authority on these questions and
                    unmistakably the one most competent to speak was John G. Nicolay, the President's private
                    secretary. Fortunately, Mr. Nicolay published an article on this subject in which he says,
                    "There is no decisive record of when Mr. Lincoln wrote the first sentences of his proposed
                    address," but he does speak of Mr. Lincoln's custom of "using great
                    deliberation in arranging his thoughts, and moulding his phrases mentally, waiting to reduce them to
                    writing until they had taken satisfactory form." There was even greater necessity of
                    precaution in this case because the invitation to speak specified that the address should be only
                    "a few appropriate remarks." After speaking of the want of opportunity for Mr.
                    Lincoln even to think leisurely, Mr. Nicolay added: 
                        All this strongly confirms the correctness of the statement made by the Hon. James Speed,3 in an interview printed in the "
                                Louisville
                             Commercial," in November, 1879, that the President told him that
                            "the day before he left 
                                Washington
                             he found time to write about half of his speech."4
                  
                     Manifestly, there should be no further doubt as to when and where the first part of the
                    speech was prepared. Mr. Nicolay continues: 
                        It was after the breakfast hour on the morning of the 19th that the writer . . . went to the
                            upper room in the house of Mr. Wills which Mr. Lincoln occupied, to report for duty, and
                            remained with the President while he finished writing the 
                                Gettysburg
                             address, during the short leisure he could utilize for this purpose before
                            being called up to take his place in the procession, which was . . . to move promptly at ten
                            o'clock.
                        
                     
                        3 James Speed was appointed attorney-general late in 1864. See E.
                                Merton Coulter, "James Speed," Dictionary of American
                                    Biography (20 vols., 
                                    New York
                                , 1928-1936), XVII (1935), 440-41.
                     
                        4 John G. Nicolay, "Lincoln's 
                                    Gettysburg
                                 Address," Century (
                                    New York
                                , 1881-1930), XLVII (1894), 597.
                  
                        
                        There is neither record, evidence, nor well-founded tradition that Mr. Lincoln did any
                            writing, or made any notes, on the journey between 
                                Washington
                             and 
                                Gettysburg
                            . The train consisted of four passenger-coaches, and either composition or
                            writing would have been extremely troublesome amid the movement, the noise, the
                            conversation, the greetings, and the questionings which ordinary courtesy required him to
                            undergo in these surroundings. . . . Mr. Lincoln carried in his pocket the autograph
                            manuscript of so much of his address as he had written at 
                                Washington
                             the day before.
                     Obviously, then, no fact could be more indisputably established than when and where Mr.
                    Lincoln's address was prepared.
            Mr. Nicolay's article also contains a facsimile reproduction of the first draft of the
                    address: 
                        The first page was written in ink in the President's strong clear hand, with one
                            correction in pencil in the last line. The second page, written with a pencil was doubtless
                            written at 
                                Gettysburg
                            .
                    
            
            Mr. Nicolay stated that there are three versions of Lincoln's 
                        Gettysburg
                     address: 
                        
                     The original autograph MS. draft, written by Mr Lincoln partly at 
                                    Washington
                                 and partly at 
                                    Gettysburg
                                .
                     The version made by the shorthand reporter on the stand at 
                                    Gettysburg
                                 when the President delivered it, which was telegraphed, and was printed in
                                the leading newspapers of the country on the following morning.
                     The revised copy made by the President a few days after his return to 
                                    Washington
                                , upon a careful comparison of his original draft and the printed newspaper
                                version with his own recollections of the exact form in which he delivered it.5
                     
                  
                    
            
            This latter copy, in the opinion of Mr. Nicolay, was a careful and deliberate revision and
                    "has become the standard and authentic text." This new autograph copy was made by
                    the President in response to a request from Judge Wills four days after Mr. Lincoln's
                    return to 
                        Washington
                    , "for the dedicatory remarks delivered by you here last Monday."
            Following the arrival of the procession at the cemetery where many thousands had assembled-some
                    estimates place the crowd at 30,000 to 50,000-the exercises were opened with an invocation by the
                    chaplain of the United State House of Representatives. Letters of regret were read from General
                    Meade, who was still in command of the Army of the Potomac, and others, after which Mr. Everett was
                    introduced. 
                  
                     5
                            Ibid., XLVII, 596-97, 601.
               
                     He spoke for two hours, devoting the first hour to a detailed
                    description of the three-day battle and another hour to a discussion of responsibility for the war
                    and dire consequences that would have followed the success of Lee. The oration was wholly worthy the
                    occasion but is not within the purview of this paper.
            At the close of Mr. Everett's address, a dirge written especially for the occasion by Mr.
                    Benjamin B. French was sung by a hundred voices, after which President Lincoln was introduced to the
                    multitude. Clark E. Carr, the 
                        Illinois
                     member of the Cemetery Commission, attended the dedication and wrote of it in his book
                    as follows: 
                        When the President thus appeared it was the first opportunity the people really had to see
                            him. There was the usual craning of necks, the usual exclamations of "Down in
                            front!" the usual crowding to get places to see, and much confusion. He waited patiently for
                            the audience to become quiet, and there was absolute silence while he spoke. He began in
                            those high clarion tones, which the people of 
                                Illinois
                             had so often heard, to which he held to the close. His was a voice that, when
                            he made an effort, could reach a great multitude, and he always tried to make every one
                            hear. He held in his left hand two or three pages of manuscript, toward which he glanced but
                            once. He spoke with deliberation, but cannot have continued more than three or four, some
                            said two, minutes.
                        A moment's reflection will convince any one that before the great multitude of
                            people, nearly all of whom were standing, could have prepared themselves to listen
                            intelligently . . . before their thoughts had become sufficiently centered upon the speaker
                            to take up his line of thought and follow him-he had finished and returned to his seat. . .
                            .
                        So short a time was Mr. Lincoln before them that the people could scarcely believe their eyes
                            when he disappeared from their view. They were almost dazed. They could not possibly, in so
                            short a time, mentally grasp the ideas that were conveyed, nor even their substance. Time
                            and again expressions of disappointment were made to me. Many persons said to me that they
                            would have supposed that on such a great occasion the President would have made a speech.
                            Every one thought, as expressed by Mr. Wills four days later . . . that instead of Mr.
                            Lincoln's delivering an address, he only made a very few "dedicatory
                            remarks."
                        We, on the platform heard every word. And what did we hear? A dozen commonplace
                            sentences, scarcely one of which contained anything new, anything that when stated was not
                            self-evident.
                        I am aware, because I noted it at the time, that in the Associated Press report, which
                            appeared in the morning papers, there were the punctuations of "applause,"
                            "long continued applause," etc., according to the invariable custom in
                            those days. Except when he  was concluded, I did not
                            observe it, and at the close the applause was not especially marked. . . .6
                  
                    
            
            Corroborating Commissioner Carr's statements as to how the President's address was
                    received, Major William H. Lambert, one of the earlier Lincoln collectors, said in an address before
                    the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Historical Society upon the occasion of the commemoration of the centenary of
                    Lincoln's birth: 
                        The circumstances attending the delivery of the Address were not such as to conduce to its
                            full appreciation. The procession that had escorted the President to the field had been
                            greatly belated, and after his arrival upon the platform the proceedings were still further
                            delayed, awaiting the arrival of the orator of the day. Mr. Everett's oration, that
                            had been preceded by a prayer of some length and by music, was of two hours' duration, so
                            that when the President spoke it was to an audience that had been standing for nearly four
                            hours.
                        The brevity of the speech, the absence of rhetorical effort, and its very simplicity
                            prevented its full appreciation. . . .
                        Undoubtedly there were many in the audience who fully appreciated the beauty and pathos of
                            the President's Address, and many of those who read it on the following day
                            perceived its wondrous character; but it is apparent that its full force and grandeur were
                            not generally recognized then, either by its auditors or its readers. Not until the war
                            itself had ended and the great leader had fallen did the Nation realize that this speech had
                            given to 
                                Gettysburg
                             another claim to immortality and to American eloquence its highest glory. . .
                                .7
                  
                    
            
            In this connection and in view of the misleading press reports, it may be only just to Judge Wills
                    and Mr. Carr to pursue the inquiry as to how the President's address was received
                    immediately following its delivery. Ward Hill Lamon, marshal of the 
                        District of Columbia
                    , says: 
                        On the platform from which Mr. Lincoln delivered his address, and only a moment after it was
                            concluded, Mr. Seward turned to Mr. Everett and asked him what he thought of the
                            President's speech. Mr. Everett replied: "It is not what I expected from
                            him. I am disappointed." Then in his turn Mr. Everett asked, "What do you
                            think of it, Mr. Seward?" The response was, "He has made a failure, and
                            I am sorry for it. His speech is not equal to him." Mr. Seward then turned to me
                            and asked, "Mr. Marshal, what do you 
                        
                           6 Clark E. Carr, Lincoln at 
                                            Gettysburg
                                        
                            (
                                        Chicago
                                    , 1909), 56-60.
                        
                           7 Major William H. Lambert, "The 
                                        Gettysburg
                                     Address: When Written, How Received, Its True Form," 
                              
                                            Pennsylvania
                                         Magazine of History and Biography (
                                        Philadelphia
                                    , 1877-), XXXIII (1909), 398-99.
                     
                             think of it?" I answered, "I am
                            sorry to say that it does not impress me as one of his great speeches."
                        In the face of these facts, it has been repeatedly published that this speech was received by
                            the audience with loud demonstrations of approval; that "amid the tears, sobs, and
                            cheers it produced in the excited throng, the orator of the day, Mr. Everett, turned to Mr.
                            Lincoln, grasped his hand and exclaimed, 'I congratulate you on your success!' adding in a
                            transport of heated enthusiasm, 'Ah, Mr. President, how gladly would I give my hundred pages
                            to be the author of your twenty lines!'" Nothing of the kind occurred. . . .
                        As a matter of fact, the silence during the delivery of the speech, and the lack of hearty
                            demonstrations of approval immediately after its close, were taken by Mr. Lincoln as certain
                            proof that it was not well received. . . .8
                  
                    
            
            That the President did not realize the surpassing excellence nor appreciate the far-reaching scope of
                    influence of his brief address is indicated by his remark to Mr. Lamon that it did not seem to
                    scour-a phrase he sometimes used to describe ineffectiveness. It is further indicated by his action
                    following his speech, when he crumpled in his hand the two sheets of paper on which he had written
                    his address and tossed them upon the floor of the stand from which he spoke, to be picked up,
                    fortunately, by his secretary, John Hay, and subsequently deposited in the Congressional Library.
                        
                        If any person then present saw, or thought he saw, the marvelous beauties of that wonderful
                            speech, as intelligent men in all lands now see and acknowledge them, his superabundant
                            caution closed his lips and stayed his pen.9
                  
                    
            
            As Mr. Lamon presided at the dedicatory ceremonies and was an intimate personal and political friend
                    of the President, his comments upon the address can not be disregarded.
            Mr. Nicolay, in concluding his comments upon Mr. Lincoln's address, says: 
                        They were therefore totally unprepared for what they heard, and could not immediately realize
                            that his words, and not those of the carefully selected orator, were to
                            carry the concentrated thought of the occasion like a trumpet-peal to farthest posterity.10
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  8 Ward Hill Lamon, Recollections of Abraham Lincoln,
                        1847-1865 (ed. by Dorothy Lamon Teillard, 
                            Washington, D. C.
                        , 1911), 174-75.
               
                  9
                        Ibid., 175.
               
                  10 Nicolay, "Lincoln's 
                            Gettysburg
                         Address," Century, XLVII, 602.
            
            
            Mr. Carr wrote, 
                        My own recollection, which is more clear as to occurrences in those troublous times,
                            especially those upon that occasion, the responsibilities of which devolved in a great
                            degree upon a board of which I was a member, coincides with that of Mr. Lamon and Mr.
                            Nicolay. It is true, as Mr. Nicolay says, the hearers were totally unprepared for what they
                            heard and could not immediately realize how able and far-reaching was Mr. Lincoln's
                            address. My recollection also confirms that of Mr. Lamon, that no one there present saw the
                            marvelous beauties of that wonderful speech. I did not hear the expressions of Mr. Seward
                            and Mr. Everett in regard to it, as my seat was with the members of our Commission, but from
                            the expressions of opinion I did hear, I have no doubt that they were made.
                        I heard every word and every articulation of Mr. Lincoln, and had no realization that he did
                            anything more than make "a few dedicatory remarks." His expressions were
                            so plain and homely, without any attempt at rhetorical periods, and his statements were so
                            axiomatic, and, I may say, matter of fact, and so simple, that I had no idea that as an
                            address it was more than ordinary.11
                  
                    
            
            R. D. Packard asks, 
                        What did it matter that the dedicatory remarks were indiferently received? The
                            audience destined to hear them would include all posterity. Through Lincoln's
                            momentous words, 
                                Gettysburg
                             was to live forever.12
                  
                    
            
            As to President Lincoln's manner and bearing, Mr. Carr says: 
                        I was very much struck . . . by the appearance of Mr. Lincoln when he arose and stood before
                            the audience. It seemed to me that I had never seen any other human being who was so
                            stately, and I may say, majestic, and yet benignant. His features had a sad, mournful,
                            almost haggard, and still hopeful expression. Every one was impressed with his sincerity and
                            earnestness.
                    
            
            In his analysis of Mr. Lincoln's address, Mr. Carr thus characterizes its rhetorical
                    excellence: 
                        Short as [it] is . . . it contains all the elements of an elaborate and finished
                            oration,-exordium, argument, climax, and peroration. While each of these divisions is far
                            more extended in Mr. Everett's oration, they are not more marked than in Mr.
                            Lincoln's.
                        
                     
                        11 Carr, Lincoln at 
                                        Gettysburg
                                    , 65-67.
                     
                        12 R. D. Packard, "When Lincoln Spoke at 
                                    Gettysburg
                                ," The Sohioan (
                           Cleveland, Ohio
                        , 1929-), XI (1939), 4-9.
                  
                        
                        In his exordium, consisting of five simple sentences, each one of which recalls a fact
                            apparent to every hearer, he lays foundations for the superstructure upon which he builds,
                            broad and deep.
                        "Four score and seven years ago our fathers brought forth upon this continent a new
                            nation, conceived in liberty, and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created
                            equal.
                        "Now we are engaged in a great civil war, testing whether that nation,
                                or any nation, so conceived and so dedicated, can long endure. We are met on a
                            great battlefield of that war. We are met to dedicate a portion of it as the final resting
                            place for those who here gave their lives that that nation might live. It is altogether
                            fitting and proper that we should do this."
                        After thus laying the foundation, he states an argument:
                        "But, in a larger sense, we cannot dedicate-we cannot consecrate-we cannot hallow
                            this ground. The brave men, living and dead, who struggled here have consecrated it far
                            above our poor power to add or detract. The world will little note, nor long remember, what
                            we say here, but it can never forget what they did here. It is for us, the living, rather to
                            be dedicated here to the unfinished work that they have thus far so nobly carried
                            on."
                        And to make the argument stronger, to clinch it, as we would say, he repeats, "It is
                            rather for us to be dedicated here to the great task remaining before us,-that from these
                            honored dead we take increased devotion to the cause for which they gave the last full
                            measure of devotion."
                        And then follows the climax: "That we here highly resolve that these dead shall not
                            have died in vain."
                        And then the peroration: "That this nation shall, under God, have a new birth of
                            freedom, and that the government of the people, by the people, for the people, shall not
                            perish from the earth."
                    
            
            In closing his analysis of the address, Mr. Carr makes this impressive observation: 
                        I want to say in passing that there was one sentence that did deeply affect me-the only one
                            in which the President manifested emotion. With the close of that sentence his lips
                            quivered, and there was a tremor in his voice which I can never forget. I recall it whenever
                            I consider the address. The sentence was, "The world will little note, nor long
                            remember, what we say here, but it can never forget what they did here."13
                  
                    
            
            It is interesting here to recall the comment of Dr. Christopher B. Coleman, former director of the
                    Indiana Historical Bureau, in a Memorial Day address at Purdue University 
                  
                     13 Carr, Lincoln at 
                                    Gettysburg
                                , 67-77.
               
                     some years ago, when he said, referring to this same sentence:
                        
                        At 
                                Gettysburg
                             President Lincoln turned from the dedication of the battlefield as a memorial
                            of the men who had fought there, to the dedication, by the battle, of the nation to its
                            unfinished task. . . . Had he known that he was then making the speech which was to be
                            quoted more often than any other delivered in one hundred fifty years of our national
                            history, even so he probably would have belittled what was said in comparison with what was
                            done at 
                                Gettysburg
                            .14
                  
                    
            
            On the day after the address was delivered, it appeared in full in every leading newspaper of the 
                        United States
                    . Even then those who, in a high degree, appreciated it were comparatively few. It was
                    generally assumed that the President would, in what he said, simply dedicate that ground to the
                    sacred purpose for which it had been set apart. But as the people read the printed speech, it
                    gradually dawned upon them that the President had solemnly dedicated those who heard him, and not
                    merely those who heard him, but all his people to the cause for which the martyred heroes about him
                    died and that this was the underlying thought and object of his address.
            When Mr. Everett read the address, he began to realize something of its merits; and on the following
                    day he said in a note to the President: 
                        Permit me also to express my great admiration of the thoughts expressed by you with such
                            eloquent simplicity and appropriateness at the consecration of the cemetery. I should be
                            glad if I could flatter myself that I came so near the central idea of the occasion in two
                            hours as you did in two minutes.15
                  
                     To which compliment President Lincoln graciously replied on the same day: 
                        Your kind note of today is received. In our respective parts yesterday, you could not have
                            been excused to make a short address, nor I a long one. I am pleased to know that in your
                            judgment, the little I did say was not a failure. Of course, I knew Mr. Everett would not
                                
                        
                           14 Christopher B. Coleman, "The Undying
                                    Past," Bulletin of Purdue University (
                                        Lafayette
                                    , 1900-), XXIX (1929), 9.
                        
                           15 Nicolay, "Lincoln's 
                                        Gettysburg
                                     Address," Century, XLVII, 604.
                     
                             fail, and yet, while the whole discourse was eminently
                            satisfactory, and will be of great value, there were passages in it which transcended my
                                expectations.16
                  
                    
            
            In this connection it is interesting to note the change in Dr. Everett's opinion of Lincoln.
                    As President-elect, after having read some of Lincoln's informal remarks to the public as
                    he journeyed to 
                        Washington
                     for the inauguration, Everett noted in his diary this estimate of Lincoln: 
                        These speeches thus far have been of the most ordinary kind, destitute of everything, not
                            merely a felicity and grace but of common pertinence. He is evidently a person of very
                            inferior cast of character, wholly unequal to the crisis.17
                  
                    
            
            Everett's attitude changed, however, as soon as he came to know Lincoln personally, and he
                    spoke about his "intellectual capacities" and how his "kindly . . . spirit mingles
                    its sweetness with the austere cup of public duty." After a formal dinner at the home of
                    Mr. Wills at 
                        Gettysburg
                     on the evening before the consecration ceremonies, Dr. Everett said that the President
                    "was the peer of any person present so far as manners, appearance, and conversation were
                        concerned."18
            
            While our people gradually began to appreciate in some degree the high character of the address, we
                    did not at all realize at the time how sublime and how comprehensive it was. Not until it had been
                    read and commented upon across the Atlantic did we, generally speaking, place it in our minds among
                    the masterpieces. The Edinburg Review, The 
                            London
                         Spectator, The Saturday Review and several other English periodicals, spoke of
                    it in the highest terms of commendation shortly after its delivery.19 Goldwin
                    Smith, distinguished English publicist, thus commented upon the excellence of this address:
                    "But, looking to the substance, it may be doubted whether any king in Europe would have
                    expressed himself more royally than the peasant's son."20
            
            
               
                  16
                        Ibid., XLVII, 604.
               
                  17 Paul R. Frothingham, Edward Everett, Orator and
                        Statesman (
                            Boston
                         and 
                            New York
                        , 1925), 414.
               
                  18
                        Ibid., 453, 461.
               
                  19 Lamon, Recollections of Abraham Lincoln, 1847-1865,
                        pp. 176-77.
               
                  20 Goldwin Smith, "President Lincoln,"
                        Littell's Living Age (
                            Boston
                        , 1844-), LXXXIV (1865), 427.
            
            
            To the 
                  Springfield, Massachusetts
               , Republican goes the honor of
                    contributing the first worthy estimate of the Lincoln address appearing in the American press.
                    Josiah G. Holland, later one of Mr. Lincoln's biographers, said, "Surpassingly
                    fine as Mr. Everett's oration was in the 
                        Gettysburg
                     consecration, the rhetorical honors of the occasion were won by President
                        Lincoln."21
            
            George William Curtis, then editor of Harper's Weekly, took occasion to
                    comment on the 
                        Gettysburg
                     address about two weeks after the ceremonies at the battlefield: 
                        The few words of the President were from the heart to the heart. They cannot be read, even,
                            without kindling emotion. "The world will little note nor long remember what we say
                            here, but it can never forget what they did here." It was as simple and felicitous
                            and earnest a word as was ever spoken.22
                  
                    
            
            Later Harper's Weekly referred to the 
                        Gettysburg
                     Address in an editorial as "the most perfect piece of American eloquence, and
                    as noble and pathetic and appropriate as the oration of Pericles over the Peloponnesian
                        dead."23 And let it be said to the honor of American patriotism
                    that this high estimate of the quality of this incomparable address has been long universally
                    accepted.
            Speaking at the fiftieth anniversary of the dedication of the cemetery at 
                        Gettysburg
                     in 1913, Newell Dwight Hillis declared that "the greatest thing about the
                    battle of 
                        Gettysburg
                     is the fact that it made possible the speech of Abraham Lincoln."24
            
            Dr. Louis A. Warren, with whom the study of Lincoln has been a passion since boyhood, expressed his
                    appraisal of the 
                        Gettysburg
                     Address in this brief sentence: "In nobility of spirit and majesty of phrase,
                    it is unequaled by any modern utterance."25
            
            
               
                  21 William E. Barton, Lincoln at 
                                Gettysburg
                            
                   (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1930), 117.
               
                  22
                        Ibid., 121; Harper's Weekly (
                            New York
                        , 1857-1916), VII (1863), 770.
               
                  23
                        Harper's Weekly, VIII (1864), 258.
               
                  24
                        Report of the 
                                Pennsylvania
                             Commission, 
                                Pennsylvania
                             at 
                                Gettysburg
                            
                   (3 vols., 
                            Harrisburg
                        , 1914-1939), III, 161.
               
                  25 Louis A. Warren (ed.), "Increasing Respect for the 
                            Gettysburg
                         Address," Lincoln Lore (Fort 
                            Wayne
                        , 1929-), No. 343 (November 4, 1935).
            
            
            No one, perhaps, on either side of the Atlantic has commented more succinctly and understandingly
                    about this address than did Lord Curzon, Earl of Kedleston, Chancellor of the University of 
                        Oxford
                    , when he delivered an address on "Modern Parliamentary Eloquence" before the
                    University of 
                        Cambridge
                     on November 6, 1913. In the course of his address, he referred to what he considered
                    the "three supreme masterpieces of English eloquence-the toast of William Pitt after the
                    victory of Trafalgar, and two of Lincoln's speeches: The 
                        Gettysburg
                     Address and the Second Inaugural." In his comments he said: 
                        The 
                                Gettysburg
                             Address is far more than a pleasing piece of occasional oratory. It is a
                            marvelous piece of English composition. It is a pure well of English undefiled. It sets one
                            to inquiring with nothing short of wonder "How knoweth this man letters, having
                            never learned?" The more closely the address is analyzed the more one must
                            confess astonishment at its choice of words, the precision of its thought, its simplicity,
                            directness and effectiveness.26
                  
                    
            
            The relevant implications of the Lincoln address to present world conditions are properly within this
                    discussion. Almost every word of the address is as pertinent to the life and death struggle in which
                    we are now engaged for the preservation of our democratic form of government as it was to our duties
                    and obligations following the battle of 
                        Gettysburg
                     eighty years ago.
            In this connection it is an interesting fact that Sun Yat-sen's plans for 
                        China
                    's democracy were inspired by this address. Lincoln's phrases,
                    "government of the people, by the people, and for the people," were paraphrased by
                    Dr. Sun as "the people to have, the people to govern, the people to enjoy," and
                    these eventually were presented to the Chinese people as the Three People's Doctrine,27 the cornerstone of democracy which Free 
                        China
                     is now fighting to defend and to perpetuate.
            It is worthy of note that wherever one happens upon the text of the 
                        Gettysburg
                     address today, particularly in public places, he finds others thoughtfully and
                    contemplatively reading again the immortal words of consecration 
                  
                     26 Barton, Lincoln at 
                                    Gettysburg
                                , 129.
                  
                     27 Leonard S. Hs$, Sun Yat-sen, His Political and Social
                                Ideals
                            
                                Los Angeles
                            , 1933), 108.
               
                     and dedication. An outstanding instance of this can be observed
                    in the beautiful and impressive Lincoln Memorial in 
                        Washington
                    , which contains only the statute of Lincoln and the texts of his 
                        Gettysburg
                     address and his second inaugural speech. Bernard DeVoto has thus described his visit:
                        
                        Impressive as the statue is, one presently ignores it; the texts count more. One se$s them
                            working an effect on the uniformed boys. On the approaches and the steps there is a good
                            deal of talk, laughter, and horseplay. It becomes a whisper and presently dies out; the
                            place is quiet. They stand reading those texts, they loiter for a while, and few of them say
                            anything as they go away. There are those ribbons and stars-North Africa, the Solomons, the
                            Aleutians, the sea frontiers, Sicily, the sky over 
                                France
                             and 
                                Germany
                            . Some of those boys have been there, the rest are on their way-and they might
                            have spent this half-hour with their friends, their wives, or their girls. They don't talk
                            much as they go away, and one becomes aware that they came here to be in touch for a moment
                            with the highest expression ever made of what gives them meaning. A man is speaking to them
                            out of an earlier testing, an earlier proof. They know what he is talking about.28
                  
                    
            
            Abraham Lincoln is with us still-more potently than any man in our history.
            If one does not look beyond the words of this address and thinks only of its simplicity and its rare
                    rhetorical perfection, he will lose much that thoughtful contemplation will suggest. In this view of
                    the address, I venture finally to say that the unfathomable mystery in Lincoln's 
                        Gettysburg
                     address is not when or where he wrote any part of
                    it, but how. In his circumstances from birth through the formative years of his
                    young manhood; with his limited educational opportunities, as we know them; and having neither
                    varied nor extensive experience in his later years beyond the routine practice of law in the pioneer
                    days of a hundred years ago in central 
                        Illinois
                    -with such a background, how could he produce in a few days "the supreme
                    masterpiece of the English language" in ten sentences, of two hundred seventytwo words of which two
                    hundred and four are of one syllable?
            True, he had read Aesop's Fables and biographies of Benjamin Franklin and
                    George 
                        Washington
                    , and Robert 
                  
                     28 Bernard DeVoto, "The Easy Chair," Harper's (
                                New York
                             and 
                                London
                            , 1850-), CLXXXVIII (1943), 38.
               
                     Burns was his favorite poet. He was also a student of the Bible
                    and he read William Shakespeare, both of which are competent guidance to good English composition;
                    but the 
                        Gettysburg
                     address is more than English composition. It is, commonly speaking, so all inclusive,
                    so far-reaching in its implications, so lofty in its conceptions, and withal so profoundly moving in
                    every sentence that its creation by one of Lincoln's limited background is beyond
                    understanding.
            I am not unaware that this unparalleled achievement has been attributed to preparation that began
                    with Lincoln's birth and continued to the moment he rose to consecrate the 
                        Gettysburg
                     battlefield to the cause of the war and to dedicate all his people to the principles of
                    free government and political equality. It has been said also that every experience of Abraham
                    Lincoln, throughout his life, was reflected in his sublime pronouncement at 
                        Gettysburg
                    . Nevertheless, such observations do not account for or explain such power. The ability
                    to write "pure English undefiled" as exemplified in the 
                        Gettysburg
                     address cannot be attained by absorption of physical conditions reflected in a
                    background marked by the deprivations of poverty and the hardships of pioneer life. The classic in
                    English letters is not evolved through such methods. Again, Abraham Lincoln defies analysis.29
            
            The mystery becomes even more inexplicable as we recall the qualifications of Edward Everett for his
                    part in the consecration exercises and realize that his oration of two hours is long since largely
                    forgotten, while Lincoln's address of two minutes has become immortal.
            Everett seemed educated and culturally trained for what he regarded as the supreme achievement of his
                    life his 
                        Gettysburg
                     oration. The son of a 
                        Boston
                     clergyman; graduate of 
                        Harvard
                    ; early widely known in the Unitarian ministry; returned to 
                        Harvard
                     as professor of Greek; a 
                  
                     29 Dr. M. L. Houser, "Young Abraham Lincoln and
                                Log College (Peoria, 
                                Illinois
                            , 1942), verifies in his painstaking researches the wide range of purposeful
                            reading and intense study by Lincoln during his years in Indiana and his earlier years in 
                                Illinois
                            . This study, nevertheless, does not solve appreciably the mystery of
                            Linclon's inexplicable and unequalled power manifested in his discriminating and
                            impressive use of English, which he seemed suddenly to possess in his inaugural and 
                                Gettysburg
                             addresses,
               
                     member of Congress for ten years; governor of 
                        Massachusetts
                     four terms; minister to 
                        England
                    ; again back to 
                        Harvard
                    , this time as president; secretary of state in President Millard Fillmore's
                    cabinet; and finally 
                        United States
                     senator from 
                        Massachusetts
                    . After a distinguished career there, he retired to follow his literary predilections in
                    the course of which he was nominated in 1860 for vice-president on the Bell-Everett ticket of the
                    Constitutional Union party.30 Naturally the high spot in the program for the
                    consecration ceremonies would be the oration of one thus qualified to speak; for, compared with
                    Everett's long and impressive record, Lincoln's four terms in the 
                        Illinois
                     legislature and one term as a representative in Congress seem insignificant.
            The more one reflects upon this incredible and unprecedented performance of Abraham Lincoln at 
                        Gettysburg
                    -so perfect in composition that the addition, omission, or substitution of a single word
                    would destroy its literary perfection and impair its sublime spiritual quality-the more
                    incomprehensible and marvelous it becomes, unless we adopt the hypothesis of James Russell 
                        Lowell
                    , as expressed in the verses on Lincoln in his "Ode Recited at the 
                        Harvard
                     Commemoration," three months after Lincoln's death. Is it possible
                    that Lowell solved the mystery in these lines? 
                        Nature, they say, doth dote,
                        And cannot make a man
                        Save on some worn-out plan,
                        Repeating us by rote:
                        For him her Old-World moulds aside she threw,
                        And, choosing sweet clay from the breast
                        Of the unexhausted West,
                        With stuff untainted shaped a hero new,
                        Wise, steadfast in the strength of God, and true.
                        How beautiful to see
                        Once more a shepherd of mankind indeed,
                        Who loved his charge, but never loved to lead;
                        One whose meek flock the people joyed to be,
                        Not lured by any cheat of birth,
                        But by his clean-grained human worth,
                        
                     
                        30 Henry G. Pearson, "Edward Everett," Dictionary of American Biography, VI (1931), 223-26.
                  
                        
                        And brave old wisdom of sincerity!
                        They knew that outward grace is dust;
                        They could not choose but trust
                        In that sure-footed mind's unfaltering skill,
                        And supple-tempered will
                        That bent like perfect steel to spring again and thrust.
                        The kindly-earnest, brave, foreseeing man,
                        Sagacious, patient, dreading praise, not blame,
                        New birth of our new soil, the first American.31
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  31
                        The Complete Writings of James Russell 
                                Lowell
                            
                   (16 vols., 
                            Boston
                         and 
                            New York
                        , 1904), XIII, 23-25.
            
         
         
         
            The Indiana War History Commission1
            
            JOHN D. BARNHART
            Before the 
                        United States
                     was involved in war by the attack upon Pearl Harbor, the state of Indiana cooperated
                    with the nation in its defense and preparedness program. The General Assembly of Indiana on March
                    10, 1941, passed the State Defense Act which provided for an Advisory Defense Council, an
                    Administrative Defense Council,2 and a Civilian Defense Director who should also
                    be the chairman of the Administrative Council. Clarence A. Jackson, the executive vice-president of
                    the Indiana State Chamber of Commerce, was appointed Civilian Defense Director by Governor Henry F.
                    Schricker.
            In his new work the director looked for a descriptive historical account of the experiences of the
                    director of defense during the World War of 1917-1918. He failed to find such an account in Indiana
                    that would serve him as a guide. Anxious to prevent a possible repetition of his experience in the
                    future and conscious of the historical importance of developments in which Indiana was
                    participating, Mr. Jackson called upon President Herman B Wells of Indiana University to assist in
                    preparing a plan by which the records of the war period should be collected, and an account written
                    showing the part Indiana was playing in the war and the effect of the war upon Indiana.
                    Understanding the importance of this request, the president volunteered the services of Indiana
                    University.
            The president appointed a committee of members of the university faculty to discuss ways and means of
                    carrying out the plan.3 In the deliberations and discussions of this committee,
                    the scope of the task and procedure to be followed were gradually developed. By this time the 
                        United States
                     had been attacked, and preparations for war were going forward with speed and
                    determination. Members of the teaching and administrative staffs were leaving for service 
                  
                     1 The assistance rendered by Dr. Max P. Allen in the preparation of
                            this paper has been so extensive and helpful as to approach joint authorship.
                  
                     2
                            Laws of the State of Indiana, 1941, ch. CXCIV.
                  
                     3 H. B Wells to Clarence Jackson, March 5, 1942; H. B Wells to Dr. A.
                            L. Kohlmeier, March 6, 1942; undated memorandum of Professor George A. Steiner; A. L.
                            Kohlmeier to Professor George A. Steiner, April 1, 1942.
               
                     with the armed forces or other government agencies. The
                    personnel of the committee fluctuated so rapidly that it was scarcely the same committee for two
                    successive meetings. It was, nevertheless, quickly realized that the project had very large
                    possibilities and that it would require the cooperation of the various agencies and institutions of
                    the state, as well as numerous leaders of its business, agricultural, professional, and social
                    activities. Conferences were held in which Governor Schricker, Mr. Jackson, President Edward C.
                    Elliott of Purdue University, the late Dr. Christopher B. Coleman of the State Historical Society,
                    and other persons interested in the history of the state participated. As the plan gradually
                    developed, Indiana University was to take the lead in initiating and directing the work with the
                    cooperation of other institutions of the state.
            An announcement of the plans for the collection of material was made on April 14, 1942, which was
                    printed in whole or in part in a large number of newspapers throughout the state. 
                        The story of Indiana's participation in the war effort will be preserved for future
                            historians through a systematic plan for the collection of data under the guidance of
                            Indiana University, Governor Henry F. Schricker announced today after conferring with
                            President Herman B Wells, Civilian Defense Director Clarence A. Jackson and faculty members
                            of the University who are to work under the direction of Prof. A. L. Kohlmeier of the
                            Indiana University history department.
                        In selecting Indiana University to be the official historian of the state's role in
                            the war effort, Governor Schricker pointed out that the University can serve as a collection
                            point for pertinent war material gathered by all Indiana colleges and universities, from
                            libraries and local historical organizations, and from the various agencies of government.
                            He explained that this is an effort to prevent a recurrence of the condition during the last
                            war when a vast amount of material was destroyed by those who did not recognize its value
                            from an historical standpoint.
                        Preliminary steps have already been taken at the University and until such time as a
                            permanent staff for assembling the material is ready, the History Department will assume the
                            responsibility of caring for the various records. At the present the work of an I.U. faculty
                            committee named by President Wells is to outline the nature of the material desired and
                            then, working through the State Defense Council and other interested agencies, to publicize
                            the need for cooperation in collecting the material.4
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  4 The announcement continued as follows: "Although plans for the
                        future are indefinite, it is certain that a record of the state's part in the war will
                        be published at the close of hostilities and that this may
            
            
            The university committee began at once the collection of printed material under the supervision of
                    Professor Kohlmeier, head of the Department of History. The university committee assigned the work
                    of collection to Dr. John D. Barnhart, Associate Professor of History and editor of the Indiana Magazine of History. The committee continued in an advisory capacity with
                    Professor Kohlmeier as chairman.
            
               
                        also be carried out on a county basis. However, the greatest value appears to lie in the
                            opportunity to make this valuable source of material available in a convenient and usable
                            form for the assistance of history [sic] and other writers and research
                            students who want to make a thorough study of civilian life in this momentous period.
                        In attempting to locate all the data possible which will show the impact of the war on
                            various phases of activity in Indiana, the present plan is to house and index as much of
                            this as possible at 
                                Bloomington
                            . All contributing agencies will be asked to send their material there for
                            storage and classification. At the same time the University will also appeal to those who
                            are not able to turn over their material at present to preserve it so that it may be secured
                            at a later date when its value is entirely of a historical nature. This is particularly true
                            of records from defense production plants which are now military secrets but which in years
                            to come will give first-hand information on the thrilling story of the changeover from
                            domestic to war production and the conversion of peacetime industries into plants for the
                            production of war materials.
                        By directing the appeal for help to all industries engaged in war work, [to] all persons who
                            in trade or civic associations are familiar with the trend in their particular field of
                            activity and to various levels of government from the federal to the community, it is felt
                            that a sufficient mass of information can be obtained that it will shed light on the various
                            fields which have been tentatively selected for concentration. These will include: 
                        A. General industrial and other economic fields
                        B. Agriculture
                        C. Local government
                        D. Law
                        E. The fine arts (literature, music, visual arts)
                        F. Education
                        G. The press and public opinion
                        H. Geology (conservation)
                        I. Health
                        J. Sociology
                        K. Military
                     
                        
                        The practical value of this undertaking is stressed by state and university officials who
                            point out that their inability to locate many records and reports of happenings in the last
                            war has proven a distinct handicap. In the matter of local government, the text of various
                            city and town ordinances, the reports of various officials, and the complete story of some
                            of the projects which were attempted and the public reaction to them would be of great
                            assistance if they were available today.
                        The selection of Indiana University provides a central point for this collection and all
                            persons willing to donate material to a place where it will be used most effectively are
                            urged to contact Professor G. A. Steiner of the Indiana University School of Business who is
                            secretary of the University Committee which will be in complete charge until the permanent
                            staff is selected." News Release, April 14, 1942, and 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Hoosier-Sentinel, April 24, 1942.
                    
            
            
            Efforts were initiated to secure files of the publications of the various governmental agencies, such
                    as the Office of Price Administration and the Council of Civilian Defense; of government camps and
                    munition plants; of educational institutions, especially those undertaking any of the war training
                    programs; and of the manufacturing companies, particularly those engaged in war production.
            The General Assembly revised the State Defense Act in a measure signed by the governor on March 6,
                    1943. The Defense Council was directed to initiate a survey of the participation of the state in the
                    war effort and to prepare a written report to be submitted to the governor as soon as practicable
                    after the war. A progress report of this survey was to be made to the governor on April 1 each year.
                    The report was to include (1) the contribution of man power, (2) bond purchases and other
                    contributions by citizens of the state, (3) industrial development and production, (4) economic
                    changes, (5) agricultural development and production, (6) changes in government, and (7) social
                    changes and developments.5
            
            The new Administrative and Advisory Defense Councils, as provided for in the new Defense Act, met and
                    discussed the provision for a survey and report. It was decided to request the governor to appoint a
                    committee to be known as the Indiana War History Committee, which would be a part of the Defense
                    Council, and which would prepare a report of the state's contribution to the war and the
                    changes produced by the war in the life of the state. It was to encourage historical activity by
                    various agencies and officials and to prepare a history of Indiana's participation in and
                    contribution to the war.6
            
            
               
                  5 "(b) The council is directed to initiate a survey of
                        participation of the State of Indiana in the war effort and prepare a written report to be
                        submitted to the governor as soon as practicable after the war. On April 1 of each year after
                        1943, a progress report of such survey shall be submitted to the governor. This report shall
                        include, but shall not be limited to (1) the state contribution of man power; (2) bond purchases
                        and other contributions by citizens of the state; (3) industrial development and production; (4)
                        economic changes; (5) agricultural development and production; (6) changes in government; and
                        (7) social changes and developments." Laws of the State of Indiana,
                        1943, ch. CLIII, sec. 4b.
               
                  6". . . RESOLVED, that the Indiana State Advisory and
                        Administrative Councils believe that the most effective way to comply with Section 4 (b) is to
                        request the Governor to appoint a committee to be known as the Indiana War History Committee
                        which shall be a
            
            
            Further conferences were held with various leaders in trying to devise the best methods, to secure
                    the cooperation of prominent citizens and organizations of the state, and to obtain agreement upon
                    the type or procedure and organization. Governor Schricker appointed forty-two prominent Hoosiers to
                    serve as members of the Indiana War History Commission.7 The following were the
                    persons appointed: 
                  Mrs. Oscar A. Ahlgren, Recording Secretary, General Federation of Women's Clubs,
                            Whiting
                  Mr. J. Chester Allen, Coordinator, Negro Activities, Civilian Defense Council, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Mr. H. B. Allman, Superintendent of City Schools, 
                                Muncie
                            
                  
                  Miss Mary E. Bostwick, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star,
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Mr. Harold F. Brigham, Director, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Dr. Franklin L. Burdette, 
                                Butler
                             University, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Dr. Joseph C. Carroll, Crispus Attucks High School, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Mrs. Frederick Conkle, President, Indiana Congress of Parents and Teachers, 
                                Noblesville
                            
                  
                  Dr. Edward C. Elliott, President, Purdue University, 
                                Lafayette
                            
                  
                  Mr. Wray E. Fleming, Director, Hoosier State Press Association, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Mr. Edmond C. Foust, Editor, The Hoosier Farmer,
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Mr. Walter Frisbie, Secretary-Treasurer, Indiana State Industrial Union Council, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Col. Everett L. Gardner, Director, Indiana Employment Security Division, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Rabbi Maurice Goldblatt, 
                                Indianapolis
                             Hebrew Congregation, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Mr. Othniel Hitch, Attorney, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            
                        
                                    part of the Defense Council. The committee shall prepare a report of the
                                        State's contribution of man power, bond purchases and other
                                        contributions of citizens of the State, industrial development and production,
                                        economic changes, agricultural development and production, changes in government
                                        and social changes and development. The committee shall cooperate with and
                                        utilize the facilities of all state and local governmental agencies, educational
                                        institutions, libraries, business, scientific, professional, veteran, librarian,
                                        historical, agricultural, labor, and civic organizations in collecting and
                                        preserving the information and records necessary to complete the survey and
                                        report. It shall be the responsibility of the committee to encourage the various
                                        agencies and officials to maintain a current history of the various matters
                                        coming within the purview of the survey in order to facilitate the annual
                                        progress reports which shall be submitted to the Governor April 1, 1944.
                                    It shall be the further duty of the committee to encourage the writing of and
                                        publication of a history or histories of Indiana's participation and
                                        contribution to World War II." Minutes of the Meeting of Administrative
                                        and Advisory Defense Councils, April 18, 1943.
                                
                        
                           7 In appointing the members the governor used the word
                                    "commission" rather than "committee" as found in the resolution of
                                    the Defense Council. Since the change seemed agreeable to all, the term commission
                                    has been used.
                     
                        
                  
                  Col. Robinson Hitchcock, State Director, Indiana Selective Service, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Mrs. George W. Jaqua, Director, Women's Division, Indiana State Defense Council, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Dr. 0. P. Kretzman, President, 
                                Valparaiso
                             University, 
                                Valparaiso
                            
                  
                  Mr. Eli Lilly, President, Eli Lilly & Company, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Dr. Ross F. Lockridge, Director, 
                                New Harmony
                             Memorial Commission, 
                                Bloomington
                            
                  
                  Dr. Carleton B. McCulloch, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Dr. Clement T. Malan, State Superintendent of Public Instruction, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Mr. Carl H. Mullen, President, Indiana State Federation of Labor, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Mrs. Jeannette Covert Nolan, 
                                Bloomington
                            
                  
                  Mrs. Roscoe C. O'Byrne, 
                                Brookville
                            
                  
                  The Reverend Hugh O'Donnell, President, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame
                  Mr. Eugene C. Pulliam, State Chairman, Indiana War Finance Committee, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Dr. M. O. Ross, President, 
                                Butler
                             University, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Mr. Louis Ruthenburg, President, Servel, Inc., 
                                Evansville
                            
                  
                  Mr. Don Seism, Editor, 
                                Evansville
                            
                            Courier,
                            
                                Evansville
                            
                  
                  Judge Curtis G. Shake, Indiana Supreme Court, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Dr. Frank H. Sparks, President, 
                                Wabash
                             College, 
                                Crawfordsville
                            
                  
                  Mr. Burr S. Swezey, President, 
                                Lafayette
                             National Bank, 
                                Lafayette
                            
                  
                  Mr. Ralph N. Tirey, President, Indiana State Teachers College, 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                  
                  Mr. W. E. Wagoner, Acting President, Ball State Teachers College, 
                                Muncie
                            
                  
                  Dr. Louis A. Warren, Lincoln Foundation, Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                  
                  Mr. Frank White, Editor, The Hoosier Legionnaire,
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Dr. Clyde E. Wildman, President, DePauw University, 
                                Greencastle
                            
                  
               
                
            An organization meeting was held in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on December 16, 1943. President Wells was appointed chairman of the commission.
                    Governor Schricker was elected honorary chairman; Mr. Jackson, vice-chairman; and Professor
                    Barnhart, permanent secretary and director.
            An attractive pamphlet entitled Helping Record Indiana's Part in the War
                    was prepared with the assistance of the Director of Civilian Defense, and mailed to some twelve
                    thousand persons, asking for the cooperation of the public generally. Although the response
                    indicated that the people of the state were historically conscious, it demonstrated that more direct
                    methods of securing results would be necessary.
            A staff of workers was formed at the university to undertake more efficient methods of collection.
                    Dr. Max P. Allen and Professor J. Wymond French were loaned to the  commission by the departments of History and Journalism respectively.
                    They called upon the manufacturers of the state to learn the part they played in war production and
                    the effects of the war upon manufacturing. This work was begun on a small and experimental scale,
                    but was found to be productive of good results. It was extended over the southern half of the state
                    and to some extent into the northern half. The larger cities, however, seemed too big for this
                    procedure, so little was attempted in 
                        Evansville
                     or 
                        Indianapolis
                    , or other large communities in the northern part of the state. Dr. Donald F. Carmony
                    was added to the staff very shortly after this work was undertaken, and he and Professor French have
                    done most of it.8 Each staff representative visited a community and interviewed
                    the heads of the more important manufacturing establishments. An account of each interview was then
                    written, and sent to the official interviewed for correction or approval. When returned the report
                    was filed with the other records which the commission was collecting. Wherever possible,
                    supplementary printed material was also assembled and filed with the report.
            While this work was being done, an organization was formed to secure the assistance of a large number
                    of prominent leaders throughout the state. The work of collecting the records of Indiana's
                    part in the war and the effects of the war upon Indiana was divided into six divisions and a
                    chairman was appointed for each division. The work within each division was subdivided and assigned
                    to subchairmen. Serious efforts were made to bring into the organization individuals who were
                    personally acquainted with the phases of activity for which they were to collect the records.
                    Because of the importance of the commission's work, it was assumed that the cooperation of
                    outstanding Hoosiers could be secured. Generally persons connected with some organized activity were
                    chosen, because their positions in the organization often made available to them the means of
                    knowing what was going on, of collecting the records, and also of getting work done which others not
                    so connected could not possibly do even at considerable personal sacrifice. Much 
                  
                     8 Dr. Carmony on August 1, 1944, became executive secretary of the
                                    
                        South Bend-Mishawaka
                      center of the extension division of the
                            university and since then has been able to give but half of his time to the
                        commission.
               
                     care and time was spent in making these appointments. Seldom
                    have the requests for assistance been denied, even though many persons already overburdened with
                    other activities have been asked to participate in the work.
            Mr. Louis Ruthenburg, President of Servel, Inc., 
                        Evansville
                    , was appointed chairman of the Division of Economic Changes. His subchairmen and their
                    subdivisions are as follows: 
                        
                     Manufacturing, Mr. Harry Newcomb, Vice-President, Servel, Inc., 
                                Evansville
                            
                  
                        
                     Transportation and Communication, Mr. Herschel A. Hollopeter, Traffic
                            Director, Indiana State Chamber of Commerce, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                        
                     Mining, Mr. C. C. Lydick, Managing Director, Coal Trade Association of
                            Indiana, 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                  
                        
                     Merchandising and Distribution, Prof. Albert Haring, Marketing Division,
                            School of Business, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            
                  
                        
                     Banking and Finance, Mr. Don W1arrick, Secretary, Indiana Bankers'
                            Association, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                        
                     Taxation, Mr. Howard Friend, Research Director, Indiana State Chamber of
                            Commerce, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                        
                     War Bond Sales, Mr. Eugene C. Pulliam, State Chairman, Indiana War Finance
                            Committee, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                        
                     Public Utilities, Mr. C. V. Sorenson, Northern Indiana Public Service Co., 
                                Hammond
                            
                  
                        
                     Labor, Mr. Carl H. Mullen, President, Indiana State Federation of Labor, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ; Mr. Walter Frisbie, Secretary-Treasurer, Indiana State Industrial Union
                            Council, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ; Mr. Ray C. Gilbert, State Representative, Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ; Dr. Joseph A. Batchelor, School of Business, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            
                  
                        
                     Committee for Economic Development, Mr. Louis Ruthenburg, President,
                            Servel, Inc., 
                                Evansville
                            
                  
                    
            
            Dean Harry J. Reed of the Agricultural School, Purdue University, accepted the appointment as
                    chairman of the Division of Agricultural Developments. His subchairmen and their subdivisions
                    include the following: 
                        
                     Livestock and Poultry, Prof. Claude Harper, Animal Husbandry Department,
                            Purdue University; Prof. R. A. Wilhelm, Animal Husbandry Department, Purdue University
                        
                     Dairy Farms, Prof. E. A. Gannon, Smith Hall, Purdue University
                        
                     Vegetable Growers, Truck Gardeners, Victory Gardeners, Prof. F. C. Gaylord,
                            Horticultural Building, Purdue University
                        
                     Cereal Crops, Prof. K. E. Beeson, Agronomy Department, Purdue University
                        
                     Horticulture and Fruit Raising, Prof. 
                                Monroe
                             McCown, Horticultural Building, Purdue University
                        
                        
                            Conservation:
                        
                        
                     Forestry and Conservation, Mr. Hugh A. Barnhart, Director, Department of
                            Conservation, State House, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                        
                     Soil Conservation, Mr. Kenneth Welton, Soil Conservationist Service, U.S.
                            Department of Agriculture, 
                                Lafayette
                            
                  
                        
                     Farmers' Organizations and Cooperatives, Mr. Hassil Schenck, President,
                            Indiana Farm Bureau, Inc., 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                        
                     Agricultural Education, Mr. Harry F. Ainsworth, Supervisor, Agricultural
                            Education, State Department of Public Instruction, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                        
                     Finance, Labor, and Price Control, Dr. E. L. Butz, Agricultural Economics
                            Department, Purdue University
                        
                     Farm Security Administration, Dr. E. H. Shideler, Director, Farm Security
                            Administration, 
                                Lafayette
                            
                  
                        
                     Agricultural Adjustment Administration, Mr. L. M. Vogler, Chairman, Indiana
                            Agricultural Conservation Committee, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                        
                            Rural Electrification
                        
                    
            
            The Division of Armed Forces was placed under the chairmanship of the late Dr. Christopher B.
                    Coleman, Director of the Historical Bureau; and his subchairmen are as follows: 
                        
                            Induction of Indianans into the Services:
                            
                        
                           Selective Service, Col. Robinson Hitchcock, State Director,
                                    Selective Service, 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    
                        
                        
                           Navy Recruiting, Lt. Comdr. W. A. Chapman, Jr., Officer in
                                    Charge, U. S. Navy Recruiting Station, 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    
                        
                        
                           Marine Induction Recruiting, Major Ralph E. Boulton, Officer in
                                    Charge, U. S. Marine Corps, Induction and Recruiting District, 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    
                        
                     
                        
                        
                            Federal Military and Naval Establishments:
                            
                        
                           Fort Benjamin Harrison, Mrs. Filomena Gould, 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    
                                    News,
                                    
                                        Indianapolis
                                    
                        
                        
                           Camp Atterbury, Captain Wesley Jones, Public Relations Officer,
                                    Fifth Service Command, Camp Atterbury
                        
                           Quartermaster Supply Depot, Dr. A. D. Beeler, 
                                        Butler
                                     University, 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    
                        
                        
                           Stout Field, Lt. F. H. Baumann, Special Services Officer, Army
                                    Air Base, Stout Field, 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    
                        
                        
                                    Jefferson Proving Grounds
                                
                        
                                    Baer and Scott Fields
                                
                        
                                    Casad Army Ordnance Depot
                                
                        
                                    Freeman Field
                                    Dr. Louis Warren, Lincoln Foundation, Fort 
                                            Wayne
                                        
                           
                                
                        
                           
                                        
                                            Jeffersonville
                                        
                                    
                                    Quartermaster Depot, Dr. David Spence Hill
                        
                                    Army Air Forces, Specialist Depots
                                
                        
                           
                                        
                                            Indianapolis
                                        
                                    
                                    Naval Armory, Mr. Howard C. Caldwell, 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    
                        
                        
                           Bunker Hill Naval Air Station, Mr. Richard Simons, 
                                        Tipton
                                    
                                    Daily Tribune,
                                    
                                        Tipton
                                    
                        
                        
                        
                           Naval Ammunition Depot, Crane
                     
                        
                        
                     Individual Records: 
                        
                           Gold Star Honor Roll, Miss Dorothy Riker, Historical Bureau,
                                    State Library and Historical Building, 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    
                        
                        
                           Indiana Book of Merit (Citations and Decorations), Miss Nellie
                                    A. Robertson and Miss Dorothy Riker, Historical Bureau, State Library and Historical
                                    Building, 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    
                        
                        
                           Service Records of all Indianans in Army and Navy, Acting Adj.
                                    Gen. William P. Weimar, Adjutant General's Office, Indiana National Guard,
                                    State House, 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    
                        
                     
                  
                        
                     Demobilization and Rehabilitation: 
                        
                                    Army and Navy Training Schools in Colleges and Universities,
                                
                        Dr. Frank H. Sparks of the Division of Social Forces
                     
                  
                    
            
            The Division of Social Forces was assigned to Dr. Clyde E. Wildman, President, DePauw University, 
                        Greencastle
                    . The subdivisions and the respective subchairmen follow: 
                        
                     Education: 
                        
                           Colleges and Universities, Dr. Frank H. Sparks, President, 
                                        Wabash
                                     College, 
                                        Crawfordsville
                                    
                        
                        
                           Public and Parochial Schools, Mr. Robert H. Wyatt, Executive
                                    Secretary, Indiana State Teachers Association, 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    
                        
                     
                  
                        
                     Churches, The Rev. Dr. Ralph L. Holland, General Secretary, Church
                            Federation, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                        
                     Professions Other than Medicine, Mr. John S. Hastings, Director, Civilian
                            Defense Council, 
                                Daviess County
                            , 
                                Washington
                            
                  
                        
                     Medical Profession, Mr. Thomas A. Hendricks, Executive Secretary, Indiana
                            State Medical Association, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                        
                     Population Movements, Prof. George W. Starr, Director, Bureau of Business
                            Research, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            
                  
                        
                     Recreation, Mr. Paul V. Brown, Chairman, Board of Park Commissioners, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                        
                     Social Service Organizations, Mr. Virgil Sheppard, Executive Secretary,
                            American Red Cross, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                        
                     Governmental Welfare Organizations, Mr. John Barnett, Assistant Research
                            Director, Indiana State Chamber of Commerce, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                        
                     Women's Organizations and Clubs, Mrs. Oscar A. Ahlgren, Recording
                            Secretary, General Federation of Women's Clubs, Whiting
                        
                     Newspapers and Radio, Mr. Wray E. Fleming, Director, Hoosier State Press
                            Association, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                    
            
            The Division of Governmental and Political Changes is under the chairmanship of Dr. Ford P. Hall of
                    Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    . The work has been divided into the following subdivisions and assigned to the
                    following subchairmen: 
                        
                     Civilian Defense, Mr. Clarence A. Jackson, Director, Indiana State Defense
                            Council, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                        
                        
                     Office of Price Administration, Mr. James D. Strickland, District Director,
                            Office of Price Administration, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                        
                            Federal Agencies
                        
                        
                     State Agencies, Mr. Arthur Tiernan, Director of Public Relations, State
                            Department of Conservation, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                        
                     Local Agencies, Mr. Harold C. Feightner, Secretary, Indiana Brewers'
                            Association, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                        
                     Parties and Political Developments, Mr. Ralph F. Gates, 
                                Columbia City
                            ; Mr. Fred F. Bays, Sullivan
                        
                     Legislation, Mr. Herbert P. Kenney, Director, Indiana State Legislative
                            Bureau, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                        
                     Civic Organizations, Mr. William H. Book, Executive Vice-President, 
                                Indianapolis
                             Chamber of Commerce, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                        
                     Municipal Postwar Planning, Mr. Scott Chambers, Editor, CourierTimes,
                            
                                New Castle
                            
                  
                        
                     State Postwar Planning, Mr. Stephen C. Noland, Editor, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News,
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                    
            
            The Division of Libraries, Historical Societies, and Museums was created and placed in charge of Mr.
                    Harold F. Brigham, Director of the Indiana State Library. After getting the work started, it was
                    felt that it should be divided and that the libraries should alone remain in this division. It was
                    organized with this thought in mind and the chairmen and their subdivisions are as follows: 
                        
                            Public Libraries:
                            
                        
                           District 1, Mr. James A. Howard, Librarian, Public Library, 
                                        Hammond
                                    
                        
                        
                           District 2, Miss Ethel G. Baker, Librarian, Public Library, 
                                        South Bend
                                    
                        
                        
                           District 3, Mr. Rex. M. Potterf, Librarian, Public Library, Fort 
                                        Wayne
                                    
                        
                        
                           District 4, Mr. Lloyd W. Josselyn, Librarian, Public Library, 
                                        Lafayette
                                    
                        
                        
                           District 5, Miss Florence Crawford, Librarian, Public Library, 
                                        Terre Haute
                                    
                        
                        
                           District 6, Mr. Luther L. Dickerson, Librarian, Public Library, 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    
                        
                        
                           District 7, Mr. Walter H. Kaiser, Librarian, Public Library, 
                                        Muncie
                                    
                        
                        
                           District 8, Miss Ethel F. McCollough, Librarian, Public Library, 
                                        Evansville
                                    
                        
                        
                           District 9, Miss Amy Johnson, Librarian, Public Library, 
                                        Vevay
                                    
                        
                     
                        
                        
                            College and University Libraries:
                            
                        
                           North Region, Prof. William M. Hepburn, Librarian, Purdue
                                    University, 
                                        Lafayette
                                    
                        
                        
                           South Region, Dr. Robert A. Miller, Director of Libraries,
                                    Indiana University, 
                                        Bloomington
                                    
                        
                     
                        
                        
                     Special Libraries, Miss Ethel Cleland, Librarian, Business Branch, Public
                            Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                        
                        
                     Public Archives (State & Local), Miss Margaret Pierson, State
                            Archivist, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                        
                     State Library, Miss Nellie M. Coats, Chief Cataloguer, Indiana State
                            Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                    
            
            Division Six has a rather unique position in the work of the War History Commission. In general, it
                    has three special functions. First, it is guiding local libraries in making collections for their
                    own institutions. It is assisting in the solution of such problems as the scope of local
                    collections, housing, cooperation, avoidance of duplications, and the like. Secondly, it is
                    assisting the War History Commission in its task of collecting the records of the war. In order to
                    facilitate the work of the division, subchairmen have been chosen to represent different types of
                    libraries for different geographical areas. Finally, it is planning a state-wide comprehensive
                    bibliography of the materials which record Indiana's part in the war and the effect of the
                    war upon Indiana.
            While the officers and advisers of the commission were busy creating the organization of chairmen and
                    subchairmen and the staff was continuing its efforts to collect various types of records,
                    arrangements were made for the second meeting of the commission. A fairly elaborate but tentative
                    outline of the work to be done and a list of the persons who had agreed to assist was prepared. This
                    was embodied in a forty-page mimeographed pamphlet and distributed to the members of the commission
                    and to the chairmen and subchairmen of the organization. Because of the rapidly expanding work of
                    the commission, Dr. Allen was made assistant director.
            On June 9, 1944, there was held at the Memorial Union, Indiana University, the second meeting of the
                    Indiana War History Commission. The chaimen and subchairmen were also in attendance. The program was
                    as follows: 
                        
                            
                        
                           Conference of Division Chairmen
                           10:30 A.M.
                        
                        
                           Director John D. Barnhart, Presiding
                           
                        
                        
                           Business Meeting, Indiana War History Commission
                           11:00 A.M.
                        
                        
                           Chairman Herman B Wells, Presiding
                           
                        
                        
                           Luncheon, Indiana War History Commission, Division Chairmen and Subchairmen,
                                        and Other Guests
                           12:30 P.M.
                        
                        
                           Chairman Herman B Wells, Presiding
                           
                        
                     
                        
                        Program: 
                        "Recording War History in Other States," Dr. Lester J. Cappon,
                                         Chairman, Committee on State and Local War
                                    Records, American Association for State and Local History, University of 
                                        Virginia
                                    
                        
                        "Indiana's Opportunity," Vice-Chairman Clarence A.
                                    Jackson, Director, Indiana State Defense Council
                     
                        
                        Division Meetings- 2:00 P.M.
                        
                     Economic Changes, Chairman Louis Ruthenburg, Presiding
                     Agricultural Developments, Chairman Harry J. Reed, Presiding
                     Armed Forces, Chairman C. B. Coleman, Presiding
                     Governmental and Political Changes, Chairman Ford P. Hall, Presiding
                     Social Forces, Chairman Clyde E. Wildman, Presiding
                     Libraries, Historical Societies, and Museums, Chairman Harold F. Brigham,
                            Presiding
                  
                        Conference of Division Chairmen - 3:00 P.M.
                        
                     Director John D. Barnhart, Presiding
                  
                    
            
            In the first meeting of the day, procedures were outlined for the division chairmen who were to
                    preside at the later meetings of the subchairmen and to report at the final meeting in the
                    afternoon. The War History Commission assembled at eleven o'clock and approved the
                    "Progress Report," which the director had submitted to the Indiana State Defense
                    Council previous to April 1, 1944. The organization of chairmen and subchairmen that had been
                    established since the first meeting of the commission was also approved. An understanding was
                    reached to place the historical societies and museums in a seventh division. This has not been
                    carried out because of the death of Dr. Christopher B. Coleman, the secretary of the Indiana
                    Historical Society.
            Dr. Lester J. Cappon in his address at the luncheon meeting commented upon the enthusiasm of
                    Indianans for recording the history of this critical period. He stressed the importance of
                    collecting the records and of doing this before many of them were lost. The collection must be broad
                    and inclusive since total war involves all classes and activities. Mr. Jackson spoke briefly,
                    pointing out that the records are a means to the end and that the real target is a written history.
                    The aims and procedures, the work of the chairmen and subchairmen, the improvement of the outlines,
                    the nature of the records and documents, and the scope of the commission's task were
                    discussed in the section meetings of the chairmen and subchairmen. The final meeting of the division
                    chairmen brought together the experiences of the earlier meetings and concluded the work of the day.
            
            Letters were mailed from the director's office asking the assistance of various groups, such
                    as the manufacturers, the colleges and universities, the local unions of the A. F. of L. and the C.
                    I. 0., the county medical societies, and the newspapers. The compilation of a directory of Indiana
                    at war was also undertaken. This volume is planned to include a list of organizations, federal,
                    state, and local, involved in war work; a statement of their legal basis and purposes; and a list of
                    their officers. The history department of the university loaned the services of Professor Heber P.
                    Walker for the purpose of preparing this directory.
            The following subchairmen of the Division of Economic Changes have reported progress in getting their
                    work started: Mr. Harry Newcomb, manufacturing; Mr. Herschel A. Hollopeter, transportation and
                    communication; and Mr. C. V. Sorenson, public utilities. The activity, interest, and efficient
                    procedure of the chairman, Mr. Ruthenburg, has no doubt influenced his co-workers. In the Division
                    of Social Forces, of which President Wildman is chairman, Mr. Virgil Sheppard, social service
                    organizations, Mr. Wray E. Fleming, newspapers and radio, and President Sparks, colleges and
                    universities, have reported activity. The Division of Armed Forces has been handicapped seriously by
                    the death of Doctor Coleman, but work is proceeding. Dorothy Riker, Gold Star Honor Roll, has
                    published in the Indiana History Bulletin a "Gold Star Honor Roll,
                    December 7, 1941-June 1, 1944,"9 and Colonel Robinson Hitchcock,
                    Selective Service, has prepared a record entitled "Indiana State Headquarter's
                    Selective Service System." Many of the subchairmen have appointed committees to assist them
                    in their work.
            The Division of Agricultural Developments under Dean Harry J. Reed of Purdue, who is aided by a group
                    of subchairmen largely of the Purdue staff, was particularly well represented at the June 9th
                    meeting. The section meeting was presided over by President Edward C. Elliott of Purdue in the
                    absence of Dean Reed. The work of this divison is centered at Purdue where it is now in progress.
            The Division of Libraries has had the energetic direction of Mr. Harold F. Brigham, Director of the
                    State Library. He has described the work of the War History Commission in 
                  
                     9
                            Indiana History Bulletin (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1923-), XXI (1944), 383-414.
               
                     the Library Occurrent and has urged the
                    libraries of the state to undertake the task of collecting the records of their particular
                        localities.10 He has held a series of district meetings in which among other
                    problems the part of the libraries in preserving the records of the war was discussed.
            The commission has had the active cooperation of other organizations such as the Indiana State
                    Chamber of Commerce, the Indiana Limestone Institute, the Indiana Historical Society, the Indiana
                    State Library, the Indiana Committee for Economic Development, and the Chambers of Commerce in
                            
                  Connersville, Indianapolis, Lafayette, Lebanon, Shelbyville, Terre Haute, Vincennes
               , and numerous other communities. Much of this cooperation has
                    been due to the untiring efforts of Clarence A. Jackson, whose wide acquaintance and numerous
                    connections throughout the state have made his assistance invaluable.
            Federal, state, and local officials have repeatedly evidenced a sincere desire to facilitate the
                    activities of the commission. This is particularly true of Governor Henry F. Schricker who has made
                    every possible effort to forward the work. This same spirit has been manifested by the
                    representatives of semi-public and private organizations generally.
            From the members of the faculty and staff of Indiana University much aid has also been received.
                    Among these are President Wells and Professor Kohlmeier, whose counsel has always been available;
                    Mr. E. Ross Bartley of the University News Bureau, who has managed the publicity work of the
                    commission; and Dr. Joseph A. Batchelor, who has prepared a report on the limestone industry in the
                    war years.
            Since the commission's first purpose is the collection of the records which reveal
                    Indiana's part in the war and the effects of the war upon the state, the work of collecting
                    has been continuous from the very beginning. Among its manuscript collections are reports of some
                    233 manufacturing concerns during the war period, letters from Indiana colleges and universities in
                    regard to war programs and the effects of the war upon the institutions, a few letters from labor
                    leaders, and a group of miscellaneous correspondence. It has also collected the periodicals
                    published by approximately 
                  
                     10
                            Library Occurrent (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1906-), XIV, January-March, 1944, pp. 231-34; ibid., XIV,
                            April-June, 1944, pp. 260-67.
               
                     one hundred manufacturing and business concerns, by labor
                    organizations, by colleges and universities, by twenty-five military or naval organizations,
                    including camps, depots, and groups in training, and various government agencies. It has secured the
                    publications of the Indiana State Defense Council and a very large portion of the publications of
                    the Office of Price Administration as well as various other government agencies. Since the
                    University Library and the State Library maintain an extensive collection of newspapers, the
                    commission has not endeavored to duplicate this activity. It is expected that the collection will
                    contain before the work of the commission is complete more extensive manuscript accounts written by
                    various observers and participants in the war activity throughout the state.
            Plans are being completed at the present which should make considerable additions to the collections
                    of the commission and should activate many other phases of its work. An artistic folder is being
                    prepared which is designed to secure the stories of manufacturing plants and to solve the problem of
                    reaching numerous manufacturers in the larger cities of the state. Meetings are being arranged with
                    various subchairmen and their committees in order to hasten the collection of records in their
                    respective fields. Dr. Allen is engaged in this work of stimulating and coordinating the operation
                    of the entire organization. The services of other members of the staff in addition to those of Dr.
                    Allen are available to the chairmen and subchairmen in carrying out their assignments. It is
                    expected that all parts of the organization will be in operation very soon and that preliminary
                    reports will be made to the director by the first of the coming year. Such activities as are
                    unfinished because of the continuation of the war will be included in later or supplementary
                    reports.
         
         
         
            The Construction of the 
                        Michigan
                     Road, 1830-1840
            GENERAL PRATHER
            Only after considerable difficulties and struggles did the building of the 
                        Michigan
                     Road begin. Pressure of increased numbers of settlers not only resulted in the New
                    Purchase from the Indians but also demonstrated the need of roads on which to gain access to the
                    interior of the state which was not adequately served by navigable rivers. The Potawatomi and Miami
                    were persuaded by the 
                        United States
                     to cede a right-of-way and a section of land contiguous to the road for every mile of
                    the road constructed. In the legislature of the state there then ensued a struggle over the location
                    of the road, which delayed its construction for two years. The chief difficulty concerned the choice
                    of the southern terminus. Finally, however, the route was designated as beginning at 
                        Madison
                     on the Ohio River and as extending northward by way of
                            
                  Greensburg, Indianapolis
               , and 
                        South Bend
                     to 
                        Michigan City
                    .1
            
            Two weeks after the southern terminus was located at 
                        Madison
                    , the Assembly had ready for the governor's approval an act providing for the
                    opening of that part of the road lying between 
                        Madison
                     and the Wabash River.2 It was to be cut and
                    opened 100 feet wide, cleared of all logs, timber, and underbrush, leaving no stump more than one
                    foot above the level of the ground, and grubbed thirty feet wide in the center, in the same manner
                    as the National Road.
            Noah Noble of 
                        Marion County
                     was appointed the first contract commissioner. He was to have the road opened between
                    August 1, 1830, and November 1, 1831, and to make a complete report in the first week of the next
                    Assembly. He was to give bond for $50,000 and to receive a salary of $2 per
                    day, to be paid from the treasury.
            The road was to be laid off in districts of not more than four miles in length beginning at 
                        Madison
                    ; and after three weeks' notice in the neighborhood of each district, contracts were to
                    be let to the lowest bidder. The whole 
                  
                     1 See Geneal Prather, "The Struggle for the 
                                Michigan
                             Road," Indiana Magazine of History (
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, 1905-), XXXIX (1943), 1-25. Both articles were prepared in seminars
                            in Indiana University under the direction of Professor R. Carlyle Buley. -Ed.
                  
                     2
                            Laws of the State of Indiana, 1829-1830, ch. LXX, sec. 1.
               
                     length was to be under contract by the third Monday in July,
                    1830. Contractors were to be paid with certificates redeemable out of the proceeds of the 
                        Michigan
                     Road lands, and these certificates were acceptable as payment for said lands. The
                    contractors were required to give bond for double the amount of their contracts. The secretary of
                    state was required to make the certificates which were to be signed by Noble and attested by the
                    secretary.
            Noble, successor to James B. Ray as governor of Indiana, was a brother of James Noble, then 
                        United States
                     senator. Governor Ray was on bad terms with Senator Noble at the time and opposed
                    Noah's appointment as commissioner. Noah explained in an article in the Indiana Journal that his brother became "obnoxious" to Ray when the latter wanted
                    James to resign from the Senate to be a candidate for governor, which kind offer James was
                    "so obstinate" as to decline.3 A denunciatory battle was waged in the
                    papers between Governor Ray and Senator Noble.4
            
            When the road bill came from the Senate, the House substituted the name of Noah Noble for Robert
                    Branham of 
                        Jefferson County
                     for commissioner. Governor Ray lobbied against the change and, when he signed the bill,
                    wrote an abusive note on the back which drew a sharp retort from the Senate.5
            
            Before Noble could let contracts, the commissioners named in the act of January 13 had to make the
                    survey of the route from 
                        Madison
                     to 
                        Greensburg
                    . The commissioners-Samuel Hanna of 
                        Wayne County
                    , William Polke of 
                        Knox County
                    , and Abraham McClelland of 
                        Sullivan County
                    -were to employ a surveyor and other assistants if necessary and make any changes in the
                    route they might think needed after examining the road. They were to take releases of the various
                    individuals through whose land the road ran of all damages which should be sustained, to gain
                    consent from landowners along the road to use road material, and to make plats and notes of the
                    survey. As soon as they had surveyed the 
                  Madison-Greensburg
                route,
                    they were, upon notification of the governor, to go north of the 
                        Wabash
                     to start selection 
                  
                     3
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana Journal, February 25, 1830.
                  
                     4
                            
                                Madison
                            , Indiana Republican, January 20, 1830.
                  
                     5 Adam Leonard, "Personal Politics in Indiana,
                            1816-1840," Indiana Magazine of History, XIX (1923),
                        253-54.
               
                     of the lands granted by the treaty for the construction of the
                    road. If the general government refused to do so, they were to survey the lands.6
            
            The survey was begun on May 17 and finished June 1. The commissioners filed their plats and notes in
                    the clerk's offices of Jefferson and 
                        Decatur counties
                     and awaited word from Governor Ray before starting the selection of lands. The road at 
                        Madison
                     was laid off on the south side of the hill north of 
                        Madison
                     and ran almost due north thirty miles where it intersected the 
                        Greensburg
                     road near a Mr. Vawter's,7 then continued northwest by way
                    of Napoleon through 
                        Greensburg
                     and 
                        Shelbyville
                     to 
                        Indianapolis
                    . From 
                        Greensburg
                     to 
                        Indianapolis
                     the road followed the 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     state road. The total distance from 
                        Madison
                     to 
                        Indianapolis
                     was ninety-four miles.
            Commissioners Hanna, Polke, and McClelland met in 
                        Logansport
                     on October 1, expecting to receive instructions from Governor Ray to proceed to select
                    the lands. General 
                        Tipton
                     notified them that he had been instructed by the general government to accompany them
                    to prevent difficulties with the Indians; and he suggested that, if they wished to secure good
                    lands, they would have to proceed before the most valuable lands on the 
                        Wabash
                     and Eel rivers were advertised and offered for sale by the general government in
                    October. After waiting nearly a month for their instructions from Governor Ray, one of the
                    commissioners returned to 
                        Indianapolis
                     to see the governor. In the absence of the governor, the secretary of state advised the
                    commissioners to proceed on the authority of the letters of the previous secretary of war, James
                    Barbour. Thus, in an endeavor to select as many sections as they could before the October land sale,
                    the three commissioners proceeded to select the contiguous sections in the Indian country and some
                    sections on Eel River. The Indians objected to giving sections for each mile of the road south of
                    the 
                        Wabash
                    ; and as the commissioners were acting without official instructions, they pursued a
                    policy of conciliation toward the Indians. On September 30, while selecting lands in the Indian
                    country, the commissioners received instructions from Governor Ray 
                  
                     6
                            Laws of the State of Indiana, 1829-1830, ch. LXIX, secs. 1-2, 8.
                  
                     7
                            
                                Madison
                            , Indiana Republican, June 3, 1830; Governor's
                            Message, Journal of the House of Representatives of Indiana, 1830-1831, p.
                            23.
               
                     to proceed though he still had no reply from 
                        Washington
                    . Because of objections of the Indians, however, the commissioners halted selections of
                    non-contiguous sections in the Indian country in the belief that title to the remainder of the
                    Indian lands would soon be extinguished and more valuable selections might then be made.8 The commissioners were not ready to make their report by the first of December
                    and were granted an extension of ten days in which to file their report.9
            
            In an effort to have made as many land selections as possible before the 
                        United States
                     land sales in October, 1830, and thereby avoid the necessity of taking second choice
                    land, Governor Ray wrote Secretary of War John H. Eaton on February 10, as required by the act of
                    January 13, to find when, by whom, and how the lands were to be surveyed.10
            
            Having received no reply, Governor Ray again wrote on July 8, stating the board of commissioners were
                    awaiting the reply and that the contracts for work on the land would be let in a few days in faith
                    that the lands in question would be surveyed and selected by December 1.11
            
            On September 6, still without a reply from the secretary of war, Ray wrote the commissioners and
                    explained that he had not notified them to start the survey and selection of lands because he did
                    not have authority to act. According to the law, if the 
                        United States
                     refused to make the survey, he was to notify the commissioners to proceed; but the 
                        United States
                     had neither refused nor agreed. He suggested, however, that without specific authority,
                    they might go ahead with the survey and selection in the hope that their action would be
                        approved.12
            
            Governor Ray was blamed for the delay in getting the land surveyed, thereby holding up the sale of
                    contracts to open the road. He was said to have been away from his office for four or five weeks in
                    August and September, and if it were now too late to comply with his duty as prescribed in 
                  
                     8 Report of the Commissioner, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana Journal, January 1, 1831.
                  
                     9
                            Indiana Special Acts, 1830-1831, 15 Sess., ch. CXXVI.
                  
                     10 Jonathan B. Ray to John H. Eaton, February 10, 1830, Journal of the House of Representatives of Indiana, 1830-1831, p. 46.
                  
                     11
                            Ibid., 1830-1831, p. 46.
                  
                     12
                            Ibid., 1830-1831, p. 49.
               
                     the 
                        Michigan
                     Road law, the state might sustain a loss which could not easily be repaired.13
            
            Because of the wide general interest in the new lands in the upper part of the state, the newspapers
                    followed the progress of the survey closely. The Indiana Journal reported that
                        
                        The Commissioners engaged in selecting lands for this road have made a rapid march, locating
                            about 50 sections on Eel River, and. . . had selected, it was understood, 80 or 90 sections
                            in the 
                                Crawfordsville
                             and Fort 
                                Wayne
                             districts, a report of which was forwarded to those land offices.
                    
            
            It was said that the commissioners were making an effort to select as many sections as possible
                    before the government land sale in October.14 The Western Sun
                    gave a similar report: 
                        It is thought most likely, that the commissioners will not be able to complete all the duties
                            assigned them, before the meeting of the Legislature, but selections already made,. . .
                            will. . . meet contracts entered into; and. . . it is probable that better land may be had
                            after the Potawattimie title is extinguished. The surveys in the Indian country . . . are
                            likely to be completed this fall. . . .15
                  
                    
            
            Governor Ray again wrote Secretary Eaton on November 1, asking whether his first two letters had been
                        received;16 but before receiving any information from that correspondence,
                    the state received disappointing news concerning the 
                        Michigan
                     Road lands through another channel. The commissioners were notified by the general land
                    office in a communication dated October 11, 1830, that the selections they had already made and
                    forwarded to that office had been rejected.
            The first public notice of this decision by the general land office was found in a letter dated
                    November 2, signed by Samuel Milroy of the 
                        Crawfordsville
                     land office and published in the Indiana Journal. It stated that
                    according to the construction placed on the Potawatomi Treaty by the land office, the state would
                    have to select the 
                        Michigan
                     Road 
                  
                     13
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana Journal, September 8, 1830.
                  
                     14
                            Ibid., November 3, 1830, from 
                                Marion
                            , Indiana, Times, October 1, 1830.
                  
                     15
                            
                                Vincennes
                            , Indiana, Western Sun, October 30, 1830, from Miami Times, n. d.
                  
                     16
                            Journal of the House of Representatives of Indiana, 1830-1831, pp.
                        46-48.
               
                     lands from unceded Indian lands and not from any of the lands
                    ceded by Article One of the treaty. The district land office had been ordered by the office in 
                        Washington
                     not to withhold from public sale any lands selected by the state for the 
                        Michigan
                     Road.17
            
            The commissioners submitted to the Assembly the letter in which they had received this
                        announcement.18 Accompanying this letter was one from Samuel D. Ingham,
                    secretary of the treasury, in which he approved the views of the land office and agreed on this
                    interpretation of the treaty.19
            
            This difference of opinion over the interpretation of the Potawatomi Treaty precipitated another
                    major contention around the 
                        Michigan
                     Road. The dispute was between the state and national government and did not create so
                    much internal strife as had the southern terminus question. The state stood to lose considerably,
                    and many made of it an opportunity to criticize Governor Ray. He had already been accused of
                    neglecting his duty under the law which required him to secure information for the commissioners
                    from the general government. After he had submitted the record of his attempted correspondence with
                    Secretary Eaton to the Assembly,20 that attack lost effect. Two days after his
                    first report to the Assembly, on December 9, he received Eaton's belated reply. This merely
                    acknowledged Ray's correspondence and said that the subject of his communication had been
                    laid before the general land office where it would receive the "attention the nature of the
                    case requires."21 The reply did not furnish the information requested,
                    but served only to show that Governor Ray had tried to comply with his duty. The state, as has been
                    related, was already well aware of the decision of the land office.
            As Governor Ray had served on the treaty-making commission and was, according to the Cass and 
                        Tipton
                     letters, primarily responsible for writing the article making provision for the road,
                    he was now held to blame for its being 
                  
                     17
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana Journal, November 17, 1830, from Indiana Democrat, n. d.
                  
                     18 John M. Moore, Acting Commissioner, to General Land Office, October
                            11, 1830, Journal of the House of Representatives of Indiana, 1830-1831,
                            pp. 68-69.
                  
                     19
                            Ibid., 1830-1831, pp. 70-71.
                  
                     20
                            Ibid., 1830-1831, p. 46.
                  
                     21
                            Ibid., 1830-1831, pp. 65-66.
               
                     constructed in such a way that it might be interpreted as a
                    separate and distinct cession. He now submitted these letters, obtained in 1827 to answer charges
                    against his conduct at the treaty council, to the Assembly in an endeavor to prove that the road
                    provision entered as much into the calculations of all parties as any other portion of the
                    instrument.
            The only indication in the wording of the treaty that the road provision in Article Two was
                    considered a part of the whole was the inclusion in Article One of the cession of the 10-mile strip
                    on Lake Michigan, along with the cession of the land along the 
                        Wabash
                    . The 10-mile strip on the lake was obviously intended to allow for the location of
                    harbor facilities for the road. Article Three provided payment to the Indians specifically for the
                    cessions of Article One. The only "payment" to the Potawatomi specified for the road grant,
                    which could not possibly have amounted to less than 225 sections of land, was the "benefit"
                    to themselves "for traveling and increasing the value of their remaining country."
                    Ironically, twelve years later they were being forcibly escorted out of their "remaining
                    country" over the 
                        Michigan
                     Road by one of the three commissioners.
            In Governor Ray's message to the Assembly in 1830, he said that the separate cession opinion
                    of the treaty was in complete contrast to that given the state by the previous secretary of war and
                    that it was entirely out of record with the meaning of the treaty. About two hundred sections of
                    land had already been selected and reported to the 
                        United States
                     land office, he said, and awaited the order of the legislature to be sold. There were
                    enough undisputed sections to take care of the expectations of contractors.22
                    "It was not fair to the State," Ray continued, "not to be allowed to
                    benefit from the increased value of the lands all along the road to the 
                        Wabash
                    -not merely about half the distance, in unceded Indian country." There were
                    actually only about thirty miles of the road north of the 
                        Wabash
                     now in unceded territory, since the Treaty of Carey's Mission of 1828. After
                    checking at the land offices the following year, Polke found that about ten thousand acres of the
                    most desirable lands had been lost to the state in the government land sales.23
            
            
               
                  22 Governor's Message, ibid., 1830-1831, pp.
                        10-36.
               
                  23 Report of the Commissioner, ibid., 1830-1831, App.
                    D.
            
            
            Noble was unable to begin his task until the first of June because Hanna, Polke, and McClelland had
                    not finished their survey of the 
                  Madison-Greensburg
                route. Beginning at 
                        Madison
                    , he laid off the road in one-mile sections. The whole length was to be under contract
                    by the third Monday in July, so he was not able to survey all the way to the 
                        Wabash
                     and return in time to advertise and let contracts. Therefore, he prepared notices,
                    estimating the number of sections to be sold at each place.24
            
            On August 18, 1830, he wrote a report for publication to Messrs. Douglas and McGuire of the Indiana Journal. This letter and his official report to the Assembly furnish one
                    of the clearest reports on the 
                        Michigan
                     Road. He had finished the contracting on July 19, but his health had prevented his
                    making a satisfactory report earlier. In letting the contracts for the 163 miles from 
                        Madison
                     to 
                        Logansport
                    , the 
                        Michigan
                     Road fund had been made liable for the sum of $62,070.30.
            The bidding was good at most places. At 
                        Madison
                    , Mr. Means' and Captain Lowe's, there were few bidders, and this led to higher
                    averages and to bids in larger units being given to "capitalists." Where there
                    were more bidders and interest was higher, the cost was greatly reduced. The grubbing of heavy
                    timber deterred many of the smaller bidders and farmers. The bids were higher at 
                        Logansport
                     than anywhere else due to the "extensive population which had set down in the
                    midst of the unsold public lands where provisions and labor were unusually high."
            The bids were higher than those on the National Road in the state, which had averaged $220
                    per mile. Noble reported that some of the contractors of the National Road, "with other gentlemen
                    from foreign counties," attended the sales along the line and bid for the whole number of
                    sections that were offered at each place. In a few instances they were the successful competitors.
                    For accepting and giving preference to their bids when they were the lowest, some exceptions were
                    taken to Noble's course.
            Governor Ray said the prices were higher than those on the National Road for two reasons: the use of
                    scrip without any certainty of redemption, and the fact that the contracts had been let by the
                    commissioner in larger units than 
                  
                     24 Report of the Commissioner, ibid., 1830-1831, pp.
                            92-93.
               
                     necessary, thus favoring the wealthy contractor and capitalist.
                    The latter, he said, had benefitted to the extent of 30 per cent or more at the expense of the
                    state. It was for this reason he had assented reluctantly to the law and since had regretted his
                        consent.25
            
            The Senate Committee on Roads investigated the governor's charge of bad management by the
                    contract commissioner. They called on Noble and, after examining his records, adopted a resolution
                    that the commissioner had done his duty and produced a saving of the fund to the state.26
            
            After the government land offices had in October rejected the state's land selections, Noble
                    reported that the action in refusing to recognize the lands selected by the commissioners and in
                    selling some of these lands had caused difficulty among the contractors and hands of the road. They
                    became discouraged at the prospects of redeeming their script in chosen lands and many quit work.27
            
            In a joint resolution, approved January 29, 1831, the Assembly addressed to Congress its grievances
                    on the interpretation given the Potawatomi Treaty by the general land office and complained that it
                    was a violation of the state's rights according to the treaty and under the Act of Congress
                    of March 2, 1827, which confirmed the road grant to the state. The state was entitled, it said, to
                    choose the most practicable route and select lands along the route or from any of those ceded in
                    Article One of that treaty. Some criticism had been made in the land office of the adoption by the
                    state of the longer survey of the road between the 
                        Wabash
                     and the lake. Considerable space was given in the resolution to the explanation of the
                    adoption of the indirect route. No complete survey of the road had ever been furnished to the land
                    office, and the Assembly had earlier in December provided that a copy of the plat and field notes of
                    the road showing its length be supplied to 
                  
                     25 Governor's Message, ibid., 1830-1831, p.
                            20.
                  
                     26
                            Journal of the Senate of Indiana, 1830-1831, pp. 144-45. To justify the
                            "sweeping bids," Noble made a comparison with the lowest offers made for
                            each mile by individuals who wanted only a mile and found a saving of $5,611. The
                            commissioner thought this should offset any criticism of "several individuals" who
                            opposed his decision in accepting the contracts. See 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana Journal, August 18, 1830.
                  
                     27 Report of the Commissioner, Journal of the House of
                                Representatives of Indiana, 1830-1831, p. 94.
               
                     the general land offices by the secretary of state. Polke was
                    to see that a map of the route through the territory unsurveyed by the 
                        United States
                     was supplied to the surveyor-general's office.28 The
                    resolution to Congress concluded with a request that the proceeds of lands already sold be refunded
                    to Commissioner Noble.29
            
            Purchasers at government land sales took advantage of the chance to buy along the proposed route of
                    the road, particularly in the 10-mile strip between the 
                        St. Joseph
                     and Lake Michigan. Settlers and speculators preferred to buy in
                    the ceded areas. Thus the 
                        United States
                     was gaining while the state was losing most of the benefit from the increased value of
                    the land along the road. To make the matter worse, it was becoming more difficult to secure
                    permission from the Potawatomi to make other selections in the Indian country.
            After addressing its grievances to Congress, the Assembly turned to the task of opening the remainder
                    of the road from the 
                        Wabash
                     to the lake. It was provided that the portion of the road between the town of 
                        Logansport
                     and the county seat of 
                        St. Joseph County
                     should be cut and opened sixty-six feet wide as soon as funds were obtained through the
                    sale of 
                        Michigan
                     Road lands and should be finished as soon as convenient. The reduction from 100 to 66
                    feet in the width of the road was made to lower the prices of the contracts which had been found to
                    be much higher in the district of the heavy upstate timber. No contract was to be let for more than
                    $150 per mile. The conditions of the fund made it necessary not to place a definite limit
                    on the time for having the road open.
            This part of the road was to be cut and cleared in the same manner as the southern part; the creek
                    banks were to be graded, the swamps and mud causewayed, and the road made passable for wagons. Noble
                    was continued as contract commissioner and was given power to make such slight changes in the
                    location of the road as should not increase the distance. He was to begin at 
                        Logansport
                     and lay the road off in districts of not more than four miles; then he was to give four
                    weeks' notice at 
                        Logansport
                     and the county seat of 
                        St. Joseph County
                     before letting contracts 
                  
                     28
                            Indiana Special Acts, 1830-1831, 15 Sess., ch. CXXXIII.
                  
                     29
                            Ibid., 1830-1831, 15 Sess., ch. CXLVIII.
               
                     at public outcry to the lowest bidder. The whole was to be
                    under contract by the fourth Monday of August, 1831, if funds were available.
            Although the price per contract mile was limited, there again was no provision to limit the letting
                    of contracts in large units, and Governor Ray refused to approve the act but allowed it to become a
                    law automatically after he retained it five days. Whether or not his lack of friendship for the
                    Noble family influenced his action would be conjecture.
            Contractors were to be paid in the same manner as before. Noble's bond was
                    $25,000, and each contractor was required to give bond for double his contract.30
            
            Almost at the same time, the Assembly passed one of the longest acts dealing with the 
                        Michigan
                     Road. It was in seventeen sections, entitled "An Act concerning 
                        Michigan
                     Road Script, 
                        Michigan
                     Road Lands, and for other purposes," and was approved February 4, 1831. James
                    Morrison, secretary of state, and Noble were authorized to issue smaller units of
                    script-$100 or less if necessary. The work of the Board of Commissioners under the act of
                    January 29, 1830, was ratified; the board was abolished, and William Polke was made sole
                    commissioner to carry out the provisions of both the former and the new act.
            Polke was required to complete the selecting, surveying, marking, and numbering of the lands
                    mentioned in the act of 1830, and to make five complete maps, plats, and descriptions of all said
                    lands, showing the numbers, townships, ranges, water courses, and other necessary description
                    including the lands already selected and surveyed, as well as the lands to be thereafter selected,
                    and also to include "such lands of the 
                        United States
                     as may have been or may hereafter be selected, and sanctioned by the general
                    government." These plats and maps were to be deposited by the commissioner as follows: one
                    to the secretary of the treasury of the 
                        United States
                    ; one to each of the offices of secretary, auditor, and treasurer of state; and one for
                    his own use as commissioner.
            The commissioner was required to offer for sale at 
                        Logansport
                     at public auction on the third Monday in October in half-quarter sections all those
                    lands selected, or to 
                  
                     30
                            Ibid., 1830-1831, 15 Sess., ch. LXXIII.
               
                     be selected in the Indian country or in sanctioned government
                    lands. All the quarter sections adjoining the road were to be sold in north and south halves, and
                    all the other quarter sections were to be sold in east and west halves. Three months' notice of this
                    sale was to be given in one newspaper in 
                  Cincinnati,
                            Madison, Lawrenceburg, Vincennes, Indianapolis, Lafayette
               , and in the 
                  
                            Ohio
                         State Journal of 
                  Columbus,
                            Ohio
               .
            All scrip was to be accepted as cash for lands. The sales were to continue from day to day until all
                    lands had been offered or sold. A complete record of tracts sold, the purchaser and the amount, was
                    to be kept by the commissioner, and copies were to be furnished to the auditor and treasurer of
                    state within thirty days after the sale. Each purchaser was to be given an official certificate
                    showing the number and description of his land, and this would entitle him to a patent from the
                    state, signed by the governor and countersigned by the secretary of state.
            If the commissioner discovered any combination between purchasers to cause any tract to sell for less
                    than its true value, he was authorized to withhold it from sale. No lands were to sell for less than
                    $1.25 per acre, and the commissioner was not permitted to purchase directly or indirectly
                    more than one section.
            Commissioner Polke was to open immediately a correspondence with the general land office on the
                    subject of the land titles, and to procure the necessary further survey of the land by the general
                        government.31 This he did as soon as he learned of his appointment.32
            
            By an act approved March 2, 1831, Congress redressed the grievance of the state on the road land
                    grant. The selections already made insofar as they remained unsold were sanctioned and confirmed. In
                    lieu of lands already sold by the 
                        United States
                    , other lands could be selected under the same authority as the first. The state was
                    required to furnish to the general land office an accurate survey and plat of the entire road, and
                    the land offices at 
                        Crawfordsville
                     and Fort 
                        Wayne
                     were to be notified of the new selections. No further sales would be made.33
            
            
               
                  31
                        Ibid., 1830-1831, 15 Sess., ch. LXXII.
               
                  32 Report of the Commissioner, Journal of the House of
                            Representatives of Indiana, 1831-1832, App. D.
               
                  33
                        
                     
                                United States
                             Statutes at Large, IV, 473.
            
            
            This act was an immense relief to the state. If the decision of the land office and treasury
                    department had stood and the state had been compelled to select all lands from Indian country, they
                    could not have sold the lands to the best advantage until the Potawatomi were removed from the state
                    in 1838; and the uncertainty of the land question would have rendered the contracting more expensive
                    and less certain of completion. Not more than sixteen sections of those selected in government lands
                    were lost, and the financial outlook for the road was more promising. Final tabulations show that
                    approximately half or more of the 267 sections acquired in the grant were located in 
                        United States
                     lands.
            On seeing the Act of Congress which confirmed the selections of land, Polke wrote General 
                        Tipton
                     on April 2, 1831. He sent a copy of the letter to the general land office and then
                    proceeded to 
                        Indianapolis
                     to file his bond. In 
                        Indianapolis
                     he learned that the law providing for his appointment had not been published by the
                    authority of the General Assembly but had been published in an 
                        Indianapolis
                     paper by request of a private person. As soon as the governer returned to 
                        Indianapolis
                     to approve his bond, Commissioner Polke proceeded as if the law were in force. He
                    employed Robert Brackinridge to make a complete set of maps and field notes with lands selected and
                    parts sold to enable him to complete the selection and prepare for the sale.
            In reply to his letter of April 2, Polke received from John M. Moore, acting commissioner of the
                    general land office, instructions for completing the land survey and selection. He was advised that
                    it was first necessary that he file in that office an accurate survey and plat of the entire road,
                    showing connections with the sectional surveys. The map and field notes sent to the land office by
                    the secretary of state the preceding winter were said not to meet the requirements of the Act of
                    Congress or the law of the state.
            Though the lands already selected in ceded territory had been confirmed by the Act of Congress on
                    March 2 the land office still requested that all new selections must come out of the Indian lands in
                    the state and that the width of 100 feet ceded for the road was in addition to the contiguous
                    section for each mile only so far as it passed through  lands
                    belonging to the Potawatomi after 1826. The contiguous sections had to be selected entire, except
                    where fractions would make the whole more compact.
            Upon receipt of these instructions, Polke employed a surveyor and necessary hands. He spent a few
                    days exploring the Indian country in order to make judicious selections. When he returned from the
                    lake, he wrote 
                        Tipton
                     advising him of the land office instructions and asked if he could conciliate the
                    Indians so that no difficulties would arise between the 
                        United States
                     and the Indians.
            
               
                        Tipton
                     replied that the selections had been made in 
                        strict conformity to the understanding of the Indians at the treaty, and of those who made
                            the contract with them, and that any further selection of lands out of the Indian country
                            without their approbation will distress them.
                     Since there was no other alternative, he would render all assistance in his power to
                    procure the lands asked for. He expressed the belief that the 
                        United States
                     would "no doubt pay the Indians for these lands, if they were not embraced in
                    the former cession made by them."
            While 
                        Tipton
                     was arranging for a council with the Indians, Polke made the survey of the road south
                    of 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                        Greensburg
                     in order to have a map of the entire road for the general land office. On July 2, 1831,
                    he sent a copy of all field notes and maps of the road to that office.
            
               
                        Tipton
                     notified him that the council would be held on August 20 at the Potawatomi Mills, near
                    the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     in Indian country. This mill was the one built by the government for the Indians
                    according to the terms of the treaty of 1826, and was located at the outlet of Manitou Lake.34 They succeeded on the last day of August in getting partial consent from the
                    Indians to select the required number of sections north of the Kankakee in the neighborhood of the
                    Potawatomi residing near the 
                        Michigan
                     Territory line.
            To obtain consent of the Indians in the immediate vicinity of the lands, 
                        Tipton
                     dispatched General M. G. Grover, sub-agent and an interpreter with Polke, with a letter
                    to Colonel James Stewart, agent at Carey Mission in the 
                        Michigan
                     Territory, with a request that he assist in procuring the consent of the Indians. To
                    aid the mission, a great barbecaue 
                  
                     34 Daniel McDonald, A Twentieth Century History of 
                                    Marshall County
                                
                      (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1908), I, 55-56.
               
                     and "firewater" feast was held by arrangement with
                    Chandonnais, a Potawatomi; and at a council on September 4, after considerable discussion, the
                    Indians agreed not to molest the surveyors but wished it distinctly understood that they did not
                    give their consent to the selections being made in their country.35 They still
                    objected to granting land for the road south of the 
                        Wabash
                    . Polke reported that without the aid of 
                        Tipton
                    , Grover, and Stewart, the lands selected could not have been obtained.
            As soon as the surveying was finished, Polke prepared books and maps for the land sales. First,
                    however, he checked the selections at the 
                        Crawfordsville
                     land office on September 30, to avoid selecting previously sold lands. On October 4 all
                    books and maps were ready for the sales. There remained to be surveyed only about two sections to
                    complete the entire road grant. There had been 13,325.46 acres selected under the Act of Congress of
                    March 2, 1831. The first sale of 
                        Michigan
                     Road lands in October, 1831, amounted to 29,769.53 acres, and the average price per
                    acre was $1.65.36
            
            It was Polke's opinion that the price of land would increase greatly as soon as the road was
                    opened. Much superior land was yet to be sold.37 Only 29,769 acres had been sold
                    out of the total grant estimated at 168,960 acres, leaving 139,191 acres to be sold. Most of the
                    lands sold for scrip, not enough cash being available to meet the expenses of the commissioner.
                    Almost all the scrip that Noble had issued was exchanged for land at the first sale.
            Turning in his statement at the same time as Polke, Noble said that had he followed the law, only
                    $15,000 worth of scrip would have been issued. The land sales had been ordered for one
                    month before the contracts of the undertakers were to expire, and few contractors had their work
                    finished so they could collect their scrip. Noble issued $49,000 in scrip to them in
                    proportion to the amount of work done, to be used in competition at the sales.
            The contractors had progressed as rapidly as the frequent rains of the summer and autumn permitted,
                    and but for early winter he believed few sections would have remained unfinished 
                  
                     35 Rollo B. Oglesbee and Albert Hale, History of 
                                    Michigan City
                                
                      (
                                La Porte
                            , 1908), 73.
                  
                     36 Report of the Commissioner, Journal of the House of
                                Representatives of Indiana, 1831-1832, App. D.
                  
                     37
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana Journal, December 31, 1831.
               
                     on November 30, the day the work was to have been completed.
                    Some contractors had been driven from the field by the weather, while others continued the work at
                    the sacrifice of their resources and health. The commissioner, therefore, asked the
                    "indulgence" of the Assembly for the contractors. The Assembly granted them seven
                    additional months from November 30 in which to finish their contracts.38
            
            On the part of the road between the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Wabash
                    , Commissioner Noble reported sixty-nine sections finished, sixty-three ready for
                    inspection, and on the remaining sections three-fourths of the work was done.
            Regarding the road north of the 
                        Wabash
                    , Noble reported that that part of the road was not opened because of a peculiar
                    conflict between his duties and those of Polke. Noble was to have the contracts let on the north
                    portion by the fourth Monday in August if funds were available. Funds from a land sale in October
                    could not be available in August. Since Polke had not yet succeeded in his conference with the
                    Indians by the fourth Monday in August, Noble suspended the sales of the road until he received
                    further orders of the legislature.
            His total expenses were $315, of which $154 was his own salary39 and the balance was for surveyors and assistants. Since only $808.50 had been
                    received in cash at the land sales, his and Polke's expenses were allowed from the treasury
                    by the Assembly at the following session.40
            
            Thus, by the end of 1831, after one year, the "opening" or constructing of the 
                        Michigan
                     Road between the 
                        Ohio
                     and the 
                        Wabash
                     was well underway. There were 132 of 163 sections cleared and grubbed according to the
                    terms of the law of January 29, 1830, and the remaining thirty sections were almost completed.
            The land selections were complete except for 1,174 acres, and the sales had averaged
                    $1,000 per section to apply to each mile of the road. In his farewell message to the
                    Assembly in December, 1831, Governor Ray said that if the balance of the lands sold as well, 
                        Contractors upon this road may congratulate themselves in the prospect 
                        
                           38
                                    Laws of the State of Indiana, 1831-1832, ch. XCI.
                        
                           39 Report of the Commissioner, Journal of the
                                        House of Representatives of Indiana, 1831-1832, App. C.
                        
                           40
                                    Laws of the State of Indiana, 1831-1832, ch. CLXXXIV.
                     
                             of speedy redemption of their scrip. The timber being
                            removed from the road, this season, such improvements upon it the next, as shall make it
                            passable, are required of necessity; which calls for an additional sale of the lands.41
                  
                    
            
            Noah Noble ended his services as commissioner in 1831 when he was elected governor as successor to
                    Ray. He began his political career as county sheriff at 
                        Brookville
                    ; he served as representative in the state assembly; he was appointed to the government
                    land office at 
                        Brookville
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     by President Adams, from which office he was removed by President Jackson in 1829. In
                    1830 he was appointed contract commissioner on the 
                        Michigan
                     Road in which capacity he was serving when elected governor on the Whig ticket in 1831.
                    Like Ray, he was an internal improvements enthusiast. His record of efficiency as commissioner
                    undoubtedly aided in his election as governor.
            With the favorable outcome of the 1831 program lending confidence, the Assembly could carry on the
                    plans for 1832 with greater assurance than before. The offices of the 
                        Michigan
                     Road land commissioner and contract commissioner were united and the officer chosen by
                    joint ballot. The commissioner was to hold two land sales in 1832, the first in June and the second
                    in October. The requirements with few exceptions were the same as at the first sale of 1831. The
                    commissioner was permitted to choose the place of the sale and to sell half-quarters or 80-acre
                    portions. These half-quarters could be divided so that all pieces sold might lie on the road.
            As evidence of the increased confidence in the financial situation, the commissioner was ordered to
                    open the road between 
                        Logansport
                     and Lake Michigan 100 feet wide instead of 66 feet as had been
                    ordered in 1831. The expenditures on this part, however, were to be kept in proportion to the amount
                    spent on the part south of the 
                        Wabash
                     to 
                        Madison
                    . The north end was covered with heavier timber on some of the route, but the prairie
                    stretches were expected to keep the average cost down.
            The sections were to be one mile in length, numbered from 
                        Logansport
                    ; they were to be sold by July 4, and finished by November 30. The commissioner could
                    make minor alterations 
                  
                     41 Governor's Message, Journal of the House of
                                Representatives of Indiana, 1831-1832, p. 17.
               
                     in the road. It was to be shifted slightly so as to enter on 
                        Michigan
                     Street in the newly laid town at the lake terminal. On both the north and south
                    divisions, creek banks were to be graded, swamps and mud causewayed, and sufficient bridges erected
                    to make the road passable at all times for wagons. Not more than $25,000 was to be spent
                    on the southern end. Contractors were to be paid in scrip redeemable in land or cash from land
                        sales.42 All scrip that was now in the treasury was required to be
                    registered and burned.43
            
            William Polke was selected for the position of commissioner because of his knowledge of the work
                    already begun. His salary was $800 per year, and he was not to exceed $700 per
                    year for help. His bond was $100,000. After the two land sales were completed,, he was to
                    establish an office where the unsold lands were to be held for sale. This office was to be in the
                    north part of the state, and in 1832 Polke moved his family from 
                        Knox County
                     to a new home about a mile north of the Tippecanoe River. This was
                    the first frame house built on the 
                        Michigan
                     Road north of the Wabash River.44
            
            Beginning at 
                        Madison
                     early in the spring of 1832, Polke examined and measured the swamps, low grounds,
                    streams, and the banks and hills on each mile in order to have descriptions of the required work for
                    prospective contractors. In March he advertised the dates the contracts would be sold, and on April
                    16 the sales began at 
                        Madison
                    . The twelve sales of the 163 miles from 
                        Madison
                     to 
                        Logansport
                     were made at various points along the road and were completed in sixteen days.45
            
            
               
                  42
                        Laws of the State of Indiana, 1831-1832, ch. CXXVII, secs. 1, 3, 11-12.
               
                  43
                        Ibid., 1831-1832, ch. CLXXXIV.
               
                  44 Mrs. Edward A. Rumley, of 
                            La Porte
                        , Indiana, a relative of William Polke, states in a letter written in July, 1941,
                        that this house was built in 1832 and still stands on the "main highway" north of 
                            Rochester
                        . Inquiry reveals that residents of that vicinity are not now aware of its location
                        or historic connection.
               
                  45 Report of the Commissioner, Journal of the House tof
                            Representatives of Indiana, 1832-1833, App. A. The description of the work to be done
                        on each section is the best means available for comprehending the nature of the work of building
                        the 
                            Michigan
                         Road. From 
                            Madison
                         to 
                            Logansport
                         there were 19 frame bridges built with a total length of 1,410 feet; 199 puncheon
                        bridges, with a total length of 4,203 feet; 264 hills graded; and 12,646 rods of causewaying.
                        The whole cost was $22,850, an average of $104.15 per mile.
            
            
            Having placed the southern part under contract, Polke made a resurvey of the 
                        Logansport
                    -to-Lake Michigan portion; he made a few minor changes and erected substantial mile
                    posts. In June he held the land sale following the required two months' notices in the newspapers.
                    This first land sale of 1832 was advertised to be held at 
                        South Bend
                    , beginning June 4. The lands were to be sold in tracts as 
                        United States
                     lands were sold, with variations in certain sections which the road passed through, to
                    produce a sufficient sum to refund the state the amount advanced and the amount due for contracts
                    heretofore let. A list of sections and the order in which they would be sold was given. Some were on
                    Eel River "in the vicinity of the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal," on which contracting had started in 1832. More than thirty
                    townships were listed with numerous sections in each.46
            
            In the 
                        South Bend
                     sales which lasted four days, 13,709.29 acres sold for $18,134.29, an
                    average of $1.33 per acre. The highest price paid was $7 per acre. The Black
                    Hawk Indian alarm which occurred just two weeks previous to the sales injured the sales
                        considerably.47 Enough land was sold to redeem all scrip in circulation but
                    not enough to reimburse the state treasury nor to secure the state debt. As a result the treasurer
                    and auditor recommended, subject to the ruling of the legislature, that the northeast quarter or
                    fractional quarter of each section be reserved from sale except for cash. This reserved about 27,680
                    acres to be sold for cash.
            Between June 14 and 22, the Lake 
                  Michigan-Logansport
                sector was
                    placed under contract. Polke divided this into five districts for the convenience of contractors.
            The first district sale was at Stanton's in 
                        La Porte County
                    ,, for fourteen miles, where the contracts averaged $345.66 per mile, the
                    highest on the entire road due to the large amount of marshes which could not be drained and were to
                    be log causewayed, and 284 rods of turnpike over wet prairies that could be drained. At
                    Lykin's on Lake Du Chemin the average was $155.58. At 
                        South Bend
                     where 32 miles were let, the average was $315.50. This included two frame
                    bridges, 140 feet long, 278 rods of puncheon causewaying 
                  
                     46
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana Journal, March 31, 1832.
                  
                     47
                            "Ibid., June 16, 1832.
               
                     over "the worst description of prairie and cranberry
                    marshes," and 22 puncheon bridges, in addition to log causewaying, ditching, and grading.
                    The fourth sale at the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     Crossing and the fifth and last sale at 
                        Logansport
                    , which included one frame bridge, averaged $273.81 and $284.79
                    respectively.
            The total cost of the contracts on the 102 miles from Lake Michigan to 
                        Logansport
                     was $29,382.92, an average of $288.06 per mile. This average was
                    $195.38 less per mile than the average cost on the road between 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Logansport
                    . About sixty-four miles of the south part, from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to Napoleon, were on the 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     state road which should have lowered the cost of improvements. This state road was not
                    opened 100 feet wide, however.
            The higher costs for the southern section were due to various causes. More work had been done on that
                    part. Nineteen frame bridges were built on the 163 miles from 
                        Madison
                     to 
                        Logansport
                     and only five on the 102 miles from 
                        Logansport
                     to the lake. On the south section 199 puncheon bridges were built and 264 hills graded
                    compared to 87 puncheon bridges and 93 hills graded on the north section. It was necessary, however,
                    to do more log and puncheon causewaying on the north sector. Too, in 1830, the uncertainty of the
                    redemption of the scrip in good lands had tended to make the contracts higher. Governor Ray also
                    contended that the letting of the contracts in large units made the rates higher than was necessary.
                    Noble denied this and submitted evidence that his large contracts had saved the state money.
            At the second land sale of 1832, held at 
                        Logansport
                     on October 15, a total of 15,113.66 acres were sold for $22,635.42.
                    Polke's report gives the average as $1.43 per acre, but it actually figures
                    $1.50. The highest price per acre paid for any land at this sale was $4.50.
                    Between the October sale and November 24, private sales were made through the 
                        Logansport
                     office, totaling 9,219.84 acres for $11,524.77.
            Although no attempt had been made to trace or make a thorough report of the individual sales of the 
                        Michigan
                     Road lands, it was notable that there were several large buyers. In the 1832 sales at 
                        South Bend
                     and 
                        Logansport
                    , John Walker of 
                        Shelby County
                     purchased more than 5,240 acres for $6,584. Walker was one of the four
                    contractors listed by Noah Polke in justification of his "sweeping bids" contracts let in
                    1830.  The "Gen. Wilson" bids in the same report were
                    ten times larger than John Walker's, but he evidently redeemed much of his scrip in cash
                    rather than 
                        Michigan
                     Road lands.
            By taking the 67,652.47 acres sold, as shown in the 1832 report, from the total grant of 169,152
                    acres, there were left 110,719.27 acres to be disposed of by the General Assembly for the redemption
                    of issued scrip, for scrip to be issued on present contracts, for the balance of the debt due the
                    state, and for the further improvement of the road.
            Scrip amounting to $50,815.06 was issued in 1832 in payment of contracts. Added to the
                    $55,373.48 issued in 1830 on contracts entered into by Noah Noble, this made a total of
                    $106,188.53, of which $94,177.72 had been redeemed. There was yet to be issued
                    $15,661.02 on the 1832 contracts.48 The redeemed scrip was ordered to
                    be registered and burned.
            Governor Noble and the Assembly of 1832-1833 seemed to be well satisfied with Commissioner
                    Polke's progress. Governor Noble commented that the "Commissioner. . . by economy
                    and good management of the fund. . . has added all the improvements to that thoroughfare, which were
                        cotemplated."49 Only two acts dealing with the road were passed.
                    The first was merely a petition to Congress for a new district land office to be opened at a central
                    point north of the 
                        Wabash
                     to facilitate land sales for the emigrants pressing rapidly into the north section of
                    the state.50 A law providing for the opening of a land office at 
                        La Porte
                     was passed by Congress on March 2, 1833. This office was moved to Winamac in 1839.51 The second act was a fairly short, blanket act supplementing the act of
                    February 2, 1832, which covered the various needs for the continuance of work on the road. In
                    compliance with Polke's request, the contractors were given nine months' further time to
                    complete their work. This extension was needed especially on the road north of 
                        Logansport
                    . The suggestion of the auditor and treasurer to reserve the northeast quarter of each
                    section for cash sales was accepted and was to be effective until the amount due to treasury was
                    paid. By July of the following 
                  
                     48 Report of the Commissioner, Journal of the House of
                                Representatives of Indiana, 1832-1833, App. A.
                  
                     49 Governor's Message, ibid., 1832-1833, p.
                            14.
                  
                     50
                            Laws of the State of Indiana, 1832-1833, ch. CXCIX.
                  
                     51 Logan Esarey, History of Indiana (2 vols., Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , 1924), I, 391.
               
                     year this debt was paid and this section of the act suspended.
                    The commissioner was authorized to change the location of the road in 
                        Shelbyville
                     so it would pass through that town on 
                        Washington
                     Street. A $25,000 additional appropriation out of the road fund was made for
                    further improvements on the road between 
                        Logansport
                     and the 
                        Ohio
                    , unless the balance of the previous appropriation for the road north of 
                        Logansport
                     should be found insufficient for that part. In this case, the commissioner was to
                    expend the new appropriation in order to make the north part equally as good as the south. This work
                    was to be done between the first of March and November.52
            
            In the season of 1833, Polke began at the 
                        Madison
                     end and by June 12 had let contracts all along the road to 
                        Michigan City
                     "as would be most beneficial" to make it equally passable. North of 
                        Logansport
                     the contracts of the preceding year were not in such a state of completion as to make
                    it desirable to let further contracts and only a few were let on this part. Little progress had been
                    made through the marshes because of weather conditions and scarcity of labor.
            The commissioner endeavored to have all the smaller streams substantially bridged, and he reported
                    that all streams which occasioned serious obstruction to travelers were bridged except the White, 
                        Wabash
                    , Eel, and 
                        Tippecanoe
                     rivers. It would be up to the Assembly, he declared, to determine whether these rivers
                    should be bridged or the money used for improving the road by further turnpiking and grading.
            Scrip was again issued before contracts were completed, contrary to the law, but in many cases the
                    work would have stopped without partial issues. The report shows that $32,743.77 was
                    issued in scrip to apply on contracts amounting to $43,847.75, leaving payable only
                    $11,103.98 upon completion of work.
            Of the $43,847.75 expended on the road this year, $26,643.25 was on that
                    portion south of 
                        Logansport
                    , which again exceeded the amount Polke was authorized to expend on that part, and he
                    had not contracted for the full amount authorized north of that point. He was induced to pursue this
                    course, he said, "from the anxiety of the public to have the road made passable at all
                    seasons." In all, about 
                  
                     52
                            Laws of the State of Indiana, 1832-1833, ch. XXXIV, secs. 1-5.
               
                     forty frame bridges, from twenty to thirty miles of grading,
                    and a number of rough bridges for the ravines and drains constituted the major part of the work
                    completed on the road in this season.
            In regard to the road between 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Greensburg
                    , on what was then called the 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     state road and which was only sixty-five feet wide, he found that no authority was
                    given him to take relinquishments from owners of land through which the 100-foot-wide road would
                    pass and the owners were unwilling to leave open more than sixty-six feet. In one instance,
                    objections made to erecting a bridge on the grounds that it was not in the proper place caused a
                    suspension of the work. The commissioner employed the 
                        Decatur County
                     surveyor to survey other routes and this bridge was finally erected across Clifty Creek
                    at an entirely different place which was on better ground and which shortened the route nine rods.
            The land sales from November 26, 1832, to December 3, 1833, were 36,495 acres, which brought
                    $45,618.75, an average of $1.25 per acre. The expenses for the same period
                    were $2,149.88.53
            
            The state was gradually approaching her period of greatest enthusiasm for internal improvements. In
                    stressing the vital need of improvements Governor Noble suggested to the 1833-1834 session of the
                    Assembly, that the state borrow $100,000 to $150,000 for improving the rivers
                    and roads. The upper 
                        Wabash
                     area received further stimulus for settlement when 
                        Ohio
                    's action in cooperating on the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal was cleared up. Thirty-two miles of the canal were now under contract. 
                        Illinois
                     had appropriated around $12,000 for aid on this project, and Noble asked
                    this state to do likewise.54
            
            The need for funds to carry out such improvements led the state, to memorialize Congress for the
                    right to tax the 
                        Michigan
                     Road lands, altering the compact made in the Constitution of 1816 not to tax lands sold
                    by the 
                        United States
                     for five years. The state contended that since the 
                        Michigan
                     Road lands were not sold on credit and no payments were being made by the purchaser, no
                    further reason existed for 
                  
                     53 Report of the Commissioner, Journal of the Senate of
                                Indiana, 1833-1831, pp. 130-31.
                  
                     54 Governor's Message, Journal of the House of
                                Representatives of Indiana, 1833-1834, pp. 14-24.
               
                     not taxing them.55 The next year the state
                    authorized the counties to collect tax on 
                        Michigan
                     Road and canal lands.56
            
            During 1834, Commissioner Polke continued the work he had begun in the previous year and provided for
                    new improvements. Much work on previous contracts was incomplete, and contractors were given an
                    extension of time until August 1. An additional appropriation of $30,000 from the road
                    fund had been made for the further improvements under the same conditions as those of 1833. All
                    parts of the road were to be made equally good, and the commissioner was to make the improvements
                    where he judged necessary. He was allowed to let either public or private contracts. In order to
                    complete the widening of the 
                  Indianapolis-Greensburg
               
                    section, he was given authority to open the road the full 100 feet wherever that had not already
                    been done.57
            
            After new contracts of $26,245.96 were made for the season, Polke divided the road into
                    three districts and appointed a superintendent over each to inspect the work and enter into minor
                    additional contracts as appeared necessary. This, it was thought, would provide better inspection of
                    the work and assure stricter compliance with the terms of contracts. Over the first district from 
                        Madison
                     seventy miles north, he appointed Daniel Kelso as superintendent; over the next ninety
                    miles to 
                        Logansport
                    , he appointed Horace Basset; and over the third and remaining division from Logansporth
                    north, he took charge himself.
            The "uncommon emigration" to the North and the large amount of merchandise, principally salt
                    and other heavy articles, transported from 
                        South Bend
                    , 
                        Michigan City
                    , and other places to the 
                        Wabash
                     area on the unfinished road impeded progress, he reported; and it was
                    "materially injured before it became sufficiently settled for carriages to pass with ease
                    and facility."
            He suggested that plain and substantial bridges he erected over the Eel and 
                        Tippecanoe
                     rivers because of the inconvenience "especially during the winter on account of high
                    water and ice," and it was believed an important stage line would pass along the road from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to connect with the 
                  Detroit-Chicago
                route. These two bridges would complete 
                  
                     55
                            Laws of the State of Indiana, 1833-1834, ch. CXX.
                  
                     56
                            Ibid., 1834-1835, ch. LX, sec. 1.
                  
                     57
                            Ibid., 1833-1834, ch. CXXV, secs. 1-2.
               
                     the bridging of all streams except the White and 
                        Wabash
                    .
            Polke did not mention any land sales in his annual report, but later reports show that he sold
                    34,071.08 acres for $42,588.57 in 1834. He selected five new sections of land in lieu of
                    previous erroneous selections under the act of Congress of June 28, 1834.58 The
                    new selections were made in the lands granted by the Potawatomi Treaty of 1832.59
            
            Most of the time of the Assembly in 1834-1835 was spent in framing legislation for a general system
                    of improvements. The Assembly decreased the appropriations for the 
                        Michigan
                     Road since the best part of the road lands had been sold. Only $5,000 was
                    appropriated for repairs and the $750 allowance to the commissioner for assistants was
                    cancelled. Polke was required to certify his new selections of 1834 to the 
                        United States
                     land office, and provide for a public auction of lands not yet offered for sale; the
                    auction was to be held at Chippewa in 
                        Fulton County
                     in September, 1835, with a minimum price of three dollars per acre.60
            
            The Assembly in 1834-1835 made an investigation of charges against Polke that he had mismanaged the
                    road fund and had been guilty of indiscretions in carrying out his duties. The charges were not
                    proved. He was said to be within his authority in making partial issues of scrip since he was under
                    bond to the state; and in the matter of the accusation that he had given large contracts to
                    individuals and companies in conspiracies to secure unduly large numbers of contracts, the
                    investigating committee found to its satisfaction that Polke's chief accusers were
                    frustrated contractors.61 As proof of the fact that the Assembly was not
                    suspicious of Polke, he was retained in office five years longer, until his task was done.
            His annual report of 1835 indicates very little repairs made in that year, mainly because of the
                    small appropriation. The total sum expended was $9,045.24, of which $4,998 was
                    used on the road north of 
                        Logansport
                    . A bridge was contracted 
                  
                     58
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, IV, 702.
                  
                     59 Report of the Commissioner, Journal of the House of
                                Representatives of Indiana, 1834-1835, p. 106.
                  
                     60
                            Laws of the State of Indiana, 1834-1835, ch. CXVIII, secs. 1-2, 5, 8-9.
                  
                     61
                            Journal of the House of Representatives of Indiana, 1834-1835, p.
                        476.
               
                     for over the Tippecanoe River for $1,390, which at
                    the time of the report lacked a few weeks' work of being "passable."
            The commissioner tried to secure the approval of the general land office on his newly selected lands
                    before the September sale, but not all of the selections were approved. Since Polke was at this time
                    "sick in bed," the secretary of state made additional selections, which, though
                    not approved, were offered for sale at Chippewa. At this sale 5,103.48 acres were sold for
                    $21,304.27, averaging $4.171/2 per acre. This unusual price was chiefly due to
                    the fact that these were newly selected lands which had not before been offered for sale. Adding the
                    private sales of newly selected and old lands, the entire proceeds for 1835 were
                    $33,030.31.
            After redeeming scrip in circulation and that to be issued on existing claims, there still remained
                    for improvement of the road $5,858 plus the value of the 16,481.25 acres of unsold lands
                    estimated at $20,601.25. The commissioner's expenses for this period, which he
                    stated had been increased by his illness, were $1,459.2462 By
                    December 24, 1835, the total expenditures on the 
                        Michigan
                     Road for construction, improvements, etc., were $200,371.70.
            In the first session held in the new Capitol building in December, 1835, Governor Noble reminded the
                    Assembly that heavy rains and the constant use of "that great thoroughfare -the 
                        Michigan
                     Road" while in its green state had so greatly injured the road that repairs were
                    necessary. These would have to be made either from the estimated $20,000 value of the
                    remaining lands or from other sources.63 The commissioner was directed to expend
                    all funds he had or would have before November 30, 1836, on further improving the road. If
                    contractors had not completed their work by September 10, suit was to be brought against their
                    bonds. All records of the 
                        Michigan
                     Road commissioner were to be turned over to the auditor; and on February 20, 1837, the
                    office of commissioner was to be abolished. Polke was to receive $450 for his services
                    this year.64
            
            
               
                  62 Report of the Commissioner, Journal of the Senate of
                            Indiana, 1835-1836, p. 334.
               
                  63 Governor's Message, Journal of the House of
                            Representatives of Indiana, 1835-1836, p. 12.
               
                  64
                        Laws of the State of Indiana, 1835-1836, ch. CXXXIV, secs. 1, 4-6, 9.
            
            
            Some of the entries of late land selections had not yet been recorded on the books of the general
                    land office in 
                        Washington
                    , and the senators and representatives in Congress were instructed to have the proper
                    entries of all 
                        Michigan
                     Road lands made in the general land office and the proper certificate forwarded to the
                    secretary of state.65
            
            In his report of 1836, Polke said that he employed local superintendents who hired hands and teams to
                    make improvements in various places. Each contractor furnished a monthly report of work done. From 
                        Madison
                     to 
                        Logansport
                     $9,234.35 was spent, and the expenditures north of 
                        Logansport
                     were $10,413.75. Owing to the increased price of labor and provisions, the
                    contractors were not willing to furnish tools and these were furnished by the commissioner subject
                    to the order of the Assembly. The commissioner stated that the experience of the past two years had
                    proved that in rich, level lands a clay turnpike did not make a permanent road at all seasons of the
                    year, so 
                        the mode has been adopted of covering the turnpiking in the worst marshes with substantial
                            timbers and then covering the timbers with a good coat of sand, or of the best material
                            which could be had in the vicinity.
                     It was believed that after the road or causeways had been made and traveled upon to firmly
                    imbed the timbers in the earth and keep them from the air, it would make a good road which would
                    "last and be passable for many years."
            Polke also reported in 1836 that several bridges were partially destroyed by high waters. One bridge
                    on the seventy-sixth mile north of 
                        Logansport
                     was entirely swept away and made the road "almost impassable." This
                    was replaced with a permanent frame bridge. The heavy rains in September and October and the large
                    number of loaded wagons on the road north of 
                        Indianapolis
                     made several places nearly impassable, Polke reported, when he came over that portion
                    in November.
            Due to a few contracts being unfinished and to his increased duties, Polke said he was unable to make
                    a complete report at that time but a supplemental report would be made in a few days. At various
                    other times Polke had advised that supplemental reports would be made. If these were ever made, they
                    were not printed in the documentary journals.
            
               
                  65
                        Ibid., 1835-1836, ch. CXC.
            
            
            Polke furnished a recapitulation of the land sales along with this report. At the time of this report
                    there remained, the commissioner said, only 1,840.9 acres of unsold land, and the 
                        Michigan
                     Road fund was nearly exhausted.66 The general government, however,
                    granted new and more valuable selections in place of the ones sold by the district land offices and
                    in places of certain worthless lands in the original selections, which not only gave the state some
                    of the best selling lands, but made an actual conveyance of almost 900 acres in excess of the lands
                    to which she was originally entitled.67
            
            Although the 
                        Michigan
                     Road had as yet cost the state nothing, Governor Noble insisted in his message of
                    December, 1836, that this road, because it was used for a very large portion of the trade and travel
                    to and from the north districts, was of much value to the public and the state should assume its
                    maintenance since the road fund was now almost exhausted.68 The Board of
                    Internal Improvements then in charge of Indiana's system of improvements was authorized to
                    make a survey and estimate of the cost of improving the road from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                        Michigan City
                     and report to the next General Assembly.69
            
            The legislature of 1836-1837 tried to wind up the affairs of the 
                        Michigan
                     Road. Its improvement, of course, did not and has not yet ended any more than that of
                    any used road, but it was desired to finish the few remaining land selections, expend the proceeds
                    and conclude its standing as a special project.
            William Polke was retained in office for a period of another year, until January 1, 1838, to carry
                    out certain unfinished duties. He was to complete the land selections, secure titles to all without
                    proper certificates, and to sell at the Chippewa office all unoffered lands at not less than
                    $5 per acre. Within thirty days after the close of the sale which was set for October 10,
                    he was to deliver all money now or previously received to the Canal Fund commissioners 
                  
                     66 Report of the Commissioner, Journal of the Senate of
                                Indiana, 1836-1837, pp. 122-28.
                  
                     67 "Report of the Auditor of Public Accounts in Relation to
                            the 
                                Michigan
                             Road Lands," Documents of the House of Representatives at
                                the Twenty-Fifth Session of the General Assembly. . . of Indiana, 1840, Doc. No.
                            53, pp. 569-75.
                  
                     68 Governor's Message, Journal of the House of
                                Representatives of Indiana, 1836-1837, p. 21.
                  
                     69
                            Laws of the State of Indiana, 1836-1837, ch. XLIX, secs. 1-2.
               
                     to be held for improving the road. Any further funds received
                    before the end of his extended term, January 1, 1838, also were to be turned over to the fund
                    commissioners, and all the books and papers of his office were to be delivered to the auditor. His
                    pay for this term was to be appropriated by the Assembly.
            Appropriations of $5,000 each were made for bridges over the Eel and White rivers. Five
                    commissioners-Joseph Corbett, George B. Walker, 
                        Jordan
                     Vigus, John Dodd, and William Sellers, all of 
                        Cass County
                    -were appointed to erect a free bridge over Eel River at Bridge Street in 
                        Logansport
                    . They were to receive $25 each. Polke was to advance the $5,000
                    as soon as construction commenced and the bridge was to be finished within eighteen months. The
                    White River bridge at 
                        Indianapolis
                     was to be finished within two years.70
            
            All the tools belonging to the fund were ordered sold at public auction under Polke's
                    direction and the proceeds restored to the fund.71 The tools consisted mainly of
                    axes, mattocks, and spades and were scattered along the whole length of the road in the possession
                    and use of persons acting as contractors. Some were not returned, but the ones sold brought
                    $100.29.
            The 
                        Michigan
                     Road project lost much of its prominence in the internal improvements picture after
                    1834 because the attention of the state was concentrated on the program of the Mammoth Internal
                    Improvement Bill passed in January, 1836. This $13,000,000 state-supported program
                    eclipsed the $250,000 land grant 
                        Michigan
                     Road. Some attention, however, was contemplated to be given the 
                        Michigan
                     Road as the Internal Improvements Board was authorized to make a survey between 
                        Indianapolis
                     and Lake Michigan to determine the cost of improving that part. The limitation of the
                    survey to the north part may be explained by the provision in the Mammoth Bill for a railroad from 
                        Madison
                     to 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            At this time in Indiana there was no state highway department to assume the maintenance of state
                    constructed roads; and when the state had exhausted the land grant revenue on the road, its upkeep
                    was assigned to the counties through which it passed. In the appropriation bill of 1834, 
                  
                     70
                            Ibid., 1836-1837, ch. X, secs. 1-4, 7-8, 10-13.
                  
                     71
                            Ibid., 1836-1837, ch. XLVI, sec. 1.
               
                     the 
                        Michigan
                     Road was assigned to district supervisors for repairs. By a similar act passed February
                    2, 1837, the road was turned over to the county boards who were to divide it into districts and
                    appoint supervisors whose duty it was to call out the "liable" inhabitants along the road
                    to make improvements as the supervisor deemed best.72
            
            There was considerable disappointment in some quarters at the lack of further appropriations by the
                    legislature in 1836 and 1837 for improving the road. The 
                        Logansport
                    
                    Herald and the 
                        Logansport
                    
                    Telegraph complained of its condition and urged improvements. In October, 1837,
                    the Herald quoted the editor of the 
                        Richmond
                    
                    Palladium who had traveled the road several times during the summer of that year
                    and in the early part of the season found it almost impassable. He hoped the ensuing legislature
                    would make liberal appropriations for its improvement. 
                        Had emigrants any idea of the badness of this road they would not venture upon it, and we
                            have no doubt that it does deter many from moving to the 
                                Wabash
                             country. . . . The mails cannot be transported with any regularity, and for the
                            greater part of the year stages do not pretend to go at all.73
                  
                    
            
            In December, the Herald reported through a letter from George Ewing of the state
                    Senate that Daniel Yandes of the Board of Internal Improvements had not yet reported to the Assembly
                    on the survey to determine improvement of the road. Ewing stated that he was opposed to Judge
                    Polke's proposal to sell the road to individuals or to a company to improve it and make a
                    toll road of it: 
                        I recognize the 
                                Michigan
                             Road as a state work of primary importance, and that it is in every respect
                            deserving of the attention of the Legislature-by far more important to the whole state than
                            many of the works provided for in the general system of improvement of 1836.74
                  
                    
            
            In the same issue, the editor became a little sarcastic in the following article: 
                        Many plans have been suggested to better the condition of this road. -One proposes to
                            Macadamise-another to make it a broad striped corduroy-a third thinks a tow-path should be
                            thrown up and 
                        
                           72
                                    Ibid., 1836-1837, ch. XLIX, sec. 3.
                        
                           73
                                    
                                        Logansport
                                    , Indiana, Herald, October 19, 1837, from 
                                        Richmond
                                    , Indiana, Palladium, n. d.
                        
                           74
                                    
                                        Logansport
                                    , Indiana, Herald, December 28, 1837.
                     
                             the road might be navigable as a canal-a fourth
                            proposes to build a hospital shed, from one end to the other to keep the rain off,
                                &c.75
                  
                    
            
            On February 22, after the legislative session ended, the Herald dejectedly
                    reported, "not a single dollar was appropriated for the 
                        Michigan
                     Road, it is to be left in its present condition."76 When
                    another appropriation bill for the improvement of the road was lost early in the following session
                    of the legislature, the editor of the Herald gave vent to unrestrained
                    indignation: 
                        In the name of all that is just and righteous, what do the members of the Indiana legislature
                            mean? Do they intend that the northern portion of our State, and the most
                            prosperous-shall remain uncultivated and half wilderness as it is, for the want of a
                            thoroughfare? . . . In truth one would think so. The 
                                Michigan
                             Road, poor thing, is fated to decay, rot, and become a nuisance. . . .77
                  
                    
            
            Immediately after the passage of the act retaining him in office until January 1, 1838, Polke
                    endeavored to arrange a final adjustment with the general land office of the "tedious and
                    complicated business" of the road grant and the numerous discrepancies in land titles. On February
                    24, 1837, he received a report from that office which indicated some of the complications that arose
                    between the state and general governments in connection with this problem.
            Polke made the recommended new selections of 1,654.21 acres at once and attempted to get them
                    approved before the land sale. He was unsuccessful in this, but the governor advised him not to
                    postpone the sale. These unapproved selections were offered for sale at Chippewa on October 10, and
                    1,548.28 acres were sold at an average of $5.85 per acre, or for a sum of
                    $9,056.70. This, added to the $1,376.52 received for 1,101.27 acres of former
                    selections sold privately during the year, made the annual receipts $10,433.22. This left
                    only 106 acres of the new selections and 739.98 acres of old selections to be disposed of.
            Out of the receipts Polke advanced $5,000, as he had been directed, to the commissioners
                    of the Eel River bridge. This bridge was described as consisting of five stone pillars, two
                    abutments twenty-five feet long, six feet thick, twelve feet high, and "65 feet from center
                    to center." The city 
                  
                     75
                            Ibid., December 28, 1837.
                  
                     76
                            Ibid., February 22, 1838.
                  
                     77
                            Ibid., January 10, 1839.
               
                     subscribed $1,495 but more money was needed to
                    complete the siding, "ruffing," and embankments.
            As no person had been authorized to receive the appropriation for the bridge over the White River,
                    Polke did not pay that sum. After paying the $5,000 for the Eel River bridge, he turned
                    over $1,000 to Mr. Yandes on whose orders he later paid an additional $900.
                    Polke was again retained in office by the Assembly of 1837-1838 for the special purpose of selling
                    the residue of the 
                        Michigan
                     Road lands.
            The Assembly appointed commissioners to construct the White River bridge for which an appropriation
                    had been made at the last session. The road commissioner was to deposit this $5,000
                    appropriation with the treasurer; after deducting 10 per cent of sales receipts for his own
                    services, one-third of the balance was to be deposited for the White River bridge, and two-thirds
                    for finishing the Eel River bridge. Polke's papers were then to be turned over to the
                        auditor.78
            
            By an act approved ten days after the above act, $200 were appropriated for
                    Polke's salary for the past year. After he had deducted this sum, the balance of the funds
                    and all matters connected with his office were to be settled without delay. The unexpended portion
                    of the $1,900 which the commissioner had placed in the hands of the Board of Internal
                    Improvements for the survey of the road was likewise to be paid to the treasurer.79
            
            Although these acts were more or less contradictory, Polke ascertained that he was to continue in
                    office to perfect the title and sell the remaining lands.
            Polke's report of January 31, 1839, shows that he was able to sell the 106 acres for
                    $530, which, less 10 per cent commission, netted $477 to the fund. He paid
                    $5,726 on the White River bridge and $1,400 on the Eel River bridge. After
                    paying these amounts, the auditor's and treasurer's fees of $50 each,
                    and deducting the $200 provided for his last year's salary, he had left subject
                    to the disposition of the Assembly, $1,172.39. The 739.98 acres of old selections still
                        
                  
                     78
                            Laws of the State of Indiana, 1837-1838, ch. LXXXVIII, secs. 1, 6-7.
                  
                     79
                            Ibid., 1837-1838, ch. CCVI, secs. 1, 3.
               
                     remained unsold because of their poor quality and minimum price
                    of $1.25 per acre.
            In this report, Polke made complaint that he had not been paid "in the same proportion that
                    others engaged in public service are paid," and asked that a committee be appointed to
                    investigate his claims. In the two years, 1836 and 1837, his efforts and correspondence with the
                    general land office had resulted in the surrender of thousands of acres of refuse lands and made
                    possible the selection and sale of much more valuable lands, which had profited the state to the
                    extent of more than $23,000. Although this exchange created much more work and expense to
                    his office, his salary was only $450 and $200 respectively for the two years
                    which he "could not believe was full pay" for his services.80
            
            As none of the 739.98 acres of remaining lands sold in 1838, Polke did not turn in his books. An act
                    of February 16, 1839, which continued Banner Lawhead as commissioner to finish the White River
                    bridge, directed the latter to correspend with Polke to find if any funds were available for that
                    purpose. The 
                        Michigan
                     Road commissioner was urged by this act to complete the sale of lands, if possible, by
                    September 1. Lawhead was authorized to spend any balance of the funds improving the road wherever he
                    judged it was needed.81
            
            The last report made by William Polke, on December 13, 1839, shows that he was still holding for sale
                    the 739.98 acres of land. He had secured and transmitted to the secretary of state the title to the
                    entire road grant of 170,969.35 acres. He presented back claims of $1,193 to the Assembly
                    for the three years 1835, 1836, and 1837, against which he retained $678.81, the
                    unexpended balance of the $1,375.78 received by him during the year, "to balance
                    account." He stated in this report that a committee of the House had unanimously
                    recommended the allowance of these claims, and again asked the Assembly to investigate his claim.82 No 
                  
                     80 "Annual Report of the Commissioner of the 
                                Michigan
                             Road," Documents of the House of Representatives at the
                                Twenty-Third Session of the General Assembly. . . of Indiana, 1838, Doc. No. 38,
                            pp. 649-55.
                  
                     81
                            Laws of the State of Indiana, 1838-1839, ch. LXXXVII, secs. 1-4.
                  
                     82 "Annual Report of the Late Commissioner of the 
                                Michigan
                             Road, Relative to 
                                Michigan
                             Road Lands," Documents of the Senate of Indiana at the
                                Twenty-Fourth Session of the General Assembly, 1839, Doc. No. 4, pp. 131-36.
               
                     record was found to show that the state ever made any
                    additional allowance to Polke in consideration of his claim. Instead, in an act of February 15,
                    1841, which provided for settlement with Andrew Wilson, contractor for the White River bridge, the
                    clerk of the 
                        Marion County
                     Circuit Court was authorized to pay to Wilson as part payment "about"
                    $136 when collected from a judgment against William Polke, late 
                        Michigan
                     Road commissioner.83 In an effort to verify the payment of this
                    judgment, a letter of inquiry was sent to the clerk of 
                        Marion County
                    , but the letter was not acknowledged; and a personal search through the old records of
                    the county was incomplete when supervisors in the clerk's office forbade the employees to
                    use their time in such work. An entry of a judgment case, "State of Indiana vs. William
                    Polke," was found in the index to the civil dockets of 
                        Marion County
                    . The act to provide for settlement with the commissioners of the White River bridge,
                    passed by the Assembly in 1841-1842, authorized the auditor of the state to bring suit against any
                    persons retaining any of the 
                        Michigan
                     Road funds.84
            
            Since none of the residue of lands would sell for $1.25 per acre, the Assembly provided in
                    February, 1840, that they be auctioned at 
                        Logansport
                     on the first Monday in September for not less than 621/2 cents per acre. Polke was to
                    hand over to Mr. Lawhead and Cyrus Taber of 
                        Cass County
                     all records and books of his office.85 This report of the last
                    public sale of 
                        Michigan
                     Road lands, which involved approximately four hundred acres, was apparently too
                    insignificant when compared with the reports of the various agents of the Internal Improvement
                    System in 1840 to be reported as a separate item. The 
                        Logansport
                     newspapers, the Herald and the Telegraph, likewise
                    neglected to mention the land sale. However, the annual report of the auditor of state, dated
                    February 5, 1841, stated that only 330.28 acres of 
                        Michigan
                     Road lands remained unsold, which indicated that 409.7 acres had been sold since
                    William Polke's report of December, 1839. Of these 330 acres, the auditor estimated that
                    110 acres might sell for fifty cents per acre, but the remainder 
                  
                     83
                            Laws of the State of Indiana, 1840-1841, ch. CLXIII, sec. 5.
                  
                     84
                            Ibid., 1841-1842, ch. CXXXVIII, sec. 3.
                  
                     85
                            Ibid., 1839-1840, ch. LIII, secs. 1-3.
               
                     of the lands lay in tamarac swamps and was practically
                    worthless.
            In his report, the auditor stated that by reference to the record of the certificates of the 
                        United States
                     for 
                        Michigan
                     Road purposes, it appeared that the whole 
                        Michigan
                     Road grant was 170,414.42 acres, but that the whole quantity granted to the state and
                    entered in the tract books of the road commissioner was 170,580.24 acres, which showed that 165.82
                    acres more had been granted to the state than was due her. This report contains a list of sixty-four
                    patents in which errors or discrepancies existed between the register of sales kept by the road
                    commissioner and the register of patents kept by the secretary of state. These errors were either in
                    the number of the patent, the description of the land, or in duplication of patents for the same
                        land.86 The correction of the sixty-four patents pertained to sales by the
                    state, and failed to account for the excess of 165.82 acres.
            The amount actually due the state under the treaty terms of one section per mile for the total length
                    of the road as surveyed in 1830 and 1831, 265 miles and 12.75 chains, was 169,702 acres. The grant
                    of 170,580.24 acres received by the state, according to the auditor's report, made a total
                    of 878.24 acres in excess of the treaty terms. Most of the excess resulted from attempts by the
                    general government to compensate the state for more valuable lands selected by the state and
                    subsequently sold by the general government.
            An act approved January 13, 1844, required all persons having any papers, vouchers, or maps of the
                    late 
                        Michigan
                     Road commissioner's office to turn them in to the auditor, who was to file and
                    preserve them. All powers granted the commissioner were conferred upon the auditor. Any purchaser of
                    unsold 
                        Michigan
                     Road lands was to pay the state treasurer who would grant a certificate on which the
                    secretary of state would issue a patent.87 In 1852, any unappropriated 
                        Michigan
                     Road land funds in the treasury or any funds that might arise from the sale of the
                    remaining unsold lands were appropriated to the common school fund.88
                    
                  
                     86 "Report of the Auditor of Public Accounts in Relation to
                            the 
                                Michigan
                             Road Lands," Documents of the House of
                            Representatives, 1840, Doc. No. 53, p. 570.
                  
                     87
                            Laws of the State of Indiana, 1843-1844, ch. LXXXVIII, secs. 1-3.
                  
                     88
                            Ibid., 1851-1852, ch. XLVIII, sec. 1.
               
                     In 1914 there were still small parcels of unsold lands in
                            
                  La Porte, St.
                        Joseph, Fulton
               , and 
                        Wabash counties
                    , two of which needed legal surveys to determine bounds and areas.89
            
            The total value of these lands to the state, as shown by the auditor's and
                    treasurer's reports in the documentary journals down to 1840, was $241,331.90,
                    and the expenditures on the road were $242,008.04. The expenditures exceeded the receipts
                    by $676.14; however, a few scattered acres of land remained unsold. The receipts of the
                    land sales and the expenditures on the road as figured from the commissioner's reports were
                    $252,136.87 received and $251,848.36 expended, with a balance on hand of
                    $288.51. It would be impossible to determine the reason for this variation in the records
                    without an exhaustive analysis of the reports and records. The difference may be due to the fact
                    that the commissioner, after 1831, deducted his salary, office, and other expenses from the land
                    sale receipts before sending the proceeds to the treasurer. From either report, however, it is
                    evident that the 
                        Michigan
                     Road, as it was in 1840 when completed according to the original plans, had cost the
                    state nothing and had no part in the financial collapse associated with the System of Improvements
                    of 1836.
            The 
                        Michigan
                     Road lands were located and mapped in 1914 by George Pence, field examiner of the State
                    Board of Accounts, under an act of 1909 which required the land department of the auditor's
                    office to make a complete record of the 
                        Michigan
                     Road land patents.90 This was done because the records which had been made under an act
                    of 1846 had been lost or destroyed.
            The 
                        Michigan
                     Road, insofar as it was built by the proceeds of the land grant in the Potawatomi
                    Treaty of 1826, was largely constructed in the years 1831 to 1835. The major portion of the fund was
                    spent on the road in that time. After the road was opened, that is, the right of way was cleared and
                    grubbed, every expenditure was classed as an improvement; and from the day of the first
                    "opening" near 
                        Madison
                     in 1830 to the present, improvements of some 
                  
                     89 George Pence, Report on 
                                Michigan
                             Road Lands (Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1914), 4. This report was made by the State Board of Accounts to correct
                            titles and records of the 
                                Michigan
                             Road lands. It lists the acts dealing with the road and the surveys and
                            contains blue prints of the 
                                Michigan
                             Road lands in each of the twelve counties in which they are located.
                  
                     90
                            Laws of the State of Indiana, 1909, ch. XXXI.
               
                     kind have been made on some part of the road practically every
                    year. The part between 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Logansport
                    , where the heaviest per mile expense was found during 1830 to 1840, still has a
                    reputation for being consistently closed for improvements. Much of it is of asphalt construction,
                    and the heavy trucking it receives from the north central part of the state leads to frequent need
                    of repair.
         
         
         
            William Henry Smith Memorial Library of the Indiana Historical Society
            CAROLINE DUNN
            Sketches and plans of three early forts and several interesting letters were acquired by the library
                    at the auction sale of the James McHenry Papers in 
                        New York
                     in May. McHenry was aide-de-camp and private secretary of General George 
                        Washington
                    , aide-de-camp of Gilbert Motier Marquis de 
                        Lafayette
                    , and secretary of war from 1796 to 1800. His papers, which included many documents and
                    letters from the years as head of the War Department, had been preserved by descendants until this
                    sale, which, in worthwhile and interesting material, was one of the outstanding auctions of recent
                    years.
            A ground plan of Fort 
                  Knox, Vincennes
               , 1788, shows, with accompanying notes, barracks for
                    officers and men, two-story blockhouses with platforms to mount cannon on upper floors, a sunken
                    magazine, a blacksmith's shop, the main gate over which is built a guardhouse, the sally
                    port, and palisades standing eleven feet above ground. The scale of the plan is given. This plan
                    gives slightly more information than and shows interesting variations in details and size from a
                    plan to which date 1788 has been given, which is in the War Department files and of which the
                    Indiana State Library has a photostat.
            The plan of Fort Finney, which was built at the mouth of the Miami in 1785, shows the type of
                    construction of the buildings and the location in reference to the 
                        Ohio
                     and Great Miami rivers and a neighboring ravine. Dimensions are given for the
                    buildings, council house, kitchen and vault outside the palisades of the fort, blockhouses at each
                    corner, guardhouse and commissary's store, and magazine within the ninefeet high palisades
                    with main gate over which the flag flies, and two sally ports. Loopholes in the blockhouses for
                    firing are indicated.
            For the second Fort Finney, erected on the Indiana shore at the Falls of the 
                        Ohio
                     in the winter of 1786-1787, there are delicately tinted drawings of the interior of the
                    fort as seen from the main gate and the exterior from the 
                    southeast and, on a third sheet, two plans. One shows location of the fort in reference to the
                    river, Silver Creek, 
                        Louisville
                    , and Clark-Ville. The other plan shows buildings with doors and chimneys indicated and
                    pickets between the buildings. The plans show the fort was on a hill overlooking the river and
                    indicate springs at the foot of the hill. This sheet carries the name of the mapmaker, Captain
                    Jonathan Heart.
            Both the Fort Finneys were constructed under the supervision of Captain Walter Finney and were named
                    for him. There is material on the building of the one at the mouth of the Miami in Major Ebenezer
                    Denny's journal and in that of General Richard 
                        Butler
                    . A main purpose of this fort and the council house built near it and shown on the plan
                    was to provide a meeting place for certain of the Indians and commissioners who had been appointed
                    to arrange a treaty with them. General 
                        Butler
                     and George Rogers Clark were two of these commissioners. A letter from Clark written
                    from this fort in November, 1785, was purchased by the library earlier this year. After the
                    conference with the Indians was concluded, this fort was more or less abandoned. Lieutenant Denny
                    mentioned also the Fort Finney at the Falls of the 
                        Ohio
                    ; and Sergeant Joseph Buell, who spent the month of June, 1787, there, tells of it in
                    his journal.
            A member of the Indiana Historical Society donated the funds necessary for purchase of these plans
                    and drawings of the forts.
            Undated, but probably of about the same period as the construction of these forts, are two pages of
                    instructions for "construction of Forts against Indians."
            Letters of Alexander 
                        Hamilton
                    , April 29 and May 2, 1799, to McHenry, deal with a galley built at 
                        Pittsburgh
                     and to be used by General James Wilkinson or Colonel John F. Hamtranck for auxiliary
                    protection on the 
                        Mississippi
                    .
            William Henry Harrison, writing McHenry from Fort 
                        Washington
                     (
                        Cincinnati
                    ), August 13, 1797, gives information concerning the movements of certain persons
                    suspected of promoting sedition. War with 
                        France
                     seemed imminent at that time.
            General Arthur St. Clair, July 18, 1796, also gives McHenry information about a person under
                    suspicion whose movements he had been asked to report. This letter is not printed in the St. Clair Papers, but those of May and of 
                    September 6, 1796, so printed deal with the same matter.
            James Ross, of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , writing to McHenry April 3, 1797, concerning Indians, the French and the western
                    frontier, speaks in glowing terms of the General John Gibson who was later to be secretary and
                    acting-governor of Indiana Territory.
            General Anthony 
                        Wayne
                     sends McHenry, February 22, 1796, a list of ordnance and artillery stores wanted for
                    the Legion in 1796; also, probably the same year, an estimate of the number of troops and cannon
                    needed to garrison the posts of "Michillimackinac, 
                        Detroit
                    , Miamis, Niagra."
         
         
         
            Documents
            LETTER WRITTEN BY MR. JOHANN WOLFGANG SCHREYER
            Edited by DONALD F. CARMONY
            Johann Wolfgang Schreyer and family emigrated from Bavaria and settled eight miles northeast of 
                        Plymouth
                    , Indiana, in 1843. They apparently left Bavaria the preceding year. Three years after
                    coming to Indiana the Schreyers sent a letter to their homeland, which was probably written during
                    the winter of 1845-1846. It is a detailed account of life in an early German settlement of 
                        Marshall County
                     and exhibits the love of liberty and an appreciation of freedom which burned with zeal
                    in the hearts and minds of many of our early German immigrants. One wonders how many Germans came to
                    America as the result of such letters.
            Forty years after this letter was written, a copy was returned to Mrs. Schreyer. Apparently she
                    copied it into a book for preservation. She believed that she had a reliable copy. Her approval is
                    indicated in the following statement which she wrote and signed in the book in which she had copied
                    the letter of 1846. She dated her statement January 8, 1886. It is as follows: 
                        After an interval of forty years, I have received through Mrs. Doctor Sack an accurate copy
                            of the original letter which we wrote during the winter of 1846 and mailed in the month of
                            June of the same year to our old home, 
                                Germany
                            . I herewith express in writing my gratitude to Mrs. Koenig and Mrs. Sack that
                            they have both so carefully preserved and kept the manuscript for so many years. There are
                            still people here who remember with gratitude what they owe to this letter and who have
                            often expressed themslves to that effect to my son, so that he has often told me that he
                            would like to hear the letter read. Through the kindness of Mrs. Sack I have been enabled to
                            fulfill this wish and have also undertaken the task of copying this letter word for word
                            once more, so that it may be preserved in our family. This task was not a light one, for
                            today, the eighth of January, I am seventy years old and I hope that those who may read
                            these words may have some consideration for the writer. I undertook the task with pleasure
                            and although my progress was slow I have happily finished it. Indeed the tears often came to
                            my eyes as I wrote, but many a dear and pleasant recollection has presented itself; it was
                            the most beautiful and the happiest part of my life, and according to my
                            notions of happiness, I felt myself truly happy.  I have
                            had much sorrow, suffered long and apparently hopeless periods of illness, but I have also
                            experienced many joyful hours more than I could count-and am happy to this hour. I am very
                            glad to know, that our letter induced so many to emigrate to America, especially as I know
                            of no one who has not profited by this change of country. Unfortunately, among the very ones
                            who have most improved their condition, there are some who are discontented, and it were
                            well if they would consider what the position and condition of themselves and their families
                            would be, had they remained in 
                                Germany
                            . I now close with these words to my German countrymen: Help to preserve the
                            freedom and independence of this country, our new home! Live so that you will be satisfied
                            with yourselves, and that you may not have cause to despise yourselves or that you need not
                            be ashamed of yourselves. Live so that you may be an honor to your new homeland.
                    
            
            The second letter is the reply to the first letter. It seems from the reply that Mrs. Schreyer, at
                    the time the first letter was written, enclosed a letter of some kind to her parents. There may have
                    been one or more other enclosures or messages not incorporated in the first letter. The reply is in
                    some measure to all these, although it takes the form of an answer to Mr. Schreyer's
                    letter.
            The letters have been translated by the late Miss Thekla Sack of 
                        South Bend
                     and Dr. 0. L. Bockstahler of Indiana University from copies now in the hands of Miss
                    Florence Schreyer, granddaughter of John Wolfgang Schreyer, of 
                        South Bend
                    . The translators have endeavored to make a faithful translation of the German, and the
                    account is very readable. Paragraphs have been introduced, brackets indicate explanatory material
                    inserted in the translation, but the parentheses and italics are in the letter itself.
            Mrs. Mabel Stanfield and Mr. Frederick Elbel of the Northern Indiana Historical Society, of 
                        South Bend
                    , directed the attention of the writer of this introduction to the correspondence and
                    aided in other ways.
            The documents which follow are so readable and so much to the point that they are published without
                    further comment or annotations. They are an excellent commentary on life in a rural German community
                    of northern Indiana a century ago.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    June 22, 1846.
                                
                        I deem it my duty to let you know where I am and how I am faring. In the first place,
                                    there is but little to write concerning our voyage, because these voyages are so
                                    frequently described. We were  on the ocean for
                                    seven weeks, and experienced many heavy storms, and yet the danger is by no means so
                                    great as many people imagine. I would advise no one to give up his intention of
                                    coming to America for fear of the crossing. I have discussed the voyage with many,
                                    and the majority were satisfied with their trip.
                        We remained in 
                                        New York
                                     for four days so that we might have the opportunity of seeing this
                                    wonderful city. It was not our wish to remain there, and I would not advise any man
                                    to do so who with a family is trying to find a home in this new country. Indeed the
                                    wages are better in the seacoast cities but there are such crowds of people and work
                                    is lacking; the dwellings too are very dear, from fifty to sixty dollars per year
                                    and that for the simplest kind of a dwelling (1 living room and bedroom) often on
                                    the fourth or fifth floor. The wood costs much more than anywhere in 
                                        Germany
                                    . A business man or a trader [one who follows a trade] cannot well
                                    establish himself here on account of his ignorance of the prevailing customs and, of
                                    course, the language. I advise young unmarried men, however, to remain in the cities
                                    near the coast, unless it is their desire to own farms, for it is very easy for them
                                    to find homes in German families and a sufficiently lucrative position that will
                                    enable them to learn the language, acquire customs and acquaintances, and in time to
                                    establish themselves.
                        To come back to our arrival in America! At 
                                        New York
                                     we boarded a steamboat that sails on the Hudson, making one hundred
                                    English miles in a night, and went to a city named 
                                        Albany
                                    . Here we transferred to a canal-boat and by means of the Erie Canal
                                    reached Buffalo. From there we continued our trip by water over Lake Erie to 
                                        Cleveland
                                    , then to Masilon,1 two weeks in all. It was the
                                    tenth day of November and the winter was coming on. Here we were compelled to remain
                                    and find shelter.
                        A young German, accompanied by his sister, coming from the vicinity of Erlangen was
                                    with us; they had been employed in 
                                        New York
                                     for one year. Their destination was a place eight miles farther away
                                    and I decided to go with them to see if I could find a home there. This place was
                                    named Canton and was composed of several hundred houses. I engaged a house because
                                    most of the inhabitants were Germans and I wished to see if I might not find a
                                    favorable opportunity to buy property, either in the town itself, or nearby. I
                                    looked at several small farms during the winter, for there are many people who are
                                    willing to sell out, that they may be able to go farther into the country. The
                                    price, however, is already quite high and the money necessary to buy thirty or forty
                                    acres of land here, would buy a whole section in the newer states, Indiana,
                                            
                              Illinois, Wisconsin
                           , or 
                                        Iowa
                                    , for there is no more public (congress) land in 
                                        Ohio
                                    , because this state has been settled some twenty years.
                        I have done some butchering during the winter, because in almost every household
                                    there are from four to six hogs butchered yearly. I intended to remain in Canton and
                                    set up as a butcher. I made a wide acquaintance and began with my business in the
                                    spring, because a meat market is superfluous in the winter, when everyone has all
                                    the meat he needs in his own house. I had some business, too, but it is  rather difficult to carry on the business because I
                                    must furnish meat on trust for a year or take the goods of other tradesmen in
                                    exchange, while the farmers who raise the stock sell only for cash. Of course, there
                                    is good profit, for the livestock is sold by weight for two or two and one half
                                    cents a pound and the meat can be sold in the market for four cents. The pelt and
                                    intestinal fat pay the butcher and the head and lungs are not weighed. My business
                                    was too small and I could not have continued, because there is no cash money coming
                                    in. Even if a whole ox is placed in market, it is not possible to receive two
                                    dollars in cash; the profits might be great, but the cash income is small.
                        Since I had a greater desire for farm life than for city life, I sought the
                                    acquaintance of two families also German, who had been in Indiana, my present home,
                                    the year before and had bought land. On their advice, I decided to travel with them
                                    into the new country. I bought a horse and wagon and in August of 1843 I started out
                                    with them on the journey of 300 English miles. When we arrived, I selected a piece
                                    of land near theirs and am located so near to one of my neighbors that we can call
                                    to each other from our homes. He is an Alsatian, Frederick Knobloch (by name), and
                                    is by trade a weaver. In this country woollen blankets are used on beds, and half
                                    cotton ones too, and Mr. Knobloch, during his fifteen years residence in Canton, 
                                        Ohio
                                    , was engaged in the manufacture of this article with good profits. He
                                    said that he likes it better here than in his former home in Canton; he could carry
                                    on his trade here, for there is a great demand for his products, but he limits his
                                    work to a little weaving in winter. He has a large family that could do the work on
                                    the farm, but his presence is constantly required here or there. He is a man of
                                    excellent education and the best friend that I have ever known.
                        My farm consists of forty acres and lies near a great public highway which leads to
                                    the county seat, 
                                        Plymouth
                                    . Half a mile from my house is a lake six miles in circumference. It is
                                    full of fish and people come from a distance of twenty and twenty-five miles to fish
                                    with great nets and lines. This lake lies west of my land. Near my land lies a great
                                    forest of beechwood. On my land there are only oak trees, not very dense. This kind
                                    of land is called "Barensland" and it is easier to clear than most of the
                                    land of this region. Most of the woodlands are dense and are made up of many kinds
                                    of trees-only no soft wood. I have now sufficient cleared land inclosed to make my
                                    living; there are eight acres under cultivation.
                        At first I built but a small house. This year, however, I am engaged in building a
                                    new and larger one all of wood, as is the custom in this country. The first houses
                                    are usually built of round tree trunks, and after a few years a new house is built
                                    using hewn trunks for better joining. A carpenter is superfluous here; each man cuts
                                    his own trees or at best hires a few men to help him. When the wood is all prepared
                                    and assembled, the proprietor gathers as many men to aid him as he needs and the
                                    house, or granary, or barn is set up in one or two days; the roof is put on
                                    immediately and the task is finished without any expenditure of money; the only pay
                                    being a like service to  his friends. Of course
                                    there must be plenty to eat and drink on such occasions.
                        With God's help I am again comfortably situated. I have two large oxen, two
                                    cows, a number of young smaller cattle, and a whole herd of hogs. At first we had
                                    hard times, and this was the reason why I did not write sooner; it is true we did
                                    not suffer want, but we certainly had no luxuries. The reason beginners do not
                                    suffer want is because they can go out in the summer on the large farms at harvest
                                    time and obtain for a day's work a bushel of wheat or sixtytwo
                                        cents only with raking and binding. The man who can manipulate [a] cradle
                                    receives one hundred cents or a dollar. This operation the newly
                                    arrived Germans cannot do; the implement is very large, the scythe
                                    attached is five feet long, the rake is much heavier, in fact again as heavy as
                                    similar rakes in 
                                        Germany
                                    . It is expected that the operator cut three acres a day and the grain
                                    that is cut is immediately raked by two men and tied up into small bundles. Then
                                    come men who collect the bundles and set them up twelve in a shock; after this the
                                    threshing machine is brought into the field.
                        There are great farms in the vicinity; about fifteen or twenty miles from here are
                                    farms which have one hundred twenty-five or one hundred fifty acres of wheat alone.
                        There are two kinds of threshing machines. One which is drawn about the field by four
                                    horses and taken from one house to another; four men can manage this machine and
                                    they thresh one hundred and fifty bushels a day. The machine is so arranged that the
                                    grain is cleaned at the same time. The other kind of machine is stationary and is
                                    worked by horsepower-six horses being necessary to operate it. This machine threshes
                                    three hundred bushels a day without removing the chaff. All the straw is stacked up
                                    by other hands and is used as winter food for the stock. The straw left by the
                                    machine that I first described is burnt on the fields. Some of the farmers whose
                                    farms are not so extensive thresh with oxen or horses which tramp out the grain; and
                                    the flail is unknown.
                        Wheat is the most important crop. A farm of one hundred acres is usually arranged
                                    with sixty acres for wheat, fifteen for corn (maise), ten acres for oats, eight
                                    acres for rye, five acres for buckwheat, and two acres of potatoes.
                        The plowing here is not so laborious, for the fields are plowed but once, then
                                    harrowed twice, with a harrow. The sowing comes next and the whole field is harrowed
                                    once more. Even the virgin soil is plowed immediately, sometimes requiring two or
                                    three and even four or five yoke of oxen and extra large plows which cut roots from
                                    four to six inches in diameter and can tear out small tree stumps. If a man wishes
                                    to dig out the smaller roots of two to three inches before plowing up the field, he
                                    can go in with one yoke of oxen and a small plow. The large stumps are left in the
                                    ground until they rot. The plows have no wheels; one simply hitches oxen or horses
                                    to the beam and one can drive very near the larger stumps. We do not plow the whole
                                    field into a high bed, but every thing flat and we begin at the outside and then go
                                    all around the field until the middle is reached. The plowshare and the moldboard
                                    are of cast iron all cast in one  piece and only
                                    a piece of steel is bolted on to serve as the plowshare; the coulter is a separate
                                    piece. I will add a drawing of a plow.
                        The fields must all be fenced in by split wooden rails from ten to eleven feet long.
                                    There are several kinds of wood from which these are made. The trunks of trees are
                                    cut down and split, making from fifty to seventy rails all about four or five inches
                                    thick. These fences must, according to law, have a height of from seven to eight
                                    rails arranged in zig-zag fashion so that two lengths shall equal a rod, or sixteen
                                    and one-half feet. The herds and flocks are allowed to roam at will; and unless the
                                    fields are protected by these fences, all plowing and sowing are useless.
                        The herds are not fed except for a few months in winter and then only on hay and
                                    straw. There is but little work given to feeding; the cattle are allowed to run wild
                                    all winter, and only in the morning and evening is the feed thrown before the
                                    animals in the open field. The hay is stacked out in the open air. The stacks are
                                    fenced in and the hay is easily taken down with the pitchfork. The pigs wander about
                                    in the woods all summer long and live and grow fat on acorns and beechnuts. Some of
                                    them do not return home in the winter and their owner then looks for them in the
                                    woods and shoots them because that is the way in which all the domestic animals are
                                    killed. The butchers in towns kill the animals in the same manner in the slaughter
                                    house, and when a butcher's services are required at a distance, he sets
                                    out equipped with his gun, not because of the wildness of the animals, but because
                                    it is customary. Pigs abound; every farmer who possesses a large farm has over a
                                    hundred and each farmer has all his stock marked, generally on the ears with special
                                    kinds of cuts. The cows are accustomed to go. home mornings and evenings to be
                                    milked; they are milked anywhere under the open sky. Sheep are also kept; they take
                                    care of themselves and pasture in the woods and by the wayside.
                        A farmer with forty acres of cleared land needs and keeps no hired man, for hired men
                                    are expensive and cost at least a hundred dollars a year. The work, too, as I have
                                    remarked, is very simple; and a man with such a farm can easily look after it
                                    himself. Work is more remunerative in this country than in 
                                        Germany
                                    , and therefore men are willing to work. If the farmer wishes to put
                                    some man into his place, it will cost him fifty cents a day besides board. I know
                                    farmers who own three hundred acres of land who work with their men at all times,
                                    even though they make a clear gain of one thousand dollars a year. All men dress
                                    alike here and no one thinks that he should have greater respect shown him or that
                                    he should enjoy some higher title than his neighbor; it is all the same whether he
                                    fills some office or whether he lives by hard work.
                        All men stand on a common footing; officials are chosen for one or two years from
                                    among the people; just like the president of the country is elected for four years.
                                    Every man, after he has lived here five years, can become a citizen of the 
                                        United States
                                    . It costs him one dollar and he can vote on all questions and be
                                    elected to public office.
                        There are two political parties, democrats and aristocrats-the  latter are known as Whigs. There is great excitement
                                    when there is a governor to be elected. The excitement becomes even greater at the
                                    time of a presidential election, for the election depends on the majority of the
                                    votes. Since you all know what democracy means, you may know that the greater number
                                    of immigrants here are democrats, because they have never been aristocrats anyway.
                                    There was a presidential election in the autumn of last year in which the democrats
                                    were the victors by a considerable majority. It was said during the campaign that if
                                    the Whigs should gain the victory, no immigrant shall hereafter become a citizen
                                    with less than a twenty year's residence. Indeed the views of the Whigs are
                                    such as to violate often the principles of freedom; the motto of the Democrats is:
                                    "My country is where freedom reigns supreme."
                        The newspapermen really control the situation, especially in a presidential election.
                                    They are also, as I have said, divided into Democratic and Whig newspapermen.
                                    Everything depends on reading newspapers. I wish greatly that the people in 
                                        Germany
                                     might be able to read newspapers of this kind on such occasions so that
                                    they might appreciate the political speeches of the Whigs against the Democrats and
                                    of the Democrats against the Whigs. It is certainly necessary, therefore, that the
                                    presidential candidate be a man of spotless reputation; for each party tries to
                                    belittle the candidate of the opposing party, and even the record of his earliest
                                    youth is carefully studied to discover whether he has made any serious mistakes or
                                    committed any wrong. At the last election the Whigs went so far as to publish a
                                    caricature representing their candidate as a fox (racoon) and that of the Democrats
                                    as a rooster which was already in the clutches of the fox, because they thought
                                    their party would be successful. The Democrats were not frightened and confidently
                                    awaited the result. When the election resulted in favor of the Democrats, the
                                    processions that usually turn out to celebrate such an event marched through the
                                    streets; and instead of hurrahing, they all imitated the rooster's crowing
                                    and the foxes retreated to their holes.
                        Independence is the greatest blessing of this country, and when one goes into the
                                    cities on the Fourth of July, the anniversary of the signing of the Declaration of
                                    Independence, one finds such festivities going on as excel all similar celebrations
                                    in 
                                        Germany
                                    . It is a celebration that declares independence over again, speeches
                                    are made in English and German and the people are exhorted to do all in their power
                                    that this freedom may be preserved; a heartfelt tribute is paid to the men who
                                    gained the precious freedom of our land. After the conclusion of these speeches, it
                                    is not the custom here to give three cheers for the public officials, but all
                                    believe that the 
                                        United States
                                     form a nation of sovereign citizens who recognize no superior but God.
                                    Expressions of this character are so numerous that I could fill whole pages and
                                    everyone is filled with enthusiasm, especially a German who hears all this for the
                                    first time. It seems impossible to him that there is really a country on earth where
                                    the worth of the individual is so recognized, and it is to him a delight to hear
                                    people say: "Thank God, I, too, am an American."
                        
                        The women enjoy the greatest respect; and whenever a woman enters a place where many
                                    men are present, these, especially the Americans, immediately arise and offer her a
                                    seat. Before the court, woman is considered man's equal. Women have nothing
                                    to do but to manage the house, both in the city and in the country. They are not
                                    expected to work in the fields, and the husband builds the fire in the morning even
                                    if he has a maid in his house. The women in the country dress like those in cities.
                                    If a man wishes to marry he dare not claim a dowry for his bride and it is a rare
                                    case when parents, even wealthy ones, bestow a marriage portion at the marriage of a
                                    son or daughter.
                        The head of a family keeps his property until death calls him and not till then can
                                    the children claim their share. The children must work for or with their parents
                                    until they are of age-young men twenty-one years and young women eighteen-and after
                                    that they may keep what they earn to buy as much land as one wishes. Public land is
                                    to be had for a dollar and twenty-five cents an acre, so that young people have an
                                    easy start in life. With one hundred dollars one can buy eighty acres of land.
                        Sometimes a young man prefers to learn a trade, and even as an apprentice he earns
                                    sixty dollars and after the second year as much as one hundred dollars according to
                                    choice of profession. If a young boy of 14 or 15 years is bound out, as in 
                                        Germany
                                    , he is kept in clothing; and when he leaves his master after the
                                    completion of service, he is furnished with new clothes from head to foot. Hiring
                                    out for a stipulation and emancipation are unknown here.
                        When the girls are of age, they rarely remain at home, even if the parents are well
                                    situated; but they go to work in cities where they earn a dollar a week and that for
                                    light work. They only help with the washing and cooking, and often dress more finely
                                    than their employers. They wear hats, veils, and cloaks and go into the same company
                                    with their mistress or daughter or go riding with the family. If they are sought for
                                    service, they do not go there on foot. If their parents cannot take them, they are
                                    called for by the new master or he has some one get them in a buggy (chaise) to take
                                    them where they are needed. If they wish to visit their parents at any time, they
                                    are driven or many ride on horseback.
                        In case of the death of a wife, the husband inherits all the property and has
                                    absolute control over the children. If he wishes to do so, he may marry again
                                    without providing a guardian for his children. If the husband dies, the wife
                                    inherits one-third of the property and the children two-thirds. Whether there are
                                    many or few children, the latter must work for their mother until they are of age.
                                    If the mother does not marry again the whole property remains intact, but if the
                                    mother does marry, the children, from the time they are eleven years of age, receive
                                    the interest on their respective shares. The parents have great benefits from their
                                    children here.
                        The attendance at school is not compulsory, and there is no expense for tuition in
                                    winter. The reason for this fact is that every sixteenth section of land is set
                                    aside for the support of the schools (and is either sold or leased) to which the
                                    children have access from their fourth year until they are of age. When such land is
                                    sold,  one-third of the sale money is
                                    permanently placed in a fund. The interest of this fund is collected with the annual
                                    taxes and added to the school fund. The teachers are hired by the year; the
                                    ministers likewise. The children are instructed in English because this is the
                                    language of the country. They may learn German from their parents.
                        If it is the wish of the parents that their children should be confirmed, the
                                    minister provides the required preparation once each year. Since there is no
                                    definite age limit, many times the young people are eighteen or twenty years old
                                    before the confirmation can take place. The churches are arranged to suit the
                                    community. Where there are Germans, there is a German minister. Here in our
                                    settlement, which is eight years old, there are several hundred inhabitants, and the
                                    number is increased each year by from ten to fifteen newcomers, for the most part
                                    Germans. There are two German Evangelical Lutheran churches and two English schools.
                                    The two churches are under the care of one pastor, so that the preaching service is
                                    held in each on alternate Sundays. The minister receives one dollar yearly from each
                                    family that attends his church and is willing to make this contribution, for there
                                    is no compulsion about it. The minister is expected to look after the spiritual
                                    welfare of his charges, officiate on all occasions, serious or joyful, for one
                                    dollar a family without extra pay, unless the people are willing to show their
                                    appreciation of his services in a more substantial manner. The churches are also
                                    blockhouses like the schools and are built by the settlers for the purpose. The
                                    inner arrangements are Very simple; rough benches, often no glass in the windows. In
                                    winter the windows are covered with paper t hat has been covered with fat.
                        In order to get more work from the children, the boys do not have the opportunity to
                                    associate much with their young friends, except on Sundays. They work hard from
                                    their earliest youth, and at twelve years of age the boys do not fear to try their
                                    hand at cutting down the largest trees and are very clever, successful hunters and
                                    deer hunters. There are in my neighborhood several boys from twelve to fifteen years
                                    old, each of whom has shot from ten to twelve deer this winter; each of these boys
                                    tries to excel the other in all things. The girls are early skilled in cooking,
                                    washing, sewing, and knitting and all kinds of work. The women make their own
                                    clothing and also that of the men. It is really unnecessary for a girl in 
                                        Germany
                                     who desires to come to America to learn to sew first, because she can
                                    learn this easily from any good housewife in this country. If parents have more
                                    children than they can employ at home, they send them from home to work and keep the
                                    earnings. The children receive nothing from their parents but their clothing until
                                    they are of age. The boys do not need much money, for it is not customary to visit
                                    the inns; but should one wish to do such a thing, or perhaps twice a year it should
                                    happen that they attend a dance, they will manage to earn enough with hunting to
                                    cover their expenses.
                        Of course there is always a dance held in this settlement when a house or barn is set
                                    up or when wood logs have been rolled together for burning or log rolling. All the
                                    young people are invited but the men and boys do all there is to do. The girls piece
                                    a quilt  for the same people, and this quilt is
                                    stretched into a frame at which from ten to fifteen girls can work until evening.
                                    Then in the evening comes the dance and this is called frolic (a joyful occasion).
                                    Eating and drinking of course are free. The music is crude-a fiddle and a
                                    flute,-that is all and for this purpose we have a few boys who receive no
                                    compensation. They do not work all day; they usually come for the noon meal and
                                    spend the afternoon talking to the girls.
                        There is no conscription in this land and soldiers are hired like servants. Men go if
                                    they have a desire for military service. There are not so many soldiers as in 
                                        Germany
                                    , the frontiers are guarded and that is about all. In an emergency,
                                    every man is considered a soldier until he is fifty years old and in the older
                                    states they wear uniforms and must learn to drill, but there is no living in
                                    barracks. This condition does not exist in this state nor in any of the newer ones,
                                    but each man from the twenty-first to the fiftieth year must pay a tax of one dollar
                                    for this purpose-poll tax.
                        Good conduct and virtuous living are the pride of the American youth. Even the
                                    children from their earliest youth are more courageous, or independent, because they
                                    know nothing of one person receiving greater respect than others, and they are not
                                    timid before anyone. The grown young people manifest a polite respect to another and
                                    it seldom happens (I know of no case) that a young woman has a child before she is
                                    married. It often happens that a courtship lasts for several years. The young man
                                    visits the young lady every Sunday. He is received by her parents in a friendly
                                    manner and is given a place at the table. If he lives at a considerable distance, he
                                    may spend the night in the home, but he must not sleep in the same room with his
                                    fiance until after the marriage ceremony. The marriage license costs one dollar. The
                                    minister, or the squire, usually receives a dollar for performing a marriage
                                    ceremony and frequently performs the ceremony gratis. If the bride and groom, who
                                    are of age, decide to marry, no one offers any objection and the whole 
                                        United States
                                     is open to them.
                        Should it happen that people through sickness or other misfortunes fail in life, they
                                    can find refuge, ablebodied or not, in a county poorhouse which is a feature of
                                    every county and to which is given a whole section of land portioned out by the
                                    government. There is a superintendent for each such county farm. There are also
                                    several commissioners, elected by the people, whose duty it is to inspect the
                                    establishment from time to time. There is furthermore a physician for the inmates
                                    and servants look after the work. No inmate need pay anything to gain admission and
                                    often the proceeds of the farm exceed the expenses. The inmates receive just as good
                                    fare as is customary in private houses. Of the giving of alms and begging, we know
                                    nothing.
                        Concerning the taxes, these are not the same in all states because the debts of one
                                    state may exceed those of another, on account of the canals and railroads and other
                                    enterprises that are carried on by the state government with the assent of the
                                    inhabitants. Here in the state of Indiana, we have first, for men from twenty-one to
                                    fifty years, the poll tax. This takes the place of  military service. Then there is a tax on livestock and
                                    furniture which is assessed each year, but not high, perhaps for half of its value,
                                    and the rate is not the same each year; usually it is sixty or sixty-two cents on
                                    the hundred dollars. The first hundred dollars are at present free and likewise the
                                    things most essential to keeping house. It is a large household that pays sixty to
                                    sixty-two cents household tax.
                        Public land is free from taxation for five years after purchase; after the expiration
                                    of this time, the tax is one cent an acre. This tax can be paid by working on public
                                    roads, and besides each man between the ages of twenty-one and fifty must work two
                                    days additional on the roads. If the taxes are not paid within the period allowed by
                                    law, there is no collector sent until after two years; and if the taxes are not paid
                                    then, the land is advertised for sale at the county court house by the county
                                    officials and sold to the highest bidder at any price. Landowners are very careful
                                    and always pay for the previous year if they cannot pay every year. Trademen pay no
                                    taxes on their trade, simply on their stock and other property. Capitalists must pay
                                    taxes on their capital and the proprietors of inns and saloons must pay taxes and
                                    buy a license besides.
                        Often I debated with myself and have spoken to Germans who have come from 
                                        Germany
                                     and asked them whether it were wise to encourage others to emigrate to
                                    America, and all agree with me that they would at no price return to 
                                        Germany
                                     to reside. At first each newcomer suffers some hardships, as you
                                    yourselves may imagine. Upon arriving, one does not know where it is best to settle;
                                    when this is finally decided, one is without the necessary equipments, a stranger to
                                    everyone, and no one must imagine that the Americans are waiting for the immigrants
                                    or that money can be so easily gained as so many imagine. It is not rare that at
                                    first the immigrants regret their coming and wish themselves back in 
                                        Germany
                                    , yet after a few years one can easily establish himself and the longing
                                    for the old home gradually dies out. I know many who came without means and are now
                                    more prosperous than they could ever have become in 
                                        Germany
                                    . Even if these people do not become wealthy, they do have the same
                                    opportunities as the wealthy and often have more meat to eat than they have potatoes
                                    in 
                                        Germany
                                    .
                        A man with a large family acts in the interests of his children by coming, even if
                                    the greatest part of his belongings must be sacrificed for the journey and life may
                                    be somewhat difficult for him. He need have no fear of want, even if [he] may have
                                    to toil hard. The children are obligated to support their parents and the old people
                                    fare better here than in 
                                        Germany
                                    . What does it amount to if a father in 
                                        Germany
                                     gives his children a marriage portion that equals the cost of a trip to
                                    America? There is so little accomplished with it; it takes all of the
                                    money to get married and then they have nothing to begin with. If a man does not
                                    wish to undertake this journey on account of advanced age or for some other reason,
                                    he can do nothing better than to help his children emigrate to America, and the
                                    results of this emigration will surely be so valuable that the younger descendants
                                    will thank the ancestor who has afforded  them
                                    the blessings of this land. The young people soon adapt themselves to the customs;
                                    the girls, especially are eagerly sought after for maid service and have ample
                                    opportunity to marry well as soon as they desire.
                        Although I can vouch for every word that I now write, I urge no one to come but think
                                    that each one must decide for himself; for I know of many cases where the first
                                    disappointment of the newcomer has caused him to reproach those who encouraged his
                                    coming. Although they do their best for the newcomer, it is never enough. In this
                                    way those often become enemies who ought to be good friends, and I myself always
                                    hold back even when I heartily wish for this or that good friend. If any of you with
                                    families should wish to come, I advise you to make one of the new states your
                                    objective point: Indiana, 
                              Illinois, Wisconsin
                            or 
                                        Iowa
                                     would be good and furthermore I should advise you to make farming your
                                    principle business and your own trade or profession a secondary matter. If single
                                    men come, they will very easily find a suitable location anywhere. If the immigrant
                                    has too little money to buy land, although it is very cheap, it will be best to try
                                    farm work. There are houses to be had in which to carry on a trade and it is easy to
                                    keep cows and pigs, and there will be no expense for wood. A few acres can be rented
                                    for a small amount and the rent paid in work.
                        There are many farms rented out on half-shares. All rent is paid from the products
                                    raised. The tenant furnishes half of the seed and all the work.
                        Most of the grain is sold at the mill. The millers pack the flour in barrels and send
                                    it over the canals to the harbors. The mills are so well constructed that two sets
                                    of millstones can grind in twenty-four hours three hundred bushels of wheat. The
                                    grain is all ground dry and poured out but once, and the wheat is all sold according
                                    to weight. Each bushel must weigh sixty pounds; if it weighs more, the extra weight
                                    is paid for and if it weighs less, the price is reduced. The miller receives one
                                    ninth for grinding. The nearest mill is eight miles from my house at the county
                                    seat, 
                                        Plymouth
                                    ; it was built only this year; before that time we had to go twenty
                                    miles. A whole load of wheat, twenty bushels, is ground in one hour.
                        Now I shall say a little concerning the trades. Shoemakers have a
                                    good trade, but they must learn over again. Most of their work is pegged, that is,
                                    the soles are fastened with little wooden pegs. This is good work that is easily
                                    done. The inner sole is made of sole leather so that it may hold the pegs without
                                    seams and is therefore also a sole; then there is the outer sole. Such shoes can
                                    last a year and the price is three dollars. A large cow skin costs seven dollars,
                                    the sole leather costs a quarter of a dollar per pound, so that by making a pair a
                                    day which a shoemaker can easily do, he can earn one dollar a day. Weavers,
                                    especially those who understand how to do the finer weaving, can make blankets and
                                    also earn a dollar. They have only custom work.
                        Smiths too have a profitable work. The construction of a common oxcart costs eighteen
                                    dollars, simply for the work, and of this  there
                                    is less than on a similar conveyance in 
                                        Germany
                                    . A pound of chain costs from eighteen to twenty cents, iron costs from
                                    six to eight cents a pound; to shoe a horse one must pay a dollar. An anvil and vise
                                    cost eighteen cents per pound at the factory. Woodworkers, waggoners,
                                        carpenters, turners, wheelmakers, and coopers all have good trades. A
                                    spinningwheel such as the turner Riess in Arzberg delivers to Wiinsiedel, costs
                                    three and one-half dollars. Wood is not dear and for one who lives in the country,
                                    it costs nothing. Waggoners receive for a wagon including wages
                                    and wood from sixteen to eighteen dollars, coopers have as many
                                    barrels to make for the miller as they can furnish at thirty-one cents apiece.
                                    Whoever works for a factory gets twenty-five cents and he can easily make six
                                    barrels a day each with a capacity of one hundred ninety-six pounds of wheat flour.
                        
                           Tanners buy a pound of ox hide for four cents, leather costs
                                    twenty-five. Tin-smiths have a lucrative trade, for in every house
                                    tinware is used where we in 
                                        Germany
                                     use crockery and earthenware. Saddlers can prosper,
                                    for there is a great demand for saddles and harness, because horses are so common. A
                                    very simple harness costs twelve dollars; saddles have prices according to type;
                                    sidesaddles are most expensive. Hatters are in demand, for hats
                                    are more commonly worn than in 
                                        Germany
                                    . A plain felt hat costs a dollar, and other prices vary to five
                                    dollars. Locksmiths have little to do if they do not work in
                                    factories; locks are sold in every store. One does not use many locks. The windows
                                    all over the land are made to slide up and down and there is no locksmith's
                                    work on any of them. Glaziers do not exist. The glass is already
                                    cut according to inch and number, and is bought at stores at low prices and one can
                                    easily put it into windows by means of putty.
                        
                           Bakers can do no business in the country, nor even in country
                                    towns, because whitebread is baked in every house; even in inns the bread is baked
                                    by the people there employed. Bakers can succeed only in large cities and then they
                                    must be able to bake cake and pastry. Inland towns do not have bakeries.
                        
                           Brewers have a good business. The products, barley, hops, and wood
                                    are cheap and there are almost no expenses. The beer brings a good price, six cents
                                    a quart, but there is not enough demand for it. The people here are not accustomed
                                    to beer-drinking and the brewer must deliver his beer in small kegs, often at a
                                    distance of from twenty-five to thirty miles. Distilleries are more profitable than
                                    breweries, for whisky is a common drink; it is made of corn and rye. In summer
                                    during the harvest time a wagon loaded with whisky and water is constantly taken
                                    about the field to supply the harvesters with something to drink. It is customary
                                    here to first take a drink of whisky and then a swallow of water.
                        
                           Coppersmiths are tinsmiths as well. A pound of copper in a kettle
                                    costs fifty cents. The ropemaker finds employment. There is
                                    constant demand for ropes. The beds have ropes stretched across as a foundation for
                                    the bedding. Price fifty cents. Besides ropes and cords are much used for fly-nets
                                    for horses, fishnets, etc. This is their best outlet. Tailors fare
                                    better in large cities where. it is  best to
                                    combine a store with the making of men's garments, if the business is
                                    expected to prosper. There is little custom work. Soapmakers and
                                        dyers are unknown to me. I know that the people in the country
                                    and in the country-towns make their own candles and soap. They also do considerable
                                    dyeing and can easily get anything they wish at the stores. Potters can do nothing but make milk crocks and jars for preserving other
                                    products. This ware is not used for cooking and the heavier cooking vessels are made
                                    of cast iron. The stoves, too, are made of iron instead of tiling. Many people who
                                    have plenty of wood have no stoves at all, but have great fireplaces where great
                                    logs of wood can be burned.
                        There are no nailsmiths here, and the nails are made by machinery
                                    and sold for six or seven cents a pound. Goldsmiths have nothing
                                    at all to do and hosiers likewise find no employment. In the
                                    summer light cotton hose are worn and these come for a small sum from 
                                        England
                                    . The people knit their own wool hose. A manufacturer of
                                        pewter has never been seen or heard of here, for in place of pewter we have
                                    porcelain or chinaware which is very cheap and pewter ware is not used. Masons can find work only in large cities where they receive work
                                    according to the number of tile (bricks) laid, reckoned by the hundred. They may
                                    earn from one dollar to one and a quarter dollars a day. Carpenters must first learn from joiners and they can make the same wages in
                                    cities as the masons. They are called building carpenters here.
                        
                           Bittchers cannot do well. In most of the smaller cities a butcher
                                    cannot make his living because farmers bring in the needed meat supplies and in
                                    summer people do not care for fresh meat, but prefer smoked meat, and fowls, spring
                                    chickens. Butchers can do better in the seacoast cities, but there the success of a
                                    new arrival is uncertain on account of his ignorance of the language. Because of the
                                    large private orders, the business is conducted on a large scale. As assistant for
                                    some butcher, a man, if he has learned the trade acceptably, can earn from thirteen
                                    to fifteen dollars and board. Taken all in all, the wages are good, but I must add
                                    this warning, that no one should calculate in advance how much he can lay aside in
                                    this or that period of time, for there is little money to be had and if a tradesman
                                    happens to need a certain sum, it is very hard for him to collect it and to keep up
                                    his business and have cash for wages. In fact all tradesmen must carry on a constant
                                    exchange of work or give orders on one another.
                        The stores are so arranged that everything that a man needs can be had at one place.
                                    Many tradespeople work in these stores and must take goods in exchange for the work
                                    and of course live very comfortably. In this way checks or drafts originate. They
                                    can even build a house without money in a small town in this way, provided they can
                                    buy a lot, one-third of an acre for house and garden. This is the way towns are laid
                                    out. The prices vary according to the distance a town is located from a large
                                    trading center. In the towns in this region, the lots cost from $25 to
                                    $50.
                        The stores are the chief meeting places of the people from the country, because they
                                    can exchange all their produce here. Butter, 
                                    eggs, feathers, lard, tallow, hams, smoked meat, pelts, furs, soap, fruit, honey,
                                    wool, etc., and all kinds of grains and vegetables. The prices of store-goods are
                                    fixed and there is no use to bargain and dicker, and the price of produce varies
                                    with the season. It is all the same whether a man or a child comes into the store to
                                    trade.
                        If the storekeeper has a quantity of the above-mentioned produce, he sends it to the
                                    larger cities or elsewhere, and receives either money or goods in exchange. On this
                                    account farming is the best occupation; wheat and livestock are the only things that
                                    bring cash at any time, and the farmers are able to pay their hired men and girls in
                                    cash, and they always have everything that people in the cities cannot have at all
                                    times: farmers live comfortably and eat as well as they please. At all meals they
                                    have meat, coffee, butter, eggs, etc. and nearly every day cake, cookies, and fruit.
                                    The farmer and his family dine in company with their servants and each one eats to
                                    suit his pleasure, for the food prepared is all placed upon the table-at once and
                                    generally so much that a portion of it is left. In harvest time when many people are
                                    assembled there is so much and such a variety that I could not begin to mention
                                    everything, and it would seem incredible to you. The tables are neatly set, also
                                    adorned with all kinds of flowers and the women and girls wait on the tables while
                                    the men are eating. When the men have finished eating, the table is set again with
                                    clean plates and tableware and the women and children eat their food. It is
                                    customary in the. whole country that where there are many men, they eat first.
                        Of course, during the first few years the new settler cannot live on such abundance
                                    and yet he fares better than in 
                                        Germany
                                    ; for whoever has acquired a few cows and can butcher some hogs need not
                                    fear want. I, as a beginner, have slaughtered six fat hogs this year, besides, there
                                    are chickens, ducks, geese, and wild game in abundance. Deer can be shot without
                                    great difficulty and there are hares and many wild ducks and turkeys, quails,
                                    partridges, pheasants and pigeons, and other animals unknown in 
                                        Germany
                                    . Fish, too, are large and abundant.
                        Although the people in the country live for the most part in log houses, they are
                                    happy and carefree. People and animals do not live under the same roof. The stables
                                    and pigsties must be at least fifty paces from the house, and the Americans are very
                                    fond of cleanliness in every respect. They are very proud of their white linen and
                                    cotton garments which are all carefully ironed. Frequenting saloons and cardplaying
                                    are not very common here and one soon learns to forget it entirely. Playing for
                                    money is forbidden and for this reason no one seems to care for cards. If
                                    occasionally on a visit to town one should desire a glass of beer, one must pay
                                    three cents for it. The barkeeper stands behind his bar as an apothecary behind his
                                    counter in 
                                        Germany
                                    . If a glass of brandy is desired, the barkeeper sets out a bottle with
                                    a glass and the customer pours out what he wishes. If the customer asks for beer,
                                    the barkeeper fills a glass and places it on the counter from whence the guest takes
                                    it. One can drink as much as he likes. There are no tables in the room, although
                                    there are chairs to sit down. One can go into such an establishment  without drinking anything. The barkeeper does not offer
                                    a drink if none is demanded.
                        There is diversion and entertainment enough. The settlers visit one another at a
                                    distance of several miles. The man walks or rides with his family, even if he has
                                    only an oxcart. Generally there is a gathering on Sunday planned beforehand and
                                    often five or six families meet in this way. The people are very hospitable and
                                    entertain as if it were one of our fairs, and the meetings are very pleasant.
                        You may like to know the manner of cutting wood and the means of getting it off the
                                    land. The smaller trees up to eighteen inches in diameter are chopped down; the
                                    larger ones are first killed by chopping through the bark several inches deep; in a
                                    few years they are dry, then they are easily cut down and, with the aid of the
                                    limbs, burn the trunks into logs ten feet to twelve feet long. The smaller trees are
                                    chopped up during the winter, and in the spring the farmers from fifteen to twenty
                                    in number come together, and with oxen collect the logs into large heaps-about
                                    fifteen or twenty in a heap-and then it can be burned. The wood is not sawed but
                                    chopped. For this they use a new kind of ax, not so long as those in your district,
                                    but at least five inches wide. One man can chop as much as two men can saw. The
                                    chopper stands upon the logs and chops at a spot between his feet, halfway through
                                    on each side. It looks so dangerous that a man who looks on for the first time
                                    becomes frightened and thinks the man who is chopping so busily will surely cut off
                                    his feet. This ax has a very thin handle and is not drawn in a straight line, but
                                    describes a curve over the head of the man who wields it. The new Germans can not do
                                    this at first and now I myself must laugh, when I see the) newly arrived German
                                    handling the American ax so awkwardly. It amuses me to think of my first efforts in
                                    cutting a tree.
                        I must remark that the Americans possess more skill and adaptability for any kind of
                                    work that is to be learned than the Germans. Their tools, too, are better suited to
                                    the work and easier to handle, those of the farmer as well as those of a tradesman.
                                    The edged tools are of extraordinary excellence, a good ax costs two dollars, a
                                    scythe one and a half. The latter are strong but very narrow and are not sharpened
                                    by means of a hammer, but are ground like a knife. A scythe is three inches (two
                                    fingers) wide and four feet long, some even longer. A cradle scythe is three fingers
                                    wide and five feet long; it costs two dollars; the frame costs the same amount; an
                                    ordinary plow costs from eight to ten dollars; the share itself costs three dollars
                                    and many people make the framework themselves.
                        If anyone should desire to come to this part of the country, he could still find much
                                    land to buy, although the best portions of the public lands are already sold. Here
                                    and there land is still to be had for three dollars an acre, and right near me there
                                    is a whole section, six hundred and forty acres-enough for eight families at that
                                    price. Besides there are numerous pieces of land in the settlement, containing forty
                                    acres or eighty acres for sale. There is always land to be had on which there are
                                    houses and other buildings and some acres of cleared land. Not far from me there was
                                    sold durLetter  the winter a piece of forty
                                    acres with a house, granary, barn and twelve acres of cleared land, fenced, for two
                                    hundred twentyfive dollars. At any time one can buy large farms for from five to ten
                                    thousand dollars if one has the money. Where the land is most densely covered with
                                    large trees, it costs about ten dollars to clear an acre and fence the land. The
                                    owner must roll the logs together and burn them.
                        The soil is best in the thick forest, although it is good anywhere and one can raise
                                    any kind of crop without fertilizing. Besides the articles that I have enumerated
                                    once before, one can also raise flax and hemp, hops, barley, excellent tobacco and
                                    all kinds of garden vegetables, also melons and pumpkins and squashes. The latter
                                    are planted in the cornfields at the same time as the corn; a few seeds to every
                                    third or fourth corn hill and they grow in great abundance; they furnish excellent
                                    food for the animals, especially to fatten the pigs. The people use them to make a
                                    kind of syrup or jam. One cooks them, presses the juice out and boils it until it
                                    thickens. It is delicious when spread on bread. This preparation is found in every
                                    household and is served every day from year to year.
                        Much fruit is raised here, especially apples, peaches, plums, cherries, and pears.
                                    Prunes do not thrive. Wine grapes do well and many wild grapes that are very good
                                    grow in the woods. In the older states, the farmers have great orchards of apple
                                    trees, so that much cider is made which lasts the whole year and can even be sold
                                    because of the great plenty. In the newer sections there are already many trees, but
                                    they are yet too young, but the results are so excellent that in six years one can
                                    eat fruit from seeds that one has planted himself. Peach trees bear in four years.
                        There are also many birds but all are different from those in your part of 
                                        Germany
                                     with the exception of the great titmouse [chickadee?]. There
                                    are many of great beauty, all brilliant red and blue-the latter is the morning
                                    thrush which sings most beautifully. The farmers make little houses for these
                                    feathered songsters, and in cities, too, they are kindly protected. It is not
                                    customary to imprison the singing birds in cages, for even these birds enjoy their
                                    freedoom. There are many hummingbirds to be seen and I find them at all times in my
                                    garden every summer.
                        This part of Indiana is more beautiful than those parts of the state of
                                            
                              New York, Ohio
                           , and 
                                        Michigan
                                     that I have seen. In those states the land is hilly. The land here is
                                    mostly level, the climate healthful, and the summers do not become so hot, nor the
                                    winter so continuously cold as in 
                                        Germany
                                    . The autumn is the most beautiful season; until Christmas it is
                                    pleasant and in March it is no longer necessary to feed the livestock. The longest
                                    day is one hour and forty-one minutes shorter and the shortest day just as much
                                    longer as our German summer and winter solstice. The land where we live lies between
                                    the ninth and tenth degree longitude and the forty-first and forty-second degree of
                                    latitude.
                        Tlie best journey here from 
                                        New York
                                     is by way of 
                                        Albany
                                    , Buffalo, and 
                                        Chicago
                                    . It is a thousand English miles from 
                                        New York
                                     to 
                                        Chicago
                                    . From 
                                        Chicago
                                     to 
                                        St. Joseph
                                     and from there to 
                                    
                                        South Bend
                                     is ninety miles. Prom 
                                        South Bend
                                     to my home is eighteen miles more. Inquire at 
                                        South Bend
                                     for the Yellow River road and by inquiring after me at the tailor shop
                                    of a man named Mr. Lamete all information concerning me and my home can be obtained.
                                    The best thing to do is to apply to the German company at 
                                        New York
                                     and make a contract there as to your destination. There is one assured
                                    against fraud, and this is also the cheapest course to pursue. From 
                                        New York
                                     to 
                                        Albany
                                     by steamboat, to Buffalo by canal boat and from there one can go on
                                    Lake Erie wherever one pleases: 
                              Illinois, Ohio
                           ,
                                    Indiana, 
                                        Michigan
                                    , or 
                                        Wisconsin
                                    . For him who wishes to go to Indiana, it is best to go by boat from
                                    Buffalo to 
                                        Chicago
                                    ; the journey from 
                                        New York
                                     to 
                                        Chicago
                                     takes two weeks. At Buffalo one can get boats daily for 
                                        Chicago
                                    , and frequently to 
                                        St. Joseph
                                     from 
                                        Chicago
                                    , it is sometimes possible to find an opportunity to come by wagon to
                                    our neighborhood.
                        The price of transportation by canal boat or steamer is one cent a mile, without
                                    meals, for passengers and the same price for a hundred weight of baggage; forty
                                    pounds are carried free of charge. Whoever wishes to go to one of the new states
                                    must have at least one hundred and fifty or one hundred and seventy-five florins for
                                    traveling expenses. Single men can remain at 
                                        New York
                                     or elsewhere along the way and earn their fare to go farther west.
                        I would further advise not to take much baggage from 
                                        Germany
                                    -not even clothing, or other kinds of baggage; it causes trouble in the
                                    transportation and costs much money. It might be well to take good substantial
                                    working clothes for a few years, but no' money should be spent on good clothes,
                                    especially clothing for women. Calico, merino, and the heavier cotton goods are very
                                    cheap, cheaper than in 
                                        Germany
                                    . Clothes are easily earned, since one can exchange produce for the
                                    material, and the ready money will be so much more useful and can be so much more
                                    judiciously expended. Then people ought not to bring their German pipes; the
                                    Americans laugh at them-such large pipes-even the Germans laugh at them, after they
                                    have been here a few years. Everybody smokes clay pipes here. There are also others
                                    of the same size made of porcelain and wood; most men chew tobacco and for this
                                    purpose there is a good kind, pressed and sweetened with sugar, at twenty-five cents
                                    a pound. (One cent is 11/2 German Kruetzer.) Many American women smoke.
                        What I know of firearms I will also report. The real Americans want none but domestic
                                    made guns, and no muskets but only rifles; these are long and shoot a small ball of
                                    the size of a sweet pea. One must hunt deer with bullets, and the men are good
                                    marksmen and never miss at two hundred paces; and they shoot squirrels from the
                                    highest trees, hitting every nine out of ten. The price of such a rifle is from
                                    sixteen to twenty dollars. Immigrants who wish to learn to shoot can do better with
                                    a musket than a rifle when their aim is small game.
                        I wish to tell you also how hay is made here. There are often meadowlands near the
                                    forests and there the people do not care to buy because they often are too wet for
                                    agricultural purposes. There are many such meadows in my vicinity. The grass grows
                                    as high as a  table and in some parts is very
                                    good. This can be cut for hay as much as one wishes. To improve it all and to gain
                                    better access for the pursuit of game, this grass is set afire in late fall. It is a
                                    beautiful sight to see such a large meadow on fire and many thousand loads of hay
                                    are thus destroyed. Stockraising is very easy and entails no expense. The average
                                    price of a couple of oxen is forty dollars, of a cow, ten dollars.
                        It is best to have the money exchanged for five frankpieces in silver, for with every
                                    other kind of currency one loses by the exchange and with these pieces, there is a
                                    gain of a kruetzer. In gold louis d'or and double louis d'ors are good as there is
                                    no loss with them; on the contrary, they can often be exchanged at a profit for
                                    eight dollars or twenty florins. If sums of money, legacies, etc., are to be sent
                                    over these can be safely forwarded through merchants. All merchants buy their goods
                                    in the cities on the coast and so these transactions can be made with drafts. One
                                    can easily find out what kinds of exchange are most satisfactory.
                        I do not intend that my letter shall be a means of enticing people in comfortable
                                    circumstances to America. Let each one carefully consider the coming as a weighty
                                    matter and carefully compare the conditions under which they now live; and their
                                    prospects with those that they may find here. If then they think that my reports are
                                    favorable, and that America might be a better home for them, then let them
                                    courageously undertake the voyage trusting in the help and protection of the good
                                    God. Let them be firm and strong, not like a weak reed that the wind sways to and
                                    fro, and, if during the first few years they should suffer adversity, let them
                                    consider the advantages of this country over 
                                        Germany
                                     and I can assure they will learn to content themselves. All who are
                                    diligent will find that they need never suffer want in this country. I know a number
                                    of people who live in the Iron Mountain Region for whom America would be a better
                                    home than 
                                        Germany
                                     is. These people also have the necessary means to make the trip, but I
                                    shall not name them, for they know their own situation better than I do if they care
                                    to think it over.
                        At the request of many friends and acquaintances I have written this letter and I
                                    have done this conscientiously so that I can stand responsible for every word
                                    written by me. Before I left my native land I read letters and books and have
                                    learned by experience that everything is not as represented, for people differ from
                                    one another; there are many who look upon America as a paradise and speak
                                    disparagingly of 
                                        Germany
                                    ; some are but superficially acquainted with the conditions of the
                                    country and yet they write many things of which they are not perfectly sure, so that
                                    they may have the opportunity of exciting the admiration of the people in their own
                                    country. Some do this in the first year when they themselves have nothing. I
                                    therefore wish that this letter may be read by many people so that they may think
                                    neither more nor less of this land, and I should further wish that each one who
                                    reads in this letter may contribute something to the cost of mailing it so that it
                                    does not become too heavy a burden. (I can only pay the postage to 
                                        New York
                                    .) Of course, I am hoping for a reply.
                        
                        I must likewise remark that I shall not write again for some years unless
                                    circumstances should shape themselves so that this will be very desirable, and then
                                    I shall speak more concerning myself and my family. So far as I am concerned, I am
                                    now, thank God, well and strong, contented and happy and only regret that I have not
                                    come to this country sooner. My wife, I am sorry to say, has not been well for a
                                    year and a half; yet she is better than last year. We have another little daughter,
                                    Christina Dorothea; she is three years old and she is a great joy to us.
                        So we send our heartiest greetings to all our relatives and friends as well as to our
                                    neighbors and acquaintances who saw us off, and hope that they may be in the best of
                                    health and that my letter may be received at Arzberg at my friend's the
                                    baker, Carl Muessel. So farewell to all.
                        
                                    Johann Wolfgang Schreyer, in the state of Indiana, in North
                                        America.
                                
                        NOTES: All states are divided into counties, a county is the same as in Bavaria
                                    [landesbezirk] a judicial district [a district under the jurisdiction of a justice
                                    of the peace], and the counties are subdivided into townships or districts. An acre
                                    is 13 square rods and a rod is 161/2 square feet. A foot is equal to the Prussian
                                    standard. A bushel equals a Bavarian "metzen," as nearly as
                                    possible a quart is equal to three quarters of the Bavarian "Maas"; the
                                    pound is equal to twenty-eight Bavarian "Loth," or 1/30- of a
                                    pound; a yard is three feet of American measure, a dollar is two florins thirty
                                    Pfennigs in Bavarian money or one hundred cents, a shilling is one eighth of a
                                    dollar; the cent is the smallest coin and is made of copper; the American
                                    coat-of-arms is an eagle on the wing; the flag is made of red and white stripes with
                                    a blue field covered with stars in the upper lefthand corner. (There are as many
                                    stars as states in the union.) A pound of salt costs one and one-half cents, by the
                                    barrel one cent; three English miles equal one hour's walk; the price of
                                    wheat is the same for hardly one week; the current prices and market reports come
                                    from seaports and are published in newspapers. This year the price after the harvest
                                    was fifty cents; late in the fall much was exported to 
                                        Ireland
                                     and 
                                        Scotland
                                    . Later the price went up to one dollar and at present it is fifty
                                    cents. The prospect for wheat harvest this year is good. A bushel of potatoes costs
                                    twenty-five cents; a bushel of corn is twenty-five cents, rye thirty-six cents,
                                    barley thirtyone cents, a quart of beer six cents, brandy from eight to twelve
                                    cents, a pound of butter from eight to twelve cents, a dozen eggs six to eight
                                    cents, a pound of meat four cents, coffee ten to twelve cents, sugar eight to ten
                                    cents, sheep's wool thirty-one cents and feathers thirty-one
                                cents.
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  1 Massillon, 
                            Ohio
                        .
            
            
            ANSWER TO JOHANN SCHREYER'S LETTER BY JON. MELCHIOR MEYER.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Haag,
                           
                                    22, of September, 1846.
                                
                        Dear brother-in-law and sister-in-law!
                        Your letter, dated June 22, 1846, we received well preserved on the eleventh of
                                    August and to our very great joy we have noticed that you are in good health, just
                                    as your letter found us all well.
                        Now first of all, I must report concerning the excitement which your letter created
                                    in all the country around. On the eleventh of August the mail carrier from Redwiz
                                    came to my house and said: "I have a letter addressed to you and to Mr.
                                    Neidhardt in Seussen. Is some friend of yours in America?" I replied:
                                    "Yes, but we have always thought, that they are all dead, because we have
                                    heard nothing at all of them during these long years of absence."
                                    "Well," he said, "here is a letter, but there are charges
                                    amounting to 9 florins and 3 krz." I immediately saw your handwriting, dear
                                    brother-in-law, and stood as if petrified at the sight of the letter. I ran at once
                                    to our cousin, Neidhardt, at Seussen, and together we repaired to the post office at
                                    Redwiz, paid the 9 florins and 3 krz. and took the letter with us. We broke the
                                    seals quickly and cousin Neidhardt took the precious letter from you, dear
                                    sister-in-law, and said to me: "She wants you to send your
                                    daughters." I looked and when I saw this, I wept like a child for joy and
                                    said: "0, if my dear deceased wife might only see this!"
                        Then we went to Christopher Schubel's Tavern at Redwiz for a beer and there
                                    many people assembled and each one wished to hear what my brother-in-law had
                                    written. We would read nothing, however, and went to the schoolmaster at Wolsan to
                                    have him make a copy, so that we could send the original letter to cousin Hagen who
                                    is living at present in most comfortable circumstances at Nordhausen, Prussia, and
                                    up to this time there have been some twenty-odd copies made of your letter and I
                                    have up to this time had more than seven florins which people forced upon me to pay
                                    for the extra postage. Many persons of superior rank and education have come and
                                    expressed their great admiration, and have spoken of the good style used by the
                                    writer and of the excellence of the detailed descriptions, and they all think that
                                    probably no better letter has yet been sent from America.
                        My dear in-laws, these few lines of yours to my daughters have produced a great
                                    effect on them, for they were at once determined as to their future course. The four
                                    who are at home threw their arms around me, and cried under tears: "O
                                    father, we will follow our uncle and aunt, if you will go with us." I can
                                    honestly assure you that this was the second time that my children thus manifested
                                    their love to me in this manner; the first time was when their beloved mother closed
                                    her eyes in the sleep that knows no waking, and now again, when with weeping I read
                                    the letter, that you, dear sister-in-law, had intended for them. So I held council
                                    with my mother, my brothers, and all the cousins by the name of Schreyer, and I said
                                    to them: "I have decided to undertake this journey with my five children,
                                    because none of them cares to go alone." I was  much pleased that none of my friends discouraged my
                                    plan, but said: "You are not married, and need not consult your wife, so go in
                                    God's name with your children, because your brother-in-law and
                                    sister-in-law take such a deep interest in the future welfare of your daughters, as
                                    this letter testifies."
                        And now, dear relatives, I will tell you of our circumstances at present, hoping that
                                    this may not prove annoying to you, but that on the contrary, it may awaken to a
                                    small degree such feelings in you as now prompt me to write. Next spring, in March
                                    or April we will, if it be God's will, undertake the journey to join you. I
                                    have already sold some of my property; my house and all smaller buildings, together
                                    with the garden and the larger small fields my neighbor Brenfang has bought for 2250
                                    florins; other fields and meadowland I have sold for 4602 firs, and have besides the
                                    large pasture, another field and six shares of wood to sell. I shall get at least
                                    1800 firs, more and have besides all my personal effects. Nothing goes with the
                                    house except the manure in the stable. Thus I can hope that after the deduction of
                                    all debts I can still have 7000 florins left.
                        Now I beg you to try to find a home for us somewhere in your
                                        neighborhood, how and where, you yourselves can of course best determine.
                                    If you should not share this wish, then at least have the kindness to give us your
                                    advice, for we will not change our plans and are determined to seek a new home in
                                    America. I ask no further information concerning your surroundings, because you have
                                    already told us so much, and simply request you to write again as soon as possible
                                    and let us know what you deem best for us to take with us in the way of furniture
                                    and tools. So far as I can learn from your letter and from people who have come back
                                    from America and then returned again, it is best to take as little baggage as
                                    possible.
                        Then I should like to know from what harbor it is best to take passage, so as to
                                    reach you. Many have advised me to take passage from Havre, 
                                        France
                                    , because the voyage is shorter. By this way it will be necessary to
                                    take the provisions for the entire voyage and in the opinion of many, this is
                                    considered an advantage because the fare on board ship is so unpalatable and
                                    undesirable anyway. I think you can give me the best information concerning this
                                    part of our journey; please let me know what kind of money, I had best procure and
                                    how I can best carry it; it would surely be impossible to carry all this about my
                                    person, even if it were all in gold; could it not be arranged with a
                                    draft? I shall make some inquiries concerning it of the manufacturer
                                    Fikentscher at Redwiz.
                        I have today, August 24, sold another field for 711 florins. My dear sister-in-law!
                                    Your letter to your dear parents, together with that of your husband, we forwarded
                                    the day after its arrival to your parents at Nordhausen, where your father now has a
                                    large brewery, but have to date received no reply. Your brother, George, is the
                                    owner of a brewery at Tilsit. I cannot give you full information concerning the
                                    other members of your family, but I shall endeavor to learn all I can, so that, if
                                    it be God's will, I can tell you everything when we meet in the spring.
                        
                        On account of your letter, many desire to leave Arzberg and come to America,
                                    especially Andres Rabi'nsteiner; but it is difficult to sell property, because so
                                    many are anxious to leave. For three or four years the situation in 
                                        Germany
                                     has been very distressing because all bread and other provisions are so
                                    very high. This year, it is believed, will be the very worst of all, for the grain
                                    harvest has turned out badly, below the average, and the potato crop will be almost
                                    a complete failure.
                        During the days of the middle part of August, from the eighth to the twenty-fourth,
                                    the foliage of the potato plants was marked with black spots, and so soon as this
                                    was noticed the entire plant became dry inside of a week, while the potatoes
                                    themselves had blue spots and began to rot in a few days. The smell that attends
                                    this rotting process is very disagreeable and can be noticed very strongly by those
                                    who pass the fields at some distance. Now that the time has come to dig up the
                                    potatoes the most must be left on the fields and a peasant who might have raised
                                    three hundred sacks of potatoes can take home scarcely seventy and fears are
                                    entertained that these potatoes will rot in the cellars so that by spring there may
                                    not be enough left to plant. This disease of the potato plant prevails not only in 
                                        Germany
                                    , but is spreading all over Europe-it is called "die
                                    Krauselkrankheit."
                        A peck of good potatoes already costs from 12 to 25 krz.; a Bavarian bushel of corn
                                    costs 24 florins, a scheffel of wheat 26 florins, barley from 17 to 18 florins. 
                                        Austria
                                     permits no grain to be exported, so if help does not come from other
                                    countries, it is very generally believed that times will be worse than in the year
                                    1817. We read in the newspapers that flour and grain will come from America, but God
                                    knows what the price may be, even if it is always cheap in your own country.
                                    Everybody entertains great fears for the future, for no one is sure of his
                                    possessions. Much theft is committed even now and the lower classes threaten that
                                    before they will die of hunger, they will resort to robbery and murder. Many
                                    thousands would like to emigrate, if they could only find the necessary funds; even
                                    the rich are emigrating. A tanner from Ploszberg left with thirty thousand florins
                                    ready money. It is rumored that he deposited this money in an American bank, which
                                    failed, and that he has lost everything.
                        Dear brother-in-law in Indiana, I have heard that Andreas Saupert, a native of our
                                    town, is a minister in the city of 
                                        Evansville
                                    , Indiana. If it is not too much trouble for you, please write to him
                                    and let him know that the second minister Fortsch at Redwiz sends him his best
                                    wishes and kindest regards, also that he and the Rev. Lieb, of Wunsiedel will most
                                    probably come to America next year and will come to visit him. (Do they need
                                    ministers in America?)
                        I must tell you that on the 24th of October 1843 when my brother Veit happened to be
                                    at Nuremberg, a fire broke out in the woodshed of his neighbor Jon. Meyer. It was
                                    nine o'clock in the evening, there was no servant at home, and I was alone with the
                                    children. We could save nothing but the cattle and the beds; five pigs and 18 geese
                                    were burned. One of the servant girls of Mr. Meyer was arrested  and detained for some time; it was said that she had
                                    accidentally set fire to the woodshed.
                        At the request of Gottfried Glass you are to write what you know concerning
                                    ironworks; also what would be the prospects for a hammersmith.
                        Many thousand greetings to you from me, my children, and my friends as well as yours.
                                    Hoping that this letter may find my sisterin-law in better health than when you
                                    wrote, my dearest wish remains that we may soon meet.
                        
                                    Your brother-in-law, Joh. Melchior Meyer.
                                
                        (P.S. The lawsuit concerning the legacy of your grandmother is ended and your
                                    father has received 1900 florins.)
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Jefferson and the Press. By Frank L. Mott. (
                  Baton Rouge: Louisiana
               
                    State University Press, 1943, pp. 65. $1.00.)
            The arrival of each "book review section" carries its weekly reminders of the almost frantic
                    search currently being made for roots firm enough to hold in a rising wind. The literary result has
                    been as varied as reminiscences retailing the positiveness of grandfather's day, the
                    teachings of Apostle Paul in fictional form, and biographies of earlier American leaders.
                    Unfortunately the scholarship has not always been equal to the subject. But when the dean of
                    historians of American journalism sets out to explore the attitude of the "father" of
                    American democracy toward freedom of the press, the result is this satisfying little volume.
            Jefferson believed that the press had an essential role in the democratic system to keep the
                    electorate informed and to exercise a disciplinary influence on the public functionaries. But the
                    newspapers could perform that work, he insisted, only so long as they remained free. Press freedom,
                    as he remarked on one occasion, "guards our other liberties." The only limitation
                    he would permit was a cautious use of libel laws to prevent liberty from becoming license. To these
                    basic principles he remained consistently loyal to the end of his life, despite the nature of the
                    attacks levied upon him by the dominant Federalist press. Such was his position in time, place, and
                    influence that he had an extraordinary opportunity to fix them in the American system.
            He sponsored the adoption of these principles in the constitution of his own state of 
                        Virginia
                    ; and when the federal constitution omitted specific guarantees of freedom of the press,
                    he protested vigorously from his position across the ocean. The argument that such guarantees were
                    redundant for a government of delegated powers left him unconvinced, and he continued to press for a
                    bill of rights that would speak out "clearly and without the aid of sophism." Time
                    and the number of Supreme Court decisions, citing the first ten amendments have proved him right.
            With the rise of political parties, the press which he had done so much to nurture became a major
                    enemy. Concentrated in the populous centers and being men of wealth and business, the Federalists
                    controlled four-fifths of the  papers at the time Jefferson was
                    elected vice-president. Scared by the leveling forces that were daily becoming more evident and
                    convinced that Jefferson was calling up these forces to serve his own demagogic purposes, they
                    lashed him with the vehemence-of the threatened. His attempts to counter their influence by
                    encouraging the founding of Republican papers met with only limited success, in part because his
                    choice of editor was sometimes not of the best. He found firmer ground in his determined opposition
                    to the Sedition Act and eventually won the presidency with the aid of that issue.
            Though the Jeffersonian Republicans captured the seat of government in 1801, the Federalists
                    continued for some time to be a majority on the editorial page. Asi their sense of frustration
                    mounted with each more decisive defeat at the polls, they waxed more and more bitter, reaching a
                    level of scurility in their personal attacks on Jefferson which Mott believes has never been equaled
                    in American annals. These years constituted the real test of Jefferson's loyalty to the
                    principles of a free press, and he withstood his trial by canard with unchanging ideals. Private
                    letters, however, reveal that he writhed painfully under the newspaper attacks, turning repeatedly
                    to Plato, Horace, and Tacitus for refuge. It was not until after he had ceased to be President that
                    the rise of western municipalities created a Republican press equal to that of the Federalists.
            Author and publisher are to be complimented for their restraint in limiting the size of the book to
                    the subject, even though that meant a volume of only sixty-five pages. The value of this study would
                    have been enhanced, however, by one addition-that of a selected bibliography.
            Cedric Cummins
         
         
            
               George Fitzhugh: Propagandist of the Old South. By Harvey 
                        Wish
                    . (
                  Baton Rouge: Louisiana
                State University Press, 1943, pp. ix, 360.
                    $3.00.)
            Who spoke for the slaveholding South, to defend human bondage, repudiate the social compact and free
                    contract from Locke to Jefferson, and denounce industrial capitalism? George Fitzhugh, a
                    kindly man whose only formal education was reading for the law, a Virginian who caricatured the
                    North without ever travelling outside the Old Dominion except 
                    to debate with Wendell Phillips at 
                        New Haven
                    . Fitzhugh upheld slavery by debasing freedom in his two books, Sociology
                        for the South; or, The Failure of Free Society (1854) and Cannibals All! or,
                        Slaves Without Masters (1857), both curiosities in the literature of the American reaction
                    to industrialism. He repeated himself in scores of unsigned editorials for the 
                        Richmond
                    
                    Examiner (1854-1856) and Enquirer (1855-1857), and in more than
                    a hundred articles for De Bow's Review (1855-1867). Fitzhugh was not only
                    more prolific in his writings but more extreme in his economic and social views than Calhoun, 
                        Hammond
                    , Grayson, Rhett, and Yancey. William Lloyd Garrison, who knew whereof he spoke, called
                    him "crack-brained," "a moral lunatic." In this uncompromising
                    advocate of slavery, the Abolitionist met his match.
            Fitzhugh was often quoted by Abolitionists, in Congress, Horace Greeley's Tribune, and throughout the North, as he helped to make the conflict between the sections
                    irreconcilable. Lincoln was well acquainted with his Sociology and came to regard
                    his editorials in the Enquirer, which he attributed to its editor rather than to
                    Fitzhugh, as representative of the Southern mind. The seed of Lincoln's housedivided speech
                    and of Seward's proclamation of irrepressible conflict was to be found in
                    Fitzhugh's editorials (pp. 150-54). Peace and union were shattered when the South mistook
                    all Yankees for Garrison, and the North all Southerners for Fitzhugh, although neither spoke what
                    his section thought.
            While Fitzhugh's romantic neo-feudalism, which, like Carlyle, he believed the best security
                    for the Negro, later became contaminated with the racial prejudice of Gobineau, Nott, and 
                        Van
                     Evrie, it was not the political gospel of a Secessionist. In politics Fitzhugh was a
                    mild nationalist, an opponent of free trade like the Careys and List, and no follower of the
                    legalistic Calhoun. His propaganda was inspired by the need of the South to defend slavery as a
                    positive good on ethical and economic grounds. The best defense for him was an unlimited offensive
                    against liberalism and industrialism. He ridiculed the Declaration of Independence, grounded himself
                    in Aristotle rather than Plato, copied Carlyle, borrowed from Marx, and drew heavily upon the
                    conservative British quarterlies. The future of the capitalistic North he described in terms of the
                    misery of contemporary 
                    
                        England
                    . The only reason, in his opinion, that the North had escaped the worst consequences of
                    its "agrarian, communistic, free-love, anarchical and leveling doctrines" was the safety
                    valve of Western land. But "free society was a failure"; the natural condition of man,
                    white or black, was servitude to capital, appetite, and the whip; liberty was a fraud, democracy a
                    fiction, the class struggle a result of wage slavery. Only by alliance with the South could
                    "Northern Conservatism . . . turn back the tide of Radicalism and Agrarianism,"
                    and he pleaded tactlessly for the factory-owner and slaveholder to stand together.
            In this searching biography of a mind, for Fitzhugh lived only in what he thought,Dr. Wish of De Paul
                    University has rescued a great American Tory from the oblivion of his own writings. He has added an
                    important chapter to the history of American conservative thought, so much less known than our
                    liberal and radical traditions. Thanks to the author, no one can read his book without seeing its
                    relation to the struggle between liberty and authority in the present century. This reader would
                    question only one statement: "Lincoln's own 
                        Virginia
                     heritage explains in part his sympathetic attitude to certain contentions of the South"
                    (p. 156). And if more could be asked of a reflective book, which even those who dislike the abstract
                    will find exciting, for my part it would be a more thorough exploration of the European sources of
                    Fitzhugh's ideas. The transit of ideas across the Atlantic is the kind of immigration which
                    Americans are prone to overlook or else to feel strongly about without much comprehension.
            Roger W. Shugg
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Ohio
                         in the Twentieth Century, 1900-1938. Planned and compiled by Harlow Lindley.
                    Volume VI, The History of the State of 
                            Ohio
                        , edited by Carl F. Wittke. (
                  Columbus, Ohio: Ohio
                State Archaeological and Historical Society, 1942, pp.
                    xiii, 563. $25.00 per set.)
            This volume is a cooperative and topical treatment of 
                        Ohio
                     history in the twentieth century. As such it differs from the other volumes which are
                    coordinated accounts by individual authors. In it fifteen authors treat sixteen topics in seventeen
                    chapters. It exhibits the virtues and the defects of cooperative writing. The chapters are written
                    by  experts in the respective fields and are brief but thorough
                    monographic treatments. Governmental developments are described by a political scientist,
                    agriculture by a rural economist, and banking by an economist. But there are also instances of
                    repetition, overlapping, omissions, and differences as to methods, style, and point of view in the
                    various chapters. For example, relief and educational finance are discussed under government in the
                    second chapter and under "depression activities" in the sixteenth; some of the chapters are formed
                    out of lists of names sandwiched between short statements of facts, while others are well written
                    and thoroughly digested historical accounts. The progressive character of the first fifteen years of
                    the twentieth century is not adequately pictured at any point. Another topic that is not adequately
                    treated is the history of sports.
            The volume illustrates not only the merits and defects of cooperative endeavor but the inability of
                    some experts to write history. Social history must be a digested historical treatment and not a list
                    of authors or printers or other persons and their works which are deserving of mention. Such facts
                    become as dull as a list of battles and generals or of political campaigns and their participants.
            Had the committee been able to find a trained historian who had specialized in the recent field, a
                    more adequately coordinated history could have been produced. The merits of his work would depend in
                    part upon his ability to gain enough technical information about the various specialized subjects to
                    have written not only a coordinated account, but one based upon an adequate understanding of a
                    complicated era of specialization. An historian of such broad training is not always available and
                    the present volume represents one solution of a difficult problem.
            Probably too much has been said by way of unfavorable criticism. The work has many merits. It carries
                    the history of 
                        Ohio
                     to as recent a point as 1938; it exhibits very little prejudice or bias; it is not
                    characterized by excessive state pride but rather by a proper degree of modesty. Most of the
                    chapters are very well done. When one considers the difficulties of writing recent history, the
                    conclusion must be that the authors and editors have been quite skillful and successful.
            John D. Barnhart
         
         
         
            List of Contributors
            
               J. W. Fesler is an attorney-at-law in 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
               General Prather is a teacher of social studies in the Hobart High School, Hobart, Indiana.
               Caroline Dunn is secretary of the Society of Indiana Pioneers and librarian of the Indiana
                        Historical Society.
               Donald F. Carmony is executive secretary of the 
                     South
                                Bend-Mishawaka
                   center of
                        the Indiana University Extension Division.
               Roger W. Shugg, now on leave from Indiana University, is a historian with the Historical
                        Branch of the War Department General Staff, 
                            Washington, D. C.
                        
               
               Cedric Cummins is an assistant professor of history at the 
                            Indianapolis
                         center of the Indiana University Extension Division.
               Roy H. Beldon is a resident of Crothersville, Indiana.
            
         
         
         
            Genealogy Section
            THE PIONEER CEMETERY OF GRASSY FORK TOWNSHIP, JACKSON COUNTY
            Roy H. BELDON
            Situated one-half mile north of the Waskom Muscatatuck River bridge, no public road leads to the
                    pioneer cemetery in southern Grassy Fork Township in Jackson County. In early days, it was reached
                    by a winding road through the forest, and it was over this type of path that the early settlers bore
                    their loved ones to their final resting place. At that time, the cemetery was a beautiful cleared
                    knoll overlooking the winding Muscatatuck River and the primitive forest of its broad valley.
            Although I knew it to be in a wilderness state, I came upon and was in the cemetery before I realized
                    the fact, so badly has it been neglected. Wild cherry, hackberry, oak, and walnut trees that measure
                    eighteen inches in diameter have grown near or on the graves. Briar patches are broad and dense and
                    cover many graves. Underneath these briars were ridges of fresh turned earth, which reminded me of
                    new graves; but this could not be true, because this cemetery has not been used for some fifty
                    years. The fresh earth was that of recently dug woodchuck holes.
            I found this pioneer cemetery divided by a line fence. Farmers have not curved their fencing around
                    it for years. Constructed of barbed wire, supported by posts, its strands stapled to some of the
                    trees, this fence now divides cow pastures on two separate farms, namely, the Waskom farm and the
                    Henry Fogelding farm.
            On the north side of the fence I found only one stone standing on which was carved this: 
                        Sarah, Wife of A. O. Belding, Sr.
                        Born August 20, 1805. Died June 13, 1859
                    
            
            Flat on the ground are three other stones from which I dug away earth and grass and scraped moss in
                    order to read the names and dates: 
                        
                     Aaron O. Belding, born November 22, 1796
                     Died April 15, 1867
                     James O., Son of N. B. & E. Fislar
                     Died August 7, 1864. Aged 1 yr. 11 Mo. 29 da.
                     James, Son of A. & A. L Woodmansee
                     
                     Died January 4, 1816. Aged 9 yrs.
                     Thomas J., Son of A. & H. Perry
                     Died November 20, 1849. Aged 7 mo. 3 da.
                     In memory of Elizabeth, Wife of Joseph 
                                    Brown
                                
                     
                     who departed this life September 8 [Dates weathered away]
                     Joseph 
                                    Brown
                                
                     
                     [Dates weathered and crumbled off]
                     Mary E., Daughter of A. C. and S. H. Keach
                     Born February 21, 1851
                     Died July 3, 1857
                     William H. Fislar, born February 3, 1842
                     Died May 3, 1864
                     Sarah, Consort of Harden 
                                    Hancock
                                
                     
                     [Dates crumbled away]
                     Albert, Son of H. & E. Hancock
                     Died April 12, 1855. Aged 4 yrs. 5 mo. 1 da.
                     Mary A., Daughter of H. & S. Hancock
                     Died August 12, 1842. Aged about 3 yrs.
                     Indiana, Daughter of P. S. and N. J. Ramey
                     Died December 21, 1853. Aged 2 mo. 27 da.
                  
                    
            
            Indications of other graves were unmarked.
            Then I climbed over the fence into the briars, weeds, thorns, and weeds of the south half of the
                    cemetery. I found there an iron fence and a five-foot stone wall, each enclosing two graves. 
                        
                     Ruben Rucker, departed this life October 16, 18- [Date crumbled off]. Aged 38 yrs.
                     Ruben Rucker, Sr., Born September 15, 1781
                     Died December 27, 1846>
                     Elizabeth Rucker, Consort of Ruben Rucker
                     Born September 11, 1784
                     Died October 22, 1842
                  
                    
            
            On the arch of the stone enclosure was this: 
                        
                     Erected by J. B. Rucker Gone Home 
                     Elizabeth, Wife of J. B. Rucker
                     Born February 13, 1825. Died August 30, 1846
                     Colby, Son of A. & E. Rucker
                     Died July 4, 1849. Aged 1 yr. 1 mo. 1 da.
                     Rhuben Rucker, born January 16, 1817
                     Died August 28, 1854
                     Elizabeth Roberts, born May 18, 1844
                     Died January 18, 1866
                     John Moore, born November 1, 1783
                     Died February 24, 1849
                     Anthony Moore, Born June 21, 1826
                     Died April 9, 1846
                     
                     John Moore, Born January 26, 1834
                     Died January 3, 1854
                     Miles Moore, Born November 19, 1830
                     Died January 28, 1855
                  
                    
            
            Although it stands four and one-half feet high and is still in good condition, this next stone was
                    almost overlooked as it was completely covered by vegetation. 
                        
                     James R., Son of E. H. and J. A. Ponell
                     Born February 13, 18-[Date crumbled]
                     Died February 16, 1862
                     John Downing
                     Died January 17, 1862. Aged 57 yrs.
                     [Masonic emblem on this stone.]
                     Pernina Downing, Wife of John Downing, departed
                     this life on the 8th day of January 1844. Aged 34.
                  
                    
            
            Through the briars and near a freshly made woodchuck hole, I saw a stone which appears to have been
                    more recently placed. It marks the grave of a Revolutionary War veteran. 
                        Michel L. Downing
                        Va. Mil.
                        Rev. War.
                    
            
            A number of graves are unmarked and the names of the dead may never be learned. Perhaps I missed some
                    marked graves due to the vegetation.
            It is certain that a philanthropist or philanthropic organization is needed to save this neglected
                    but very interesting cemetery to posterity.
         
      
      
         
      
   
