
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 58, Issue 4, pages 279-401. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:58+issue:4+year:1962&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Public Schools in Congressional Township 13, Range 7 East, 
                        Shelby County
                    , Indiana, 1829–1852
            Edited by Donald F. Carmony∗
                Contributed by George
                        Billman∗∗
            
            The document which follows consists of minutes and related items concerning the establishment and
                    development of public schools in Congressional Township 13 North, Range 7 East, in 
                        Shelby County
                    , Indiana, 1829–1852. Although this document offers an incomplete record
                    concerning such schools, it does afford much useful information about the beginnings of public
                    elementary schools in Indiana.
            Education in Indiana at all levels was largely under church and private auspices in the pioneer era
                    (approximately 1800–1850), and especially during the first quarter of the nineteenth
                    century. Public education developed during the ensuing quarter century, but early public schools
                    were seldom free schools. Indiana University, first known as Indiana State Seminary, opened in the
                    mid-twenties. Most counties established and operated a county seminary for varying 
                  
                     ∗ Donald F. Carmony is editor of the Indiana
                                Magazine of History and professor of history at Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     ∗∗ The document which follows was contributed by
                            Mr. George Billman, Rural Route 5, 
                                Rushville
                            , Indiana. Mr. Billman was born March 4, 1884, on a farm near Marion, the first
                            village in Congressional Township 13 North, Range 7 East. He was educated in the local
                            public schools and subsequently studied at Central Normal College, 
                        Danville; Marion
                     
                            Normal College; and 
                                Valparaiso
                             Normal College. He first taught school in Noble Township in 
                                Shelby County
                             and then near 
                                Marion
                            . In 1910 and again in 1912 he was elected to the Indiana House of
                            Representatives. In 1916 he graduated from the Indiana Law School in 
                                Indianapolis
                            . Mr. Billman has also worked in the 
                                Indianapolis
                             post office, sold road-building and farm machines, practiced law, and served as
                            engineer for the Nicholson Pile Company in Anderson. Since his retirement in 1949, he has
                            become interested in writing a history of schools in the 
                                Marion
                             area. His discovery of the minutes here reproduced is one result of this
                            interest.
               
                     lengths of time between 1825 and 1850. These seminaries were
                    public institutions at the secondary level. The date for the opening of the first public school at
                    the elementary level is unknown, but this milestone was probably achieved during the late teens or
                    early twenties. At any rate, the significant beginnings of public education in
                    Indiana—elementary, secondary, and collegiate—are found almost exclusively
                    during the second quarter of the nineteenth century.1
            
            The Land Ordinance of 1785 established the cornerstone for public elementary education in the Hoosier
                    State. Although this congressional ordinance had immediate application to only a limited area of the
                    federal domain in eastern 
                        Ohio
                     next to the Pennsylvania border, it made the congressional township the basic unit in
                    the rectangular system of surveying federal land in the larger region to the west that included the
                    Indiana Territory and began the practice of setting aside the sixteenth section of each
                    congressional township (one thirty-sixth of the township) for "the maintenance of public
                    schools" therein.2 As Indian titles were removed and the federal land
                    surveys proceeded westward the sixteenth sections or their equivalents were reserved from sale. When
                    Indiana became a state in 1816 the 
                        United States
                     formally surrendered its title to the school sections in the new commonwealth. Each
                    school section was expressly "granted to the inhabitants of such township, for the use of
                        schools."3 Even though a congressional township might include parts
                    of two or more civil townships, or even two or more counties, its school section belonged
                    exclusively to its residents.
            
               
                  1 The best account of the beginnings and early development of education in
                        Indiana is Richard G. Boone, A History of Education in Indiana (
                            New York
                        , 1892; offset edition by Indiana Historical Bureau, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1941). Useful information regarding such education is also available in: John D.
                        Barnhart and Donald F. Carmony, Indiana: From Frontier to Industrial
                        Commonwealth (4 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1954), I, 255–275; R. Carlyle Buley, The Old Northwest,
                            Pioneer Period, 1815–1840 (2 vols., 
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind., 1951), II, 339–340, 361–363, 387–393,
                        402–403, 407–408, 612–613, and passim; Otho
                        Lionel Newman, "Development or [sic] The Common Schools of Indiana To 1851," Indiana Magazine of History, XXII (September,
                        1926), 229–276.
               
                  2 The Land Ordinance of 1785 is in Worthington C. Ford, et
                            al., (eds.), Journals of the Continental Congress,
                        1774–1789 (34 vols., 
                            Washington
                        , D. C., 1904–1937), XXVIII, 375–381.
               
                  3 Charles Kettleborough (ed.), Constitution Making in Indiana
                            (Indiana Historical Collections, I, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1916), 76, quoting from the federal Enabling Act of 1816 which authorized Indiana
                        to become a state.
            
            
            Indiana's first state constitution, quickly drafted at Corydon during June of 1816,
                    established a goal and a commitment to public education which was advanced for its day. This
                    constitution included the qualified mandate: 
                        It shall be the duty of the General assembly, as soon as circumstances will permit, to
                            provide, by law, for a general system of education, ascending in a regular gradation, from
                            township schools to a state university, wherein tuition shall be gratis, and equally open to
                                all.4
                  
                    The express mention of township schools in this mandate was probably a result of the
                    donation of the sixteenth sections for support of local schools. Unfortunately the goal established
                    in the constitution was beyond the ability of the pioneers to realize.
            The Constitution of 1816 made it the duty of the legislature to provide for the improvement of the
                    school sections and it also prohibited their sale before the year 1820.5 The
                    Indiana territorial legislature had already enacted laws to protect these sections from illegal
                    cutting of timber and other injury, and the leasing of school lands had also been authorized.6 Similar legislation regarding the protection and leasing of the sixteenth
                    sections was approved by the first state legislature and subsequently altered from time to time.7 In the late twenties the Indiana General Assembly authorized the sale of
                    school sections whenever a majority of not less than twenty qualified voters of the township
                    approved the 
                  
                     4
                            Ibid., 114.
                  
                     5
                            Ibid., 113.
                  
                     6 Francis S. Philbrick (ed.), The Laws of Indiana
                                Territory, 1801–1809 (Collections of the 
                                    Illinois
                                 State Historical Library, XXI, 
                                Springfield
                            , 
                                Ill.
                            , 1930), 359–361, 667–668; Louis B. Ewbank and Dorothy L.
                            Riker (eds.), The Laws of Indiana Territory, 1809–1816 (Indiana
                                Historical Collections, XX, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1934), 131–132.
                  
                     7
                            Laws of the State of Indiana, Passed at the First Session of the General
                                Assembly … [1816–1817] (Corydon, Ind., 1817),
                            104–109; Laws of the State of Indiana, Passed and Published, at the
                                Second Session of the General Assembly … [1817–1818]
                            (Corydon, Ind., 1818), 301–305; Laws of the State of Indiana, Passed
                                and Published at the Third Session of the General Assembly …
                            [1818–1819] (Corydon, Ind., 1819), 57–59; The Revised
                                Statutes of the State of Indiana, Adopted and Enacted by the General Assembly at their
                                Twenty-Second Session [1837–1838] (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1838), 517–518; The Revised Statutes of the State of
                                Indiana, Passed at the Twenty-Seventh Session of the General Assembly …
                            [1842–1843] (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1843), 253, 261–262. After initial citation, references to Indiana
                            laws are cited in abbreviated form. Thus, the first item above becomes Laws of
                                Indiana, 1816–1817, etc.
               
                     sale.8 The same law provided for the
                    election of a school commissioner for each county who would receive payments from these sales. From
                    these receipts he was empowered to lend the principal and distribute the interest to the schools
                    entitled to it. Following this enabling legislation the residents of many congressional townships
                    sold at least a portion of their school lands. The proceeds from these sales in each township
                    constituted its Congressional Township Fund as a permanent endowment from which only the interest
                    was available for support of local schools.9
            
            In the fall of 1829 the trustees of Congressional Township 13, Range 7 East, in 
                        Shelby County
                    , divided their school section into eight eighty-acre tracts. Five dollars per acre was
                    set as the minimum price for these tracts except the one located in the southwestern portion of the
                    township for which the minimum was $4.37 1/2 per acre.10 All tracts
                    were sold for the minimum rate; two in 1830, two in 1831, two in 1833, and two in 1835.11 Meanwhile, additional revenue for local schools had been obtained from
                    renting and leasing the unsold tracts of the school section.12
            
            Revenue from congressional township funds was the most important source of money for financing public
                    elementary schools in the pioneer period. But, as illustrated in the minutes which follow, such
                    revenue was supplemented by local 
                  
                     8
                            Laws of the State of Indiana, Passed and Published at the Thirteenth Session of
                                the General Assembly … [1828–1829] (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1829), 120–128. See Laws of the State of Indiana,
                                Passed and Published at the Twelfth Session of the General Assembly …
                            [1827–1828] (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1828), 112–113, for a law authorizing local residents to indicate
                            their approval or disapproval regarding sale of school sections. It seems, however, that the
                            initial sales were made under the 1829 legislation.
                  
                     9
                            
                                Boone
                            , A History of Education in Indiana, 168–180, and
                                passim, has a general account concerning the origin and development of
                            these funds.
                  
                     10 See below, pp. 286–287.
                  
                     11 The editor is much indebted to Mr. Ralph Adams, an attorney at 
                                Shelbyville
                            , Indiana, for information concerning the sale of these school tracts. The dates
                            and confirmation of terms of sales are based on records in the county auditor's and
                            recorder's offices examined by Mr. Adams, including records of early deeds and
                            early reports of the county school commissioner. The editor is also indebted to Mr. Adams
                            for related information which has been helpful in the editing of this document. The help
                            received from this source is summarized in a letter from Ralph Adams to Donald F. Carmony,
                            November 9, 1962.
                  
                     12 See below pp. 295, 321.
               
                     taxes and by money received from the state government. Local
                    taxes—normally payable in labor, produce, or cash—could be levied by qualified
                    voters of school districts, though legislation limited the maximum rates which could be assessed.
                    Local taxes might be used to build schoolhouses, to pay teachers when other revenue was inadequate,
                    or to extend school terms. During the thirties and forties the state developed various funds which
                    were known collectively as the Common School Fund, and the proceeds thereof were distributed to
                    local schools. The Surplus Revenue Fund, consisting of "surplus revenue" from land
                    sales distributed by the federal government, was by far the most valuable of these funds prior to
                    the 1850's.13
            
            In 1810 the Indiana territorial legislature authorized the establishment of schools within
                    congressional townships and early state legislatures repeated this authorization.14 But the first major—and possibly the first fruitful—legislation
                    regarding the opening of schools was that of 1824 which provided for the election of three
                    congressional township trustees and their incorporation as a body politic in general charge of local
                    schools as in previous legislation. The 1824 law began the practice of dividing townships into
                    districts with sub-trustees in immediate charge of the schools. The three township trustees were
                    authorized to divide their township into an appropriate number of school districts, appoint three
                    sub-trustees for each district, and examine and certify qualified teachers. The sub-trustees were
                    empowered to build a schoolhouse and employ a teacher for a term of at least three months provided
                    local householders and freeholders approved. The district system with much authority to local
                    trustees apparently continued throughout the pioneer period. Subsequent legislation was largely an
                    elaboration of the 
                  
                     13 The congressional township funds were not a part of the Common
                            School Fund. School revenues and funds are detailed in 
                                Boone
                            , A History of Education in Indiana, especially Chapters
                            XIII-XVI, XXV. See in particular pp. 181, 188, 194–195, 197–198,
                            324–326, 330–331. 
                                Boone
                             states emphatically that there was no state tax support for local schools
                            before 1852, though he indicates that collections from delinquent taxpayers were distributed
                            for such use in the 1830's and 1840's. Ibid.,
                            197–198, 326.
                  
                     14 Ewbank and Riker, The Laws of Indiana Territory,
                                1809–1816, pp. 131–132; Laws of Indiana,
                            1816–1817, pp. 104–109; Laws of Indiana,
                            1817–1818, pp. 301–305; Laws of Indiana,
                            1818–1819, pp. 57–59.
               
                     principles and practices included in the act of 1824.15 For example, in 1833 the sub-trustees were made elective by voters of the
                    district, a practice which apparently extended until about 1850.16
            
            
               
                        Shelby County
                     had been organized for only a decade when the first public school in Congressional
                    Township 13, Range 7 East, was opened in 1832. As late as 1818, when the New Purchase Treaty cleared
                    the Indian title for this region, much the greater portion of central Indiana, including the area
                    soon to become 
                        Shelby County
                    , yet belonged to the Indians.17 Although the Indians were allowed
                    three years to leave the ceded territory, hardly had the cession been made when squatters settled
                    within the area which became 
                        Shelby County
                     in 1822. By 1820 the village of 
                        Marion
                     had been established in Section 9 of Township 13 as the initial town of the future
                    county. Some early settlers of 
                        Marion
                     and vicinity arrived by way of Whetzel's Trace, recently cut from Laurel on
                    the West Fork of the Whitewater River to the site of the present town of Waverly on the West Fork of
                        White River. This trace crossed Big Blue River, on the
                    eastern bank of which 
                        Marion
                     was located, a short distance below that village. Early settlers in and around 
                        Marion
                     hoped that their village would become the county seat, but their hopes were dashed when 
                        Shelbyville
                     was selected in 1822. The new county whose area had only squatters as white residents
                    in 1820 had a population of 6,295 in 1830. The land of the county was surveyed in the late teens and
                    early twenties and land sales were brisk during the twenties and thirties.18
            
            
               
                  15
                        The Revised Laws of Indiana, Adopted and Enacted by the General Assembly at their
                            Eighth Session … [1823–1824] (Corydon, Ind., 1824),
                        379–385. The terms and importance of this law are discussed in 
                            Boone
                        , A History of Education in Indiana, 24–27. For a
                        general review of school legislation in pioneer days see: ibid.,
                        19–42, 87–128, and passim; Newman, "Development
                        or [sic] The Common Schools of Indiana To 1850," pp.
                        229–276. For summary statements of the school code see: Revised Statutes
                            of Indiana, 1837–1838, pp. 509–551; Revised Statutes
                            of Indiana, 1842–1843, pp. 251–255, 261–265,
                        305–325.
               
                  16
                        Laws of the State of Indiana, Passed and Published at the Seventeenth Session, of
                            the General Assembly … [1832–1833] (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1833), 94–95.
               
                  17
                        History of 
                                Shelby County
                            , Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1887), 268–269.
               
                  18 Early settlement, the organization of 
                            Shelby County
                        , early land surveys and sales, and related items are discussed in ibid., 269–270, 273–275, 300–306, 401–402,
                        407–408, 445–447, 575–577, and passim.
                        Similar information is available in Edward H. Chadwick, Chadwick's History
                            of 
                                Shelby County
                            , Indiana (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1909), 44–70, and passim; on page 81 he states that 
                            Shelby County
                         had a population of 6,295 in 1830; 12,005 in 1840; and 15,502 in 1850.
            
            
            By the early 1830's the time was ripe for the establishment of public elementary schools in
                    Township 13, Range 7 East. The document which follows illustrates the general process and the basic
                    steps by which such schools were usually founded in Indiana in pioneer days. It begins with an entry
                    under date of September 12, 1829, recording a meeting of the three township trustees to set the
                    minimum price at which tracts might be sold from the school section. This meeting indicates that the
                    trustees had previously been elected and the township incorporated as a body politic, and it also
                    suggests that local voters had already approved selling their school land. The next major step came
                    in 1832 when the trustees divided the township into six school districts and appointed three
                    sub-trustees for each district—making a total of twenty-one trustees and sub-trustees for
                    an area only six miles square!
            The remainder of the document principally relates the work and efforts of the trustees and
                    sub-trustees to establish and sustain local schools. The first important task of the sub-trustees
                    was to call a meeting to determine whether local residents would or would not like to establish a
                    school. If the vote was favorable, the sub-trustees supervised the erection of a schoolhouse,
                    usually made of logs. If the township trustees accepted the building, the district trustees
                    contracted with a teacher concerning his pay, length of the school term, and related items. The
                    actual selection of the teacher rested with the sub-trustees, but he had also to be approved either
                    by the township trustees or by a county official or officials. If the revenue available was
                    inadequate to pay the school costs, the sub-trustees levied local taxes payable in cash, produce, or
                    labor.
            Neighborhood self-sufficiency characterized public elementary schools as it did other aspects of
                    pioneer life and culture. Since the revenue from a school section belonged to the residents of the
                    congressional township, this township—rather than the civil township—became a
                    basic unit for schools. The importance of the congressional township as a school unit was increased
                    because revenue from the school section was the principal source of money for schools, especially in
                    the early years. Moreover, by following survey lines or by drawing other lines with reference to
                    them, a congressional township could be divided easily into school districts with  readily understood boundaries.19 Because schools
                    had to be within walking distance of their "scholars," congressional townships
                    were usually divided into from four or five to seven or eight districts. Their number was determined
                    by such factors as the number and distribution of scholars, the extent of local interest in schools,
                    the location of rivers, and other physical features, the amount of money available to sustain
                    schools from the Congressional Township Fund and other sources, and at times by the whims and
                    pressures of local citizens. This decentralized district system—with considerable
                    authority given to the district trustees—has been much criticized by school
                    administrators and by historians, particularly during the twentieth century, but, despite its
                    faults, it or something like it was perhaps essential in the pioneer era.
            [MEETING OF TRUSTEES TO DIVIDE
                        SCHOOL SECTION]1
            
            At a meeting of the trustees of Section No. Sixteen in Township No thirteen, Range No. Seven held in
                    the Town of 
                        Marion
                    , in 
                        Shelby County
                     and State of Indiana, on the twelfth day of September A.D. one thousand Eight hundred
                    and twenty nine, The aforesaid Trustees proceeded to divide Said Section lying and being Situated in
                    the State and County aforesaid as follows; The North East quarter of Said Section was divided into
                    two equal lots, Supposed to Contain Eighty acres each by a line running due East and West through
                    the Centre of Said North East quarter, And Valued Said Lots at five dollars per acre. The South east
                    quarter of Said Section was divided into two Equal parts Supposed to Contain 
                  
                     19 See below pp. 288–290 for the use made of survey lines
                            in forming the six initial school districts of Congressional Township 13, Range 7 East, 
                                Shelby County
                            .
                  
                     1 These minutes, records, and reports are, with the exceptions
                            described below and in footnotes 4, 6, 7, 9, and 21, a complete copy of the handwritten
                            document. Every effort has been made to reproduce accurately the spelling, capitalization,
                            and punctuation of the seven clerks who made these records. Parts of some words have been
                            supplied in brackets but wherever the intent of the scribe seemed clear no "sic" or other bracketed insertion has been made. Where there is
                            no punctuation in the minute book but the meaning is clear none has been added in the
                            printing. Superior letters have been brought down to the line
               
                     Eighty acres Each by a line running due east and west through
                    the centre of Said South East quarter And do Value Said lots at five dollars per. acre
            The South West quarter of Said Section was divided into two Equal parts by a line running due east
                    and West through the centre of Said South west quarter Each lot Supposed to Contain Eighty acres,
                    and do value South half of Said quarter at four dollars and 37 1/2 cents per acre, and the North
                    half of Said quarter at five dollars per acre, The North west quarter of Said Section was divided
                    into two Equal lots by a line running due East and west through the centre of Said North west
                    quarter Section. Each lot supposed to Contain Eighty acres and do Value Said lots at five dollars
                    per acre.
            Benjamin Hodges
            John V. Conover Trustees
            Balser Rhodes
            I, Robert R. Carson, Clerk of the above Trustees, and before named Section, Do Certify that above and
                    foregoing is a true division, Exibiting Correctly the divissions and Sub divisions, and Also the
                    Valuation made by the Trustees thereof: given under my hand and Seal this twelfth day of September
                    A.D. one thousand Eight hundred and twenty nine
            Robert R. Carson Clerk
            
               
                        and any marks below them have been interpreted as periods. No attempt has been made to
                            indicate flourishes around signatures; the word "seal" which appears
                            regularly after signatures on bonds and occasionally elsewhere has not been reproduced.
                            Since spacing and form varied greatly with different clerks, it has been considered
                            desirable to standardize indention, spacing, closing signature arrangement, and location of
                            headings. An occasional prepositional phrase has been omitted in the process of
                            standardizing identifying initials or titles in an item. Limited space has prompted the
                            printing of long lists of names in double columns rather than the single columns which
                            usually occur in the minute book.
                        Topical and running headings were used with varying consistency by the different clerks.
                            Existing topical headings have been retained; where the clerks omitted topical headings they
                            have been supplied in brackets. Running headings have been omitted except where they could
                            be used as topical headings; if it was necessary to relocate or rearrange them, they have
                            been bracketed. The decision to use large and small capitals for all general item headings
                            was based on the appearance of the printed page; here also the capitalization of the
                            document has been followed. Other unmarked omissions from this reproduction are the
                            occasional errors in copying that were crossed out by the scribes and the unintentional
                            repetitions of words or phrases. No attempt has been made to identify the individuals whose
                            names appear in these records, nor has there been any verification or standardization of the
                            spelling of proper names other than an occasional suggested translation in brackets where a
                            letter or name is almost unrecognizable.
                    
            
            
            [TOWNSHIP DISTRICTED]
            At a Meeting of the Trustees of School Township No. Thirteen of Range Seven, Met at the house of John
                    Kennedy's in the Town of 
                        Marion
                     On the 9th day of January A.D. 1832. Whereupon John V. Conover, Benjamin Hodges, And
                    Balsor Rhodes, appeared and produced their Certificates (from Matthias C. Vanpelt, Commissioner of
                    the School Lands of 
                        Shelby County
                    ) of their Election as Trustees of Said School Township, with the Certificate of the
                    Oath of office, endorsed on the Back thereof, by John Kennedy Esqr.
            Whereupon Said Trustees appointed William H Sleeth Clerk of Said School Township who was Sworn into
                    Office by John Kennedy Esqr.
            The Trustees proceeded to lay off the Township into School destricts as follows, To wit.2
            
            School Destrict No. 1
            Shall include the following bounds Viz Commencing at the North west corner of Section Six. Thence
                    Running South One mile to the south west Corner of Said Section, Thence East Two miles to the South
                    East corner of Section five, Thence South One half mile to the Centre of the West line of Section
                    nine, Thence east one half mile to the centre of Said Section, Thence South one half mile to the
                    South line of Said Section nine, Thence east one & a half mile to the South east Corner of
                    Section ten, Thence North two miles to the north east corner of Section three, Thence West four
                    miles to the place of beginning. And that Balsor Fox, Jacob Fox and Peter Laycock be, and they are
                    hereby appointed Sub-trustees for Said School Destrict.
            School Destrict No. 2.
            Shall include the following bounds Viz. Beginning at the North East Corner of Section One, thence
                    west two miles to the north west Corner of Section two, thence South three miles to the South west
                    Corner of Section fourteen, thence east two miles to the South east corner of Section thirteen
                    Thence North three miles to the place of beginning And that 
                  
                     2 See accompanying map of 
                                Shelby County
                            . In this reproduction, the map has been enlarged; the boundary lines of
                            Congressional Township 13 North, Range 7 East, have been made more bold; and the section
                            numbers have been added making it possible for readers to locate school districts and
                            schoolhouses approximately. The boundaries of the county have never changed and 
                                Shelbyville
                             has always been its county seat. The village of 
                                Marion
                             was—and still is—located in Section 9; its post office
                            and present-day map designation is Noah, but it is still known as 
                                Marion
                            .
               
                     John Smith, Gilbert Bates, and Philip Fouts be, and they are
                    hereby appointed Sub-trustees for said School destrict.
            School Destrict No. 3.
            Shall include the following bounds Viz, beginning at the north west Corner of Section Seven, running
                    South one & a half miles, to the centre of the west line of Section Eighteen, Thence East
                    One and a half miles, to the Centre of Section Seventeen, Thence north One half mile to the centre
                    of the north line of Section Seventeen, Thence East one mile to the centre of the South line of
                    Section nine, Thence North one half mile to the centre of Said Section, thence west on half mile to
                    the centre of the west line of Said Section thence north one half mile to the north east corner of
                    Section Eight, thence West two miles to the place of beginning—And that John Kennedy,
                    Jesse Boulton and Francis Van Voast, be and they are hereby appointed Sub-trustees for Said School
                    destrict.
            School Destrict No. 4.
            Shall include the following bounds Viz. Beginning at the centre of the West line of Section Eighteen,
                    thence South one and a half miles to the South west corner of Section nineteen, thence East four
                    miles to the South east corner of Section twenty two, thence north two miles, to the north East
                    corner of Section fifteen, Thence west two and a half miles to the centre of the north line of
                    Section Seventeen, thence South one half mile to the centre of Said Section, thence west one and a
                    half miles to the place of beginning. And that Henry Hinds, Peter Hinds and Robert Benefiel be and
                    they are hereby appointed Sub-trustees for Said School destrict.
            School Destrict No. 5.
            Shall include the following bounds Viz. Beginning at the north west corner of Section thirty, thence
                    South two miles to the South west corner of Section thirty one, thence east three miles to the South
                    East Corner of Section thirty three, thence north two miles to the north east corner of Section
                    twenty eight, thence west three miles to the place of beginning—And that John Walker, Wm.
                    Goodrich and Wm. Montgomery be and they are hereby appointed Sub-trustees for said School destrict.
            School Destrict No. 6.
            Shall include the following hounds, Viz. Beginning at the South west Corner of Section thirty four,
                    thence north two  miles to the north west corner of Section
                    twenty Seven, thence East one mile to the north east corner of Said Section, thence north one mile
                    to the north west corner of Section twenty three, thence East two miles to the north east corner of
                    Section twenty four, thence South three miles to the South east corner of Section thirty Six, thence
                    west three miles to the place of beginning—And that Win. G. Morris, Azariah Williams, and
                    John Glenn, be, and they are hereby appointed Sub-trustees for Said School destrict.
            It is ordered that Benjamin Hodges one of Said Trustees, be appointed Treasurer of Said School
                    Township.
            It is ordered that Wm. H Sleeth be allowed the Sum of three dollars to procure a Blank Book for the
                    use of Said School Township And that the Treasurer pay the Same, Instanter, out of any monies in his
                    hands.
            Which ammount of three dollars was paid over to Said Sleeth for the use aforesaid.
            No further business. The Board adjournd Sini die.
            Benjamin Hodges
            Balsor Rhodes Trustees
            John V. Conover
            Attest
            Wm. H. Sleeth Clk.
            [MEETING OF THE TRUSTEES]
            At A Meeting of the Trustees of the School Township Met in the Town of 
                        Marion
                     on the 28th day of July 1832,
            The Board proceeded to transact the following business Viz.
            It is ordered by the Board that John Sleeth be appointed Sub-trustee in School destrict No. 4. to
                    fill the Vacancy occassioned by the Removal of Henry Hinds, Late Sub-trustee of Said Destrict
            It is Ordered that Joseph Glancy be appointed Sub-trustee in School destrict No. 3. to fill the
                    Vacancy Occassioned by the resignation of Francis Van Voast Late Sub trustee of Said Destrict.
            Benjamin Hodges
            Balsor Rhodes Trustees
            Attest
            Wm. H. Sleeth, Clk
            
            [REPORT OF SCHOOL DISTRICT No.
                    1]
            At a meeting of the householders and free holders3 of School destrict No. 1,
                    agreeably to previous notice given, on the 27 January 18324 there being a
                    Majority of Said inhabitants present. And after the Law on the Subject of Schools being made know by
                    the sub-trustees of Said School destrict, they proceeded to take the Ays & Noes, in writing
                    on the question Whether they would, or Would not Suport a publick School for any Number of Months
                    not less than three in Each Year, On the plan laid down in the Laws, And after the question being
                    put, Those who Voted in the affirmative were Benjamin Hodges, Benjamin Raster, Peter Laycock, Jacob
                    Fox, Balsor Fox, John Whited, James Whited, John Greer Senr, John Greer Junr, Elit McComb, Jacob
                    Summey, John Foreman, John Rhodes, Robert P. Sleeth Wm H. Sleeth. Being a unanimous Vote
            Balsor Fox
            Peter Laycock Sub. trustees
            Jacob Fox S.D. No. 1
            [REPORT OF SCHOOL DISTRICT No.
                    2]
            February 4th. 1832,
            This day Met at the Centre of the Second School Destrict in Township thirteen, Range Seven, in Order
                    to take the Sense of the meeting, After making the law known to the inhabitants of this destrict, We
                    the trustees have taken the Vote on the following Question, Which was to know whether they would or
                    would not Support a public School for any number of Months not less than three in Each Year, On the
                    plan proposed and prescribed by law.
            Affirmative Asa Burtch, Wm Smith, Larkin Fouts, Beaton Rhodes, Cornelus Cook, James Bates, John
                    Ashworth, Jason Ashworth, Martin Snow Saml Copple John Smith 
                  
                     3 A householder was the head of a family or household; a freeholder
                            was an owner of real property.
                  
                     4 Although this entry is dated later it was apparently received and
                            recorded earlier than those which immediately follow. There are other instances of minutes
                            and reports recorded out of chronological order: the sequence in which they actually appear
                            in the minute hook has been preserved.
               
                     Gilbert Bates, Philip Fouts, Caleb Sleeth 14. Negative Robert C
                    Fair, John Rice, Robert Phares 3.
            Philip Fouts
            Gilbert Bates Sub trustees
            John Smith S.D. No. 2.
            REPORT OF SCHOOL DESTRICT NO 4.
            At a Meeting of the Householders & Free holders of School destrict No. 4. Met at the house of
                    F. E. Walkers in Said Destrict on the 28th day of January 1832, for the purpose of determining
                    whether they will or will not Suport a publick School any number of Months not less than three in
                    Each Year, and after the question being put Those who voted in the affirmative were 13 it being a
                    unanimous Vote,
            Jno. Sleeth
            Peter Hinds Sub trustees
            Robert Benefiel S.D. No. 4.
            TAX REPORT, DESTRICT NO 1.
            At a meeting of the Voters of School destrict No. 1. Met at the Franklin School house in Said
                    destrict to take the Sense of the meeting, whether they will Suffer any prortion of the Tax, if any
                    Tax be necessary for the suport of a School in Said destrict, it is agreed upon to pay Such Tax in
                    produce at the market price to be delivered at Said School house in a reasonable time at the
                    direction of the Sub-trustees December 17th. 1832.
            Balsor Fox
            Jacob Fox Sub, trustees
            Peter Laycock
            Recorded the 17th December 1832
            Wm H Sleeth Clk
            FRANKLIN SCHOOL HOUSE, RECEIVED & NAMED
            The Trustees of School Township No 13. of Range 7, in 
                        Shelby County
                     having Examined a School house Erected in the first School destrict in Said Township,
                    and found the  same Completed. And it being the first School
                    house finished in the Said Township, Therefore it is designated as "School destrict No.
                    1.["] And to be Known by the Name of "The Franklin School house" in said
                    township
            December 17th 1832,
            Benjamin Hodges
            Balsor Rhodes Trustees
            Attest
            Wm H. Sleeth Clk
            Recorded 17th December 1832
            Wm H Sleeth. Clerk
            CONTRACT, WITH, TEACHER. 1ST.
                        DESTRICT
            
            Article of an agreement made and Entered into by and between Jacob Summey of the one part, and Balsor
                    Fox, Peter Laycock and Jacob Fox Sub-trustees of School destrict No 1. in School Township No
                    Thirteen of Range Seven in the County of 
                        Shelby
                     and State of Indiana, Witnesseth: that the Said Jacob Summey on his part does agree To
                    Teach an English School5 at the Franklin School house. To wit. Reading, Writing
                    and Arithmetic to the best of his abilities, for the Term of three months, five days in each week,
                    to Commence School on the 18th of this instant to take up school each day at 8. oclock
                    A.M.—And the Said Balsor Fox, Peter Laycock and Jacob Fox, sub-trustees as aforesaid do
                    on their part agree to pay the said Jacob Summey the sum of Forty two dollars for his services To be
                    paid at the expiration of Said term as follows to wit, the amounts which will be drawn from the
                    School fund of Said Township to be paid in Cash, the ballance, if any to be paid in produce
                    delivered at the School house agreeable to the Vote taken by the voters of Said destrict at the
                    market price, Witness our hands and seals this 17th day of December 1832,
            Jacob Summey
            Balsor Fox
            Peter Laycock
            Jacob Fox
            Recorded the 17th December
            WmH Sleeth Clk
            
               
                  5 An "English" school in Indiana pioneer days placed
                        emphasis on instruction in the English language, reading, writing, and arithmetic.
            
            
            [MEETING OF THE TRUSTEES]
            At a Meeting of the Trustees of School Township No 13. Range 7. met in the Town of 
                        Marion
                     on Saturday the 26th. day of January 1833.
            It is ordered by the Trustees that Caleb Sleeth be appointed Sub Trustee of School Destrict No 2, to
                    fill the Vacancy occassioned by the removal of John Smith, late Sub trustee, Also that Arthur C.
                    Tullis be appointed Sub-Trustee to fill the Vacancy Occassioned by the absconding of Joseph Glancey
                    Esqr late Sub trustee
            Benjamin Hodges
            John V. Conover Trustees
            Balsor Rhodes
            Test
            Wm H Sleeth Clk
            CENTRE SCHOOL HOUSE
            
            The Trustees of School Township No 13. of Range 7. in 
                        Shelby County
                    , having Examined a school house Erected in the 4th School destrict of Said Township,
                    And found the same Completed. And it being the Second School house finished in Said Township,
                    Therefore it is designated and Known by the name of the Centre School House in Destrict No Two in
                    Said Township
            January 11th. 1833.
            Benjamin Hodges
            Balsor Rhodes Trustees
            Attest
            Wm H Sleeth Clk
            CONTRACT WITH TEACHER 2ND DESTRICT
            
            Articles of Agreement made and entered into between William Monroney of the One part, and we Peter
                    Hinds, John Sleeth and Robert Benefiel, Sub Trustees of Destrict number four (Two) in Congressional
                    Township thirteen north of Range Seven East and Trustees of Centre School house in the County of 
                        Shelby
                     and state of Indiana of the Other part, Witnesseth, that, the aforesaid Monroney,
                    agrees  with the aforesaid Trustees To teach School for them for
                    the term of three months, commencing on the fourteenth of January 1833. And the Said Monroney agrees
                    to Teach Spelling, reading, writing, and Arithmetick and at all times be subject to the rules and
                    Regulations, prescribed by the Trustees of Said School, for the Government of the same, And we Peter
                    Hinds John Sleeth and Robert Benefiel Trustees (as before mentioned) do agree to pay the aforesaid
                    Monroney the sum of thirteen dollars per month (to be paid against the expiration of the Term) for
                    the term of three months (if the Said Monroney Should Keep that term of time) and we agree further
                    to find or cause to be found a plenty of Fire wood for the use of Said School: In Witness of the
                    above agreement, we have Set our hands, this twelfth day of January 1833. P.S. The Said Monroney
                    reserves every other Saturday to himself.
            William Monroney
            Peter Hinds
            John Sleeth Sub trustees
            Robert Benefiel
            Recorded the 2nd day of February 1833
            Wm H Sleeth. Town [ship] Clerk
            [TRUSTEES' REPORT OF RECEIPTS AND PAYMENTS]
            The Trustees of School Township No 13. of Range 7. Acknowledge the Receipt of One hundred and Eighty
                    Eight dollars and forty three & one fourth cents (from M.C. Vanpelt, Commissioner of the
                    school Lands of 
                        Shelby County
                     Indiana) for the use of Schools in Said Township. Received the 24th day of January
                    1833.
            Report of the Trustees To the County Commissioners At their January Term 1833.
            For all Rents Received from the unsold part of the School Section in Said Township, for the Years
                    1830, 1831, & 1832, To wit One hundred and Ninty nine dollars & Seven and half cents
            
               
                  Making Amt Total
                  $387.50¾
               
            
            
            Drafts given on the Treasurer of School Township for Money To pay Teachers To wit.
            March 30th 1833.
            
               
                  To Sub Trustees of the Franklin School Destrict
                  $42.00
               
               
                  To Sub Trustees of the Centre School
                  $39.00.
               
            
            [MEETING OF THE TRUSTEES]
            At a Meeting of the Trustees of School Township No 13. of Range No 7. Met in the Town of 
                        Marion
                     on 20th July 1833
            Present Benjamin Hodges, John V Conover, and Balsor Rhodes Esqrs. Trustees as aforesaid
            Comes now Wm H Sleeth late Clerk of Said Trustees, and produced the Record, and all the papers
                    belonging to Said Office, and tenders the Same to the Board, which is received
            The Board then proceeded to appoint one of their own Body Clerk Whereupon Balsor Rhodes was appointed
                    Clerk of the Township
            Comes now Benjamin Hodeges Treasurer of Said Township and makes the following Report, which is
                    received by the Board To wit, "The undersigned respectifully Report to the Trustees of
                    Congressional Township No thirteen of Range 7. E. the payment of the following Sums of the publick
                    money, deposited with me to wit. On The Second day of May 1833, to Balsor Fox, Jacob Fox and Peter
                    Laycock sub trustees of the Franklin School Destrict, Number 1. the Sum of Forty two dollars for
                    Tuition in Said Destrict. Also the Sum of Thirty nine dollars to Peter Hinds, Robert Benefiel
                    & John Sleeth Sub trustees of the Centre School Destrict No two paid on the thirteenth day
                    of Aprile 1833.["]
            July 6th 1833. Benjamin Hodges Treasurer
            No further business the Board Adjourned
            Balsor Rhodes Clk
            [MEETING OF THE TRUSTEES]
            At a meeting of the Trustees of Congressional Township No 13 N of Range 7 E east [sic],
            
            The following Gentlemen appeared and produced a Certificate of there Election for Trustees of Said
                    Township from under the hand of M C Vanpelt Commissioner of the School lands of 
                        Shelby County
                    , with an endorsement on the back therof of the oath of office beari[n]g date the 2nd.
                    day September 1833. To wit J. R. OCull To serve for and during the Term of three years from and
                    after the 31st. day of August 1833,
            Balsor Rhodes To serve for and during the Term of Two Years from and after the 31st day of August
                    1833.
            Benjamin Hodges to serve for and during the Term of one year from and after the 31st. day of August
                    1833
            The board being organised preceded to business
            Ordered that J R OCull be appointed Clerk of the Trustees of said Township for and during the Term of
                    one year from and after the 31st. day of August 1833
            Ordered that Benjamin Hodges be appointed Treasure of sd Township for & during the Term of
                    one year from and after the 31st. day of August 1833
            J R OCull Clerk
            ELECTION RETURNS DISTRICT NO. 1
            We the undersigned judges and Clerks of the within named election do hereby Certify that Balsor Fox
                    Received six Votes for district Trustee, and Peter Laycock Received six votes for the same office
                    & Wm. H Sleath received six votes for the same office
            Given under our hands this 5th. day of October 1833
            Benjamin Hodges Inspector
            Adam Rhoads
            Balsor Rhoads Judges
            Wm. H Sleeth
            Jesse Hodges Clerks
            I do hereby certify the above is a true Copy of The certificate of the judges clerks &c of an
                    Election held in district No. 1 Congressional T 13 R 7 E on Saturday the 5th. day Oct 1833
            J R OCull Crk
            
            DISTRICT NO. 2ND. ELECTION RETURN
            
            We John Sleeth Inspector Nymphus Bassett and Peter Hinds Judges; and Robert Benefield and William
                    Monroney Clerks of the above Election do certify that Nymphas Bassett Received ten votes Spencer
                    Thayer seven votes and Robert Benefield seven votes Peter Hinds three votes Jonas Sleeth three for
                    district Trustees
            John Sleeth Inspector
            Peter Hinds
            Nymphus Bassett Judges
            Wm. Monroney
            Robert Benefield Clerks
            I do hereby certify the above is a true Copy of the certificate of the Inspector Judges and Clerks of
                    an Election in destrict No. 1 congressional Township 13 N of Range 7 E on Saturday the 5th. day of
                    October 1833
            J R OCull Clerk
            T 13 N R 7 E6
            
            A MEETING OF DISTRICT NO. 2
            At a meeting of the freeholders and householders of the second District of Congressional Township
                    thirteen North, Range seven East of the County of 
                        Shelby
                     and State of Indiana, At Centre Schoolhouse in said District on the Twenty first of
                    Sept 1833
            And on a motion being made to know if the inhabitants aforsaid district were willing to support a
                    school for Three months or longer in a year
            It was decided in the afirmative (by a unanimous vote) to support a school for six months. And
                    further The Trustees of said district Employ a teacher for said term of six months 
                  
                     6 Abbreviations for "Township 13 North, Range 7
                            East" appear in many forms and with varying punctuation throughout the document:
                            the most common form, T 13 N R 7 E, has been accepted as the standard abbreviation in this
                            reproduction and is normally used wherever this identification follows a signature. No
                            change has been made in the form or punctuation of this identification when it appears in
                            the text of an item.
               
                     And thereupon the said Trustees emploid William Monroney for
                    six months for Thirteen Dollars per Month
            School to commence on Monday the 30th. day of September
            I certify that the above is a true copy of the above meeting
            October 9th. 1833 John Sleeth Clerk
            Recorded this 16th. day of November 1833
            J R OCull Clerk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            TREASURES BOND FRANK[L]IN DISTRICT
            
            Know all men by thes presents that we Balsor Fox and Wm H Sleeth of 
                        Shelby County
                    , are held and firmly bound unto the State of Indiana in the sum of five hundred
                    Dollars, lawfull money of the 
                        United States
                     for the payment of which well & truly to be made and done we bind our selves
                    our Heirs executors and administrators jointly and severally firmly by these presents Sealed with
                    our seals and dated this 12th. day of November AD 1833
            The condition of the above obligation is such, that if the above bound Balsor Fox will faithfully
                    discharge the duties of his office as District treasure in 
                        Franklin
                     District No. 1 Congressional Township 13 N of Range 7 E For one year from and after the
                    5th. day of October 1833 And will render a true and just account of all moneys which may come to his
                    hands by virtue of his said office And will at the expiration of his term of servis del[i]ver to his
                    successor in office all Books, papers documents and all other things belonging to the said office
                    and which may be in his hands and possession by virtue thereof. And will more over pay to his
                    successor all moneys which may be in his hands blonging to the District: Then the above obligation
                    to be void and of none affect, Otherwise to be and remain in full force and virtue in law
            Balsor Fox
            Wm. H Sleeth
            attes
            J R OCull Clerk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            Recorded the 18th. day of November 1833
            
            DESTRICT NO 3 APOINTMENT OF
                        TRUSTEES
            
            State of Indiana
            
                    
                        Shelby County
                    
                
            It is ordered by the undersigned that Bernard Bassett be and is hereby appointed Destrict Trustee in
                    Destrict No. 3 Congressional Township No 13 North of Range 7 E for & during the term of one
                    year from & after the 5th. day of October 1833 and to continue in office untill his sucessor
                    is qualified Given under my hand this 23d day of Oct 1833
            J R OCull Clerk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            State of Indiana
            
                    
                        Shelby County
                    
                
            Personally appeared before me the undersigned Clerk of Congressional Township 13 N 01 Range 7 E
                    Bernard Bassett and took an oath faithfully to discharge his duty as Destrict Trustee in Destrict N
                    3 Congressional Township above mentioned for & during the term of one Year from &
                    after the 5th. day of Oct 1833 Given under my hand this 23 of October 1833
            J R OCull Clerk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            State of Indiana
            
                    
                        Shelby County
                    
                
            It is ordered by the undersigned that Michael M Mayers be and is hereby appointed Destrict Trustee in
                    Destrict No. 3 Congressional Township No. 13 N of Range 7 E for & during the term of one
                    year from and after the 5th. day of October 1833 and to continue In office untill his sucessor is
                    qualified Given under my hand this 23rd. day of October 1833
            J R OCull Clerk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            State of Indiana
            
                    
                        Shelby County
                    
                
            Personally appeared before me the undersigned Clerk of the Trustees of Congressional Township No 13 N
                    of R 7 E Michael M Mayers & Took an oath faithfully to descharge his duty as destrict
                    Trustee in destrict No 3 Congressional Township 13 N of Range 7 E for & during the term of
                    one Year from and after the 5th of Oct 1833 Given under my hand this 23rd. of Oct 1833
            J R OCull Clerk
            Recorded Oct 25 1833
            T 13 N R 7 E
            
            State of Indiana
            
                    
                        Shelby County
                    
                
            It is ordered by the undersigned that James H Jonson be and is hereby appointed Destrict Trustee in
                    Destrict No 3 Congressional Township No 13 N of R 7 E for & during the Term of one year from
                    & after the 5th. day of October 1833 and to continue in office untill his successor is
                    qualified. Given under my hand this 23rd day of Oct 1833
            J R OCull Clerk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            State of Indiana
            
                    
                        Shelby County
                    
                
            Personally appeared before me the undersigned Clerk of Congressional Township N 13 N Range 7 E James
                    H Johnson & took an oath faithfully to descharge his duty as Destrict Trustee in Destrict N
                    3 Congressional Township 13 N of Range 7 E for and during the term of one year from and after the
                    5th. day of October 1833 Given under my hand this 23rd. of October 1833
            J R OCull Clerk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            LIST OF INHABITANCE IN DISTRICT NO. 2
            A copy of the list of the Inhabitance (who are entitled to vote) of the second district of
                    Congressional Township thirten North Range seven East in the County of 
                        Shelby
                     and State of Indiana and of the quantity of Land held by each, and the number of
                    Children under twenty one years of age, annexed to the name of each person in whose house they
                    reside; divided into three classes; that is, those under five years, those under fourteen years and
                    not under five, and those under twenty one years and not under fourteen years of age.7
            
            
               
                  7 As a result of errors either in the district report or in the
                        clerk's copying, some columns in the following and other tables do not add up to the
                        totals given. For example, Charles F. Johson [sic] is listed below as having 8
                        children under 21 years of age, but the next three columns indicate he had 10 children. Also,
                        the figures in the last column below do not produce the total shown. No attempt has been made to
                        determine what the correct figures would be in any of the tables containing such
                        inconsistencies.
            
            
            
               
                   
                  No. of Voters
                  Taxable Land [in acres]
                  Untaxable Land8
                  
                  Whole Amt Land
                  No of Children Under 21 ys
                  No under 5 Years
                  No un 14 & ove 5 Years
                  No of Children un 21 ys & over 14 ys
               
               
                   
                   
                  A
                  A
                  A
                   
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Peter Hinds
                  1
                  160
                   
                  160
                  9
                  2
                  4
                  3
               
               
                  Robert Benefield
                  1
                   
                  80
                  80
                  8
                  2
                  4
                  2
               
               
                  John Sleeth
                  1
                  80
                   
                  80
                  5
                   
                  3
                  2
               
               
                  Charles F Johson
                  1
                  80
                   
                  80
                  8
                  2
                  3
                  5
               
               
                  Samuel Baly
                  1
                   
                   
                   
                  9
                  2
                  5
                  2
               
               
                  Absalom Rhodes
                  1
                  80
                   
                  80
                  6
                  1
                  5
                   
               
               
                  Nymphus Bassett
                  1
                  350
                   
                  350
                  9
                  2
                  4
                  3
               
               
                  Spencer Thayer
                  1
                  120
                  55
                  175
                  4
                  1
                  2
                  1
               
               
                  Able Summers
                  1
                   
                  80
                  80
                  4
                  1
                  2
                  1
               
               
                  David Colglazer
                  1
                  20
                  40
                  60
                  7
                  1
                  6
                   
               
               
                  John Davis
                  1
                   
                  160
                  160
                  5
                  1
                  1
                  3
               
               
                  Jonas Sleeth
                  1
                   
                  25
                  25
                  13
                  3
                  7
                  3
               
               
                  Mark Williams
                  1
                   
                   
                   
                  6
                  3
                  3
                   
               
               
                  Gabriel Williams
                  1
                   
                   
                   
                  6
                  3
                  3
                   
               
               
                  Philemon Robbins
                  1
                  180
                  80
                  260
                  5
                  2
                  2
                  1
               
               
                  William Monroney
                  1
                   
                   
                   
                  3
                   
                  3
                   
               
               
                  Morgan Kennedy
                  1
                   
                   
                   
                  2
                  1
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Jacob A Hinds
                  1
                  80
                  240
                  320
                  1
                   
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Apollis Kinsley
                  1
                   
                  152
                  152
                  4
                  2
                  2
                   
               
               
                  William Bollibough
                  1
                  80
                  80
                  160
                   
                  1
                   
                   
               
               
                  Henry Selwood
                  1
                   
                   
                   
                  4
                  2
                  2
                   
               
               
                  Charles Sweet
                  1
                   
                   
                   
                  3
                  1
                   
                  2
               
               
                  David Bone
                  1
                   
                   
                   
                  3
                  1
                   
                  2
               
               
                  Beverley Simpson
                  1
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  John L [C?] Watson
                  1
                   
                   
                   
                  1
                  1
                   
                   
               
               
                  John Henry
                  1
                   
                   
                   
                  1
                  1
                   
                   
               
               
                  John Pell
                  1
                   
                  80
                  80
                  4
                  2
                  2
                   
               
               
                  James Steel
                  1
                   
                   
                   
                  1
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  Robert Steel
                  1
                   
                   
                   
                  1
                  1
                   
                   
               
               
                  Jacob Rhoads
                  1
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Thomas Summers
                  1
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Jonah Bassett
                  1
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  Elizabeth Smallwood
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  3
                   
                  3
                   
               
               
                  Katharine Snow
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  5
                  1
                  3
                  1
               
               
                  William Weston
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  4
                  2
                  1
                  1
               
               
                   
                   
                  No of children
                  143
                  41
                  73
                  29
               
            
            
               
                  8 When Indiana became a state, a compact was made between the state and
                        the federal government that land sold from the public domain would remain tax exempt for a
                        period of five years from its sale in return for certain donations then given to the state or
                        its residents.
            
            
            N B There are one hundred and forty three children in the destrict forty one of whom are under five
                    years seventy three are ove[r] five and under furteen and twenty nine are over fourteen and under
                    twenty one Years Of age
            William Monrony Lister & C
            Recorded this 23d. day of November 1833
            J R OCull Clerk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            DRAFT ON THE SCHOOL FUND
            
            State of Indiana
            
                    
                        Shelby County
                    
                
            February 3rd. 1834
            At a meeting of the Trustees of Congressional Township No. 13 North of Range 7 E It is hereby ordered
                    that M C Vanpelt School Commitioner of 
                        Shelby County
                     Indiana pay to Benjamin Hodges Treasurer of Congressional Township No 13 N of Range 7 E
                    One hundred and eighty eight Dollars fiftyfour cents it being the amount of Interest Due said
                    Township for the Year 1834 In advance
            J R OCull Clk
            Balsor Rhoads [Trustees]
            Benjamin Hodges
            APOINTMENT OF DESTRICT TRUSTEES IN DEST NO. 2 [4]
            State of Indiana
            
                    
                        Shelby County
                    
                
            It is ordered by the undersigned that William Smith, be & is hereby appointed Destrict
                    Trustee in destrict No 2 Congressional Township No. 13 N of Range 7 E for and during the Term of one
                    Year from and after the 5th. day of October 1833 And to continue in office untill his sucssessor is
                    qualified Given under my hand this 12th. day of January 1834
            J R OCull, Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            State of Indiana
            
                    
                        Shelby County
                    
                
            Personally appeared before me the undersigned Clerk of Congressional Township No 13 N of Range 7 E
                    Wm. Smith and Took an oath faithfully to discharge his duty as destrict Trustee in Destrict No 2
                    Congressional Township above named for the term of  one Year
                    from and after the 5th. day of October 1833 Given under my hand this 12th. day of Jany 1834
            J R OCull Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            State of Indiana
            
                    
                        Shelby County
                    
                
            It is ordered by the undersigned that Mathew B Gouldon be and is hereby appointed Destrec Trustee in
                    Destrect No. 2 Congressional Township No. 13 N of Range 7 E for and during the term of one year from
                    & after the 5th. day October 1833 And To continue in office untill his Successor is
                    qualified Given under my hand this 12th. day of Jany 1834
            J R OCull Clerk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            State of Indiana
            
                    
                        Shelby County
                    
                
            Personally appeared before me the undersigned Clerk of Congressional Township No. 13 N of Range 7 E
                    Mathew B Gouldon and took an oath faithfully to discharge his duty as Destrict Trustee in Destrict
                    No. 2 Congressional Township above mentioned for and during the term of one year from and after the
                    5th. day of October 1834 Given under my hand this 2nd. day of Jay 1834
            J R OCull Clerk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            State of Indiana
            
                    
                        Shelby County
                    
                
            It is ordered by the undersigned that James Bates be and is hereby appointed Destrict Trustee in
                    destrict No. 2 Congressional Township No. 13 N of Range 7 E for and during the term of one year from
                    and after the 5th. day of October 1833 And To continue in office untill his successor is qualified
                    Given under my hand this 12th. day of Jany 1834
            J R OCull Clerk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            State of Indiana
            
                    
                        Shelby County
                    
                
            Personally appeared before me the under-signed Clerk of Congressional Township No. 13 N of Rang 7 E
                    James Bates and took an oath faithfully to discharge his duty as destrect Trustee in Destric No. 2
                    Congressional Township above mentioned for & during the term of one year from &
                    after the 5th day of October 1833 Given under my hand this 12th. day of Jany 1834
            J R OCull Clerk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            
            TREASOR'S BOND DESTRICT NO. 4 [2]9
            
            Know all men by these presents that we Nymphas Bassett and Benjamin Hodges of the County of 
                        Shelby
                     are held and firmly bound unto the State of Indiana in the Sum of Five hundred Dollars
                    lawful money of the 
                        United States
                    , for the payment of which well & truly to be made and done we bind ourselves
                    our Heirs Executors and Administrators jointly and firmly by these presents, sealed with our seals
                    & dated this 12th. day of February 1834
            The condition of the above obligation is such that if the Above bound Nympas Bassett will faithfully
                    discharge the duties of his office as destrict Trustee in Destrict No 4 Congressional Township No.
                    13 North of Range 7 East for one year from and after the 5th. day of October 1833 &. will
                    render a true and just Account of all money which may come to his hands by virtue of his said office
                    and will at the Expiration of his term of service deliver to his Successor in office all Books
                    Papers documents all [and] all other things belonging to the said office which may be in his hands
                    & possession by virtue thereof and will more over pay to his successor all moneys which may
                    be in his hands belonging to the said destrict Then the above Obligation to be void and of none
                    affect Otherwise to remain in full force & virtue in law
            Nympas Bassett
            Benjamin Hodges
            attest
            J R OCull
            TREASURES BOND DESTRICT NO 3
            [Bernard Bassett, district treasurer, was bonded on November 26, 1833, in the amount of
                    $500 for a period of one year beginning October 5, 1833; Arthur C. Tullis was guarantor.]
            APOINTMENT OF TRUSTEES IN DESTRICT No. 6
            State of Indiana
            
                    
                        Shelby County
                    
                
            It is ordered by the undersigned that Jacob Rice be and is hereby appointed 
                  
                     9 Bonds of district treasurers occur throughout these records in
                            essentially this form (see also "Treasures Bond Frank[l] in District," p.
                            299). Because of space limitations, only the following information is given for bonds in the
                            remainder of this document: district number; name of treasurer; date, amount, and period of
                            the bond; name of guarantor.
               
                     Destrict Trustee in Destrict No. 6 Congressional Township No.
                    13 North of Range 7 E for and during the term of one year from and after the 5th. day of October
                    1833 and to continue in office untill his successor is qualified Given under my hand this 8th day of
                    Jany 1834
            J R OCull Clerk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            State of Indiana
            
                    
                        Shelby County
                    
                
            It is ordered by the undersigned that James Woodard be and is hereby appointed Destrict Trustee in
                    Destrict No. 6 Congressional Township No. 13 North of Range 7 E east for & during the term
                    of one year from & after the 5th. day of October 1833 And To continue in office untill his
                    successor is qualified Given under my hand this 8th. day of January 1834
            J R OCull Clerk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            State of Indiana
            
                    
                        Shelby County
                    
                
            It is ordered by the undersigned that John Glenn be and is hereby appointed Destrict Treasurer
                    [Trustee?] in Destrict No. 6 Congressional Township No. 13 North of Range 7 E east for and during
                    the term of one year from and after the 5 day of October 1834 and continue in office untill his
                    successor is qualified given under my hand this 8th. day of January 1834
            J R OCull Clerk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            TREASURES BOND DESTRICT NO 6
            [James Woodard, district treasurer, was bonded on January 6, 1834, in the amount of $500
                    for a period of one year beginning October 5, 1833; Jacob Rice was guarantor.]
            ORDER TO SCHOOL COMMTIONER
            
            State of Indiana
            
                    
                        Shelby County
                    
                
            February 3rd. 1834
            At a meeting of the Trustees of Congressional Township No. 13 N of Range 7 E east, It is hereby
                    ordered that M C Vanpelt School Commetioner of 
                        Shelby
                    
                     County Indiana pay To Benjamin Hodges Treasure of Congressional
                    Township No. 13 N of Range 7 E east One hundred and Eighty Eight Dollars fifty four cts it being the
                    amount of Interest due said Township for the preceding year
            J R OCull
            Balsor Rhods Tr[ustee]s
            Benjamin Hodges
            ORDER FOR AN ELECTION FOR TOWSHIP TRUSTEE
            
            July 9th. 1834
            At a meeting of the Trustees of Congressional Township No. 13 North of Range 7 E east in the Town of 
                        Marion
                     Ordered
            That An Election be held on the last Saturday in August next for purpose of Electing a Township
                    Trustee To fill the Vacancy of Benjamin Hodges
            Ordered That W H Sleeth be appointed [inspector?] of said Election for Trustee
            DESTRICT TR[EA]S[URERS'] RECEIPTS
            
            $78 Received of Benjamin Hodges Treasurer of Congressional Township Thirteen North Range 7
                    East in 
                        Shelby County
                     seventy eight Dollars, It being pay in full for servisis Rendered by William Monroney
                    for six months Teaching school at Center Scoolhouse in the 2nd. Destrict of the a fore sd. Township
                    Commencing on the 3rd. of September 1833 la April 4th. 1834
            Nympus Bassett Treasur
            2nd Dt T 13 N R 7 E
            Received of Benjamin Hodges Treasure of Congressional Township No. 13 N of Range 7 E east, The sum of
                    Forty seven Dollars Eighty seven and one half Cents It being to pay a Teacher for one quarters
                    Teaching School, Boarding said term & blank hood [book?] for The Destrict Clerk Received by
                    me this 12th day of April 1834
            Balsor Fox Dest Treasure
            Fran[klin] School Dstrict No 1
            
            July 12th 1834
            Claims on Congressional Township No 13 Range 7 E
            To wit
            
               
                  For Tuition for 1 quarters Schooling
                  $41.00
               
               
                  For boarding Teacher
                  6 50
               
               
                  Blank book for Dst Treasure
                  37 1/2
               
               
                  Amount Totle
                  $47.87 1/2
               
               
                  Balsor Fox,
                  Dst. Treasur
               
            
            Received July 12th. 1834 of Benjamin Hodges Treasure of Congressional Township No. 13 N of R 7 E in 
                        Shelby County
                    , Ia, The sum of Forty sevn Dollars Eighty seven 1/2 cts Recived by me
            Balsor Fox. D. T.
            F[ranklin] District]
            Ordered That the Township Treasure be allowed one Dollar 12 1/2 cts for blank book for said Treasures
                    office
            J R OCull Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            ELECTION RETURNS DESTRICT No 6
            At an Election Held at the School house in District No. 6 T.13 N of R 7 East for the purpose of
                    electing three Destrict Trustees for the next year This 4th. day of October 1834
            We the judges & clerks do hereby certify that Jacob Rice received eleven votes James Woodard
                    receved eleven votes Eli Jones receved Eleven votes for Trustees and the above was duely Elected
            Lewis Huffman
            William G Morris [Judges]
            Washington Young
            Thomas Ashley
            Jacob Rice Clerks
            MEETING of THE TRUSTEES
            
            Oct 11th. 1834
            At a meeting of the Trustees of Congressional Township No. 13 N of Range 7 E in the Town of 
                        Marion
                        Shelby County
                     Indiana
            
            Ordered that J R OCull be and is here by appointed to serve as Clerk for one year from &
                    after the first day of August 1834
            Ordered that Benjamin Hodges be and is here by appointed Treasure of Said Township to serve as such
                    for one year from & after the 1st day of August 1834
            Ordered that the Destrict in said Township Recorded & Designated as Destrict No. 2. be
                    & the same is hereby changed & to be known as Dest No 4
            The board then adjourned
            J R OCull Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            TREASURE'S BOND DESTRICT No 4
            [James Bates, district treasurer, was bonded on January 18, 1834, in the amount of $500
                    for a period of one year beginning October 5, 1834; Gilbert Bacles (Bates?) was guarantor.]
            FRANKLIN DESTRICT DECISSION of &C
            At a meeting of the House holders and free holders … who are voters of the Franklin School
                    Destrict No. 1 of Congressional Township No. 13 of Range 7 East met at the Franklin School house on
                    Saturday the 23rd. day of November 1833 agreeably to previous notice given
            On Motion taken by consent It is ordered that the destrict trustees be authorised to employ a teacher
                    for said Destrict in any way they may think most advantagious for the destrict for the term of nine
                    months if they think the school funds and amount of tax that can be raised in said destrict will
                    support a school that length of Time; but not less than six months.
            W H Sleeth Dst Clk
            A true copy from the Record
            Wm H Sleeth Dest Clerk
            SECOND DEST DECISSION of &C
            At a Meeting of the freeholders and Householders of the second Destrict of Congressional Township
                    thirteen North  Range 7 East in the County of 
                        Shelby
                     and State of Indiana held at Center School House on the sixth day of August 1834
            And on a motion being made to know if said Inhabitance were willing to suport a school for the term
                    of six months it was decided in the afirmative; And a second motion being made it was decided that
                    if there should not be money enough coming to the Destrict from the Township Treasure to pay teacher
                    for the term of six months that each person sail pay in proportion to the number of schollars that
                    he sends to school the ballance in trade and there upon the meeting adjourned
            Robert Benefield D C
            FOURTH DESTRECT DECISSION of &C
            January the 18th. 1834
            William Smith James Baits Mathew B Gouldon being appointed by J R OCull and after being sworne
                    according to law formed themselves into a board and appointed M B Goulding as Clerk Then entering on
                    there duties called a meeting of the Inhabitance of Dest No. 2 at the center of said Destrict in
                    congressional Township 13 N of Range 7 E at which meeting of freeholders and house holders they
                    agree suport a publick school Three months in each year also to build a school house at the center
                    of said Destrict on a piece of land donated by Beten Rhoads for that purpose, the House to be 18 by
                    22 feet good floore, cabin, Roof with sufficient lights10 And suittable for a
                    school And That all agreed to work and pay An Eaqual share in work And Materials to complet said
                    House; And agreed to Name the House Jackson School House that we the Inhabitance of Destrict No. 4
                    that we be & they are hereby constatuted a boddy polatick and corperate in Destrict No. 4 in
                    Town 13 Rang 7 and the Inhabitance agree to pay tax acording to what scholars they sent if wanted
            June the 20th. The Inhabitance of Sa[i]d Destrict direct the Trustees to Employ a teacher for the
                    term of six months where upon we the under signed Trustees has Employed John Sharp for the term of
                    six months for the term of sixteen Dollars and two thirds per month
            Mathew B Goulden
            James Bates [District Trustees]
            William Smith
            
               
                  10 Apparently windows.
            
            
            APOINTMENT DEST TRUSTEE DEST No. 3 for 1834 & 5
            State of Indiana
            
               
                        Shelby County
                     ss11
            
            It is ordered by the undersigned That Wm F Ross Ephraim Beggs and Elijah Town be & are here
                    by appointed Destrict Trustees in Destrict No. 3 Congressional Township No. 13 N of Range 7 E for
                    & during the term of one year from & after the 5th. of October 1834 and to continue
                    in office untill there successor are appointed
            Given under my hand this 17th. of February 1835
            J R OCull Clerk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            MEETING of the TRUSTEES FEBRY 23RD, 1835
            At a meeting of the Trustees of Congressional Township No. 13 N of Range 7 E
            On Motion a petiton was presented signed by sundry citazens of the first, second & third
                    Destrict praying the said Trustees to so alter & [word missing] the lines of the sd Destrict
                    so as to make Blewreber [Blue River] the line, and attach the North half of 
                        Marion
                     to the Franklin Destrict, & the South half to Center Destrict
            On a motion a petition was presented Remonstrating against the above named petition
            After consideration posponed the Decision untill the next meeting12
            
            Then was presented by the Township treasure sundry receipts from sundry Destrict Treasures for Record
            J R OCull Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            [Record of Treasurers' Receipts]
            Treasures Receipt Franklin Destrict
            Received of Benjamin Hodges Treasure of Congressional Township No. 13 of Range 7 E the sum of forty
                    four Dollars it being infull for one quarters schooling and boarding during said Term for servissis
                    rendered by William Monroney at the Franklin school house this 2nd. day of January 1835
            Balsor Fox Treaure
            
               
                  11 Scilicet, or to wit.
               
                  12 Here and elsewhere are instances of petitions or requests for changes
                        in district boundaries. As indicated in the minutes, some petitions were granted, others were
                        not. The township trustees had authority to alter district lines.
            
            
            Receipt from Center Destrict
            Received of Benjamin Hodges Treasurer of Congressional Township No. 13 of Range 7 E east the sum of
                    thirty Dollars it being in full for servissis rendered by Jonas Sleeth for three months tuition in
                    the Center School Destrict No. 2 Received this 25th. day of December 1834
            Nymphas Bassett Dst Treasure
            Recept from the 4th. Destrict $50.37 1/2 cts
            Received of Benjamin Hodges treasurer of Congressional Township north Range seven east in 
                        Shelby County
                     Fifty Dollars & thirty seven & ahalf cts in full for servissis Rendered
                    by John Sharp for three months teaching school in the 4th. Dest of the a fore said Township
            Indiana Nov. the 10th. 1834
            James Bates Teas
            Dest No 4 T 13 N R 7 E
            TREASURERS BOND DISTRICT No 6
            [Eli Jones, district treasurer, was bonded on April 8, 1835, in the amount of $500 for a
                    period of one year beginning April 8, 1835; James Woodard was guarantor.]
            ORDER for INTEREST T 13 N R 7 E
            State of Indiana
            
                    
                        Shelby County
                    
                
            February 23rd. 1835
            At a meeting of the Trustees of Congressional Township No. 13 N of Range 7 E It is hereby ordered
                    that Ovid Butler School Commitioner of 
                        Shelby County
                     Indiana pay to Benjamin Hodges Treasture of Congressional Township No. 13 N of Range 7
                    E the amount of Interest due Said Township for the preceding year
            J R OCull
            Benjamin Hodges trusstees
            Balser Rhoads
            [DISTRICTS VOTE on SCHOOL SUPPORT]
            Return From destrict No 2
            At a meeting of the inhabitance of Destrict No 2 Congressional Township 13 North, range 7 E at Center
                    school-house  in the same Destrict On the third day of October
                    AD 1835 and upon a vote being taken Whether the said Inhabitance were willing to support a school
                    for six months the vote was carried in the affirmative
            And upon the vote being whether the Inhabitance would pay the teacher the ballance if any according
                    to the number of scholars they send to school or be governed by the school Law tax the vote was
                    carried in the affirmative to pay the teacher in proportion to the nomber of scolars sent, to be
                    paid in produce at the market price.
            Robert Benefield D C
            Report From D C No 6
            August the 15th. 1835
            At a meeting of the citazens of Noble Schoolhouse No. 6 Town 13 R 7 E east a Majority of the citazens
                    Present decided in favor of A Six Months school commencing the 31st. day August and have Employed
                    Emands Manley to teach Three Months for forty Eight Dollars per quarter
            Eli Jones
            James Woodard Trustees
            Jacob Rice C D No 6
            Return From Destrict No 4
            At a meeting of the Inhabitance of destrict No. 4 Congressional Township 13 North of Rang 7 E. at the
                    Jackson School house in sd. destrict on the 14th. day of November AD 1835 and a vote being taken
                    whether the said Inhabitance were willing to support a school for the term of three months the vote
                    carried in the affirmative Als[o] agreed to Emply John Davis as teacher for sd. term at the
                    following rates, (viz) Ten Dollars per month and upon a vote being taken whether the inhabitants
                    would pay the teacher the ballance if any according to the number of scholars they send or be
                    governed by the school law the vote was carried in favor of paying according to the number of
                    schollars in produc at the market price
            a coppy of a list of the above procedings
            signed by James Bates T
            J R OCull Cl
            T 13 N R 7 E
            MEETIN[G] of the TRUSTEES NOVEMBER 26th 1835
            At a meeting of the Trustees of Congressional Township No. 13 North of Range 7 East
            
            The following gentlemen appeared and took ther seats (To wit) Benjamin Hodges J R OCull and Jacob Fox
                    the said Jacob Fox having prodused a surteficate of having been duly elected & Qualified
                    into office as Township Trustee to fill the vacancy of Balsor Rhoads
            On a vote being taken J R OCull was appointed Clerk of said Township for the Ensuing year
            On a vote being taken Benjamin Hodges was appointed Treasure for said Township for the preceding year
            Then was presented Sundry Receipts for record
            [Record of Treasurers' Receipts]
            1st Received of Benjamin Hodges treasurer of Congressional Township No. 13 N of Range 7 E in 
                        Shelby County
                     the sum of Forty two Dollars it being in full payment for servisces rendered by John M
                    Gordon for three months tuition in the Noble School house Commencing on the thirteenth day of April
                    1835 and ending on the 17th. day of July 1835
            Received this 27th. day of July 1835
            Eli Jones Destrict Treasurer
            Received of Benjamin Hodges Treasurer of Congressional Township No. 13 N of Range 7 East in 
                        Shelby County
                     Indiana the sum of forty two Dollars in full payment for servissis rendered by William
                    Monroney for three months tuition in the Center School house No. 2 commencing on the fifteenth day
                    of December 1834 and ending on the eighteenth of March 1835
            Nymphas Bassett Destrict Treasure
            Received of Benjamin Hodges treasure of Congressional Township No. 13 N of Range 7 East in 
                        Shelby County
                     the sum of forty five Dollars and fifty cents it being in full payment for servissis
                    Rendered by Jacob Vernon for three months tuition in the Franklin School house commencing on the
                    fifteenth day of December 1834 and ending on the 20th day of March 1835
            Balsor Fox destrict treasure
            Received of Benjamin Hodges treasure of Congressional Township No. 13 N of Range 7 E in 
                        Shelby County
                     the sum of thirty nine Dollars it being in full payment for serviss [cis?] rendered by
                    John M Gordon for three months tuition in the  Noble school
                    house No. 6 Commencing the 22nd. day of December 1834 and ending the 2nd. of April 1835 Received
                    8th. day of April 1835
            Eli Jones Destrict Treasurer
            Received of Benjamin Hodges Treasurer of Congressional Township No 13 N of Range 7 E the Sum of Fifty
                    Dollars it being infull for three Months Tuition by John Sharp at the Jackson School house in Det No
                    4
            Received this 3rd. day of March 1835
            James Bates Dst Treasure
            MEETING of the TRUSTEES
            
            Febry 25 1836
            At a meiting of the Trustees of Congressional Township No. 13 N of Range 7 E ordered that the School
                    Commetioner of 
                        Shelby County
                     pay Benjamin Hodges treasurer of Congressional Township No 13 N of Range 7 E east the
                    Amount of School fund due said Township for the year 1835 as witness our Hands day & date
                    above
            J R OCull
            Benjamin Hodges Town[ship] Trustees
            Jacob Fox
            MEETING of TRUSTEES
            
            August 13th. 1836
            At a meeting of the Trustees of Congressional Township No. 13 N of Range 7 E in the Town of 
                        Marion
                     Ordered that an election on the last Saturday in august next for the purpose of
                    electing a Township Trustee to fill the vacancy of J R OCull
            Ordered that Jacob Fox be appointed for Inspector
            Jacob Fox
            Benjamin Hodges Township Trustees
            [MEETING of the TRUSTEES]
            October 21st. 1836
            At a meting of the Trustees of Congresional Township No 13 North of Range 7 E east
            
            The following Gentleman appeard, and Took their Seats (Viz) Benjamin Hodges Jacob Fox and A. C.
                    Tullis the said A C Tullis having produced a Certificate of having been duly Elected, &
                    qualified into office as Township Trustee to fill the vacancy of J R OCull
            On a Vote being [taken] A C Tullis was appointed Clerk of said Township for the Ensuing Year
            On a Vote being Taken Benjamin Hodges was appointed Treasurer of Sd. Township for the Ensuing Year
            Then was presented by the Treasured of sd. Township sundry Receipts for Record (Viz)
            [Record of Treasurers' Receipts]
            Treasurer of Congresional Township No 13 of Range 7 East D[ebto]r
            To the Treasurer of the Jackson School destrict No four in said Township as follows (To wit) to John
                    Davis for teaching school in said destrict three months at $10 per month
                    $30.00
            Receivd of Benjamin Hodges Treasurer of Congresional Township No 13 North of Range 7 East Thirty
                    dollars in full the above account this 11th day of March 1836
            Benjamin Hodges Treasurer of Congresional Township 13 N of Range 7 East Dr
            To Balsor Fox destrict Treasurer of the Franklin School destrict No one in said Township To Cyrus
                    Wright for Teaching School 3 months Ending 8th day of Apriel 1836
            
               
                  at $12 dollars per month
                  $36.00
               
               
                  To Boarding Teacher 13 weeks @ 50 cts per week
                  6 50
               
               
                  amt
                  $42 50
               
            
            Balsor Fox Treasurer
            F[ranklin], D[istrict]
            Received of Benjamin Hodges Treasurer of Congresional Township 13 Range 7 E east forty Two dollars
                    and fifty cents in full of the above account
            Recvd by me this 7th. day of May 1836
            Balsor Fox district Trustee
            The Treasurer of Congresional Township No 13 of Range 7 East Dr
            To the Treasurer of the Franklin school destrict No 1 in said Township as follows (To Wit) To Cyrus
                    Write for
            
            
               
                  Teaching School in said destrict three months at $12 dollars per month
                  $36 00
               
               
                  To Bording Said Teacher 13 weeks @ 50 cents per week
                  6 50
               
               
                  Amt Total
                  $42 50
               
            
            January 9th 1836
            Receivd of Benjamin Hodges Treasurer of Congresional Township N 13 of Range 7 East forty Two dollars
                    and fifty cents in full of the above amount Received by me this 10th. day of March 1836
            Balsor Fox Treasurer
            Franklin School Destrict No one
            the Treasurer of Congresional Township No 13 of Range 7 East Dr
            To the Treasurer of the Center School Destrict No two in said Township as follows (To wit) to William
                    Monroney for Teaching school in said destrict three months @$11 45 5/6 of a
                    cent per month
            
               
                   
                  $34 37 1/2
               
               
                  To Boarding Said Teacher 13 weeks @ 62 1/2 cents per week
                  8 12 1/2
               
               
                  January. 18th. 1836 amt Total
                  $42 50
               
            
            Nymphas Bassett Treasurer
            Center School destrict No 2
            Receivd of Benjamin Hodges Treasurer of Congresional Township No 13 North of Range 7 East forty Two
                    dollars and fifty cents in full of the above account this 12th. day of March 1836
            Nymphas Bassett Treasurer
            Center School Destrict No 2
            [DISTRICT No. 3 TRUSTEE APPOINTED]
            State of Indiana
            
                    
                        Shelby County
                    
                
            It is orderd by the under Signed that Jesse Bol[ton] be and is hereby appointed Destrict Trustee to
                    fill the vacancy accasioned by the Removal of Wm F Ross in destrict No 3 Congresional Township 13 N
                    of Range 7 E east for and during the Term of one Year from and after the fifth day of October 1836
                    and to continue in office untill his Succesor is qualified in to office Given under my hand this
                    26th. day of October 1836
            A C Tullis Clerk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            
            State of Indiana
            
                    
                        Shelby County
                    
                
            Personaley appeard before me the undersigned Clerk of Congresional Township 13 North of Range 7 East
                    [Jesse Bolton?] and Took an oath faithfully to discharge his duties as destrict Trustee No 3 in
                    Congresional Township 13 R 7 East for the Term of one year from and after the 5th. day of October
                    1836 Given under my hand and this 26th day of October 1836
            A. C. Tullis Clerk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            Recorded
            [RECORD of TREASURERS' RECEIPTS]
            The Treasurer of Congresional Township No 13 of Range 7 East Dr
            To the Treasurer of the Noble School Destrict in Said Township as follows (To wit) To Emmons Manley
                    for Teaching School in Said Destrict three months at $17 per month Commencing on the
                    31st. day of August and ending on the 27th. of November 1836 $51
            Received of Benjamin Hodges Treasurer of Congresional Township No 13 North of Range 7 E east fifty
                    one dollars in full, of the above account. Receivd this 11th day of march 1836
            Eli Jones Destrict T
            The Treasurer of Congresional Township No 13 of Range 7 East Dr
            To the Treasurer of the Noble School destrict No 6 in Said Township as follows (to wit) to Emmons
                    Manley for Teaching School in Said destrict three months $16 per month Commencing on the
                    8th. of December and ending on the 1st. of March $48.00
            this 11th day of January 1836
            Eli Jones Destrict Tr
            Receivd of Benjamin Hodges Treasurer of Congresional Township No 13 North of Range 7 East forty eight
                    dollars in full of the above account Receivd this Eleventh day of March 1836
            Eli Jones destrict Treasurer
            Benjamin Hodges Treasur of Congresional Township No 13 Range 7 East Dr
            To Wm F Ross Destrict Treasurer of the 
                        Mount Vernon
                    
            
            
            School Destrict No 3 in Said Township To John Kennedy for Teaching School 3 months ending the 25th
                    day of may 1836 Forty five dollars Amount $45.00
            Wm F Ross Treasurer
            mount Vernon D.C [?]
            Recivd of Benjamin Hodges Treasurer of Congresional Township 13 Range 7 East Twenty Two dollars and
                    Fifty cents it Being in full of the above account13 November 25 1836
            Jesse Bolton D Trea
            Receivd of the above twenty too dollars & 50 cents August the 21st. 1836
            Wm F Ross
            AT a MEETING of the TRUSTEES
            
            January the 18th 1837
            At a meting of the Trustees of Congresional Township 13 North of Range 7 East
            a motion made and Seconded that the Record Should be examined To Try To rectify a mistake if any
                    Wherein Benjamin Hodges Treasurer is Charged on Record
            A motion made and Secconded that J. R. OCull former Clerk be called on To State What he knows on the
                    Subject
            On motion of A. C. Tullis and Secconded by J Fox that the Treasurer meet at Dr Cull office on the
                    1st. Saturday in February 1837 and then proceed To Settle up with Said Town Ship up to this date all
                    Rights and effects due said Town Ship for Rents and Interest due Congresional Town Ship 13 Range 7
                    East the meeting then adjournd
            A C Tullis Clerk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            [REPORT of DISTRICT No. 6]
            At a meeting held at Noble School house in destrict No 6 T 13 R 7 East a majority of the Citizens
                    present Voted in favor of a Six months Chool October the 15 1836
            Jacob Rice C[lerk]
            destrict No 6
            
               
                  13 This receipt for $22.50 and the following one for the same
                        amount cover the above statement for $45.00.
            
            
            [INHABITANTS in DISTRICT NO. 6]
            List for 1836
            A list of the Voters of School destrict No 6 T 13 N Range 7 East Together with the quantity of land
                    held by each Taxable and all so the Number of Children under the age of twenty one Years
                    distinguishing them in three Classes (Viz) those under five those under fourteen and not under five
                    those under Twenty one and not under Fourteen
            
               
                  Voters Names
                  Taxable Land
                  under five
                  under fourteen
                  under twenty one
               
               
                  Jacob Rice
                  240
                  1
                  4
                  3
               
               
                  James Rice
                   
                  1
                  
                  
               
               
                  Eliza Patterson
                   
                  1
                  
                  
               
               
                  James Woodard
                  160
                  3
                  4
                  3
               
               
                  Noah Burnes
                  360
                  2
                  4
                  
               
               
                  Thomas Whedes
                  135
                   
                  2
                  
               
               
                  Reason Whedes
                  195
                  2
                  2
                  
               
               
                  Elizabeth Morris
                   
                  1
                  
                  
               
               
                  F K Spangler
                   
                  4
                  3
                  1
               
               
                  Nancy Robertson
                   
                  2
                  3
                  2
               
               
                  Joseph Leaman
                  120
                  2
                  2
               
               
                  John Montgomery
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  James Carney
                   
                  2
                  
               
               
                  David Fields
                   
                  1
                  3
                  
               
               
                  John Glenn
                  160
                   
                  5
                  1
               
               
                  Wm G Morris
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Wm G Morris Sen
                  80
                   
                  3
                  2
               
               
                  John Durgan
                   
                  3
                  3
                  
               
               
                  T R Woodard
                   
                  3
                  2
                  
               
               
                  Lewis Huffman
                   
                  2
                  5
                  2
               
               
                  John Bush
                   
                  3
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Gabriel Batterton
                   
                  2
                  2
                  
               
               
                  R G Morris
                   
                  3
                  
               
               
                  Stephen Carney
                   
                   
                   
                  1
               
               
                  John Allen
                  100
                  2
                  1
                  
               
               
                  A Z Williams
                  160
                  1
                  4
                  1
               
               
                  Washington Young
                  120
                  3
                  
                  
               
               
                  John Benifield
                   
                  1
                  
                  
               
               
                  Henry Burger
                   
                  2
                  4
               
               
                  Ira Allen
                   
                  2
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Archibal Gordon
                   
                  1
                  1
                  
               
               
                  John M Gordon
                   
                  2
                  
                  
               
               
                  W. N. Bennett
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  J. B. Gunning
                  40
                  2
                  2
                  
               
               
                  H A Cotton
                  40
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  John Gunning
                  80
                  1
                  
                  
               
               
                  David Peters
                  80
                  1
                  2
                  
               
               
                  Eliga Grant
                  80
                  2
                  1
                  3
               
            
            
            I do hereby Certify the a bove to be a True list
            Jacob Rice Clerk
            D N 6
            [LIST of INHABITANTS in DISTRICT No. 3]
            November the 24th 1836
            A list of the Inhabitants of the third destrict Congresional Township No 13 Range 7 East entitled To
                    Vote at the meetings thereof with the quantity of land held by each and the number of Children Under
                    21 Years of age annexed To the Names of each person in whose familey they Reside
            
               
                  Names of Voters
                  Acres of Land
                  Under 5 Years
                  Under 14 & n[ot] under 5 Years
                  Under 21 & not under 14 Years
               
               
                  Ephraim Biggs
                  120
                  2
                  3
                  
               
               
                  Philop Colglazier
                  90
                  1
                  3
                  2
               
               
                  Josep Vernon
                   
                   
                  2
                  1
               
               
                  John Glancey
                   
                  2
                  2
                  
               
               
                  Jonathan [Ensley?]
                   
                  1
                  2
                  
               
               
                  Eligah Town
                   
                  1
                  4
                  2
               
               
                  Frances Van Voast
                   
                  3
                  
                  
               
               
                  Jesse Bolton
                   
                  2
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Conrod Knepper
                   
                  2
                  2
                  
               
               
                  Morgan Kennedy
                   
                  2
                  1
                  
               
               
                  Wm Dewit
                   
                  2
                  
                  
               
               
                  George Spitsnoggle
                   
                  1
                  1
                  
               
               
                  J R OCull
                   
                  1
                  2
                  
               
               
                  Mary Ross
                   
                  2
                  1
                  
               
            
            [MEETING of the TRUSTEES]
            At a meeting of the Trustees of Congresional Township 13 North of Range 7 East On the 4th day
                    February 1837
            
               
                  February
                  23rd 1835
                  by B Hodges of O Butler Co[mmissioner]
                  $209 35 1/2
               
               
                  Filed march 2nd
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  February
                  25th 1936
                  by B Hodges of L Morgan Com
                  $2.1,3.1414
                  
               
               
                  Filed march
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Second Teusday in december
                  1836
                  by B Hodges of Thomas 
                                Worland County
                             Collector the poll tax
                  $22.62 1/2
               
               
                  1833 & 34
                   
                  Rents of unsold land
                  $39 43 3/4
               
            
            
               
                  14 Presumably $213.14, although there is no way to check
                    it.
            
            
            
               
                  Amount of Interest Receivd. by Treasurer on money loand by said Treasurer
               
               
                  Nov 1834
                  Rceivd of H S Gatewood & B Kaster
                  $6 12½
               
               
                  Nov 1834
                  Receivd of Joshua Selby
                  25
               
               
                  Dec 1834
                  Receivd of John Whited
                  68
               
               
                  do 1833
                  do of Justice Hubble
                  87½
               
               
                  July 1834
                  do of John Rhoades
                  97
               
               
                  August 1836
                  do of H S Gatewood & B Kaster
                  2 18
               
               
                  May 1836
                  do of Eliott McCombs
                  48½
               
               
                  Nov 25th 1836
                  do of J H Johnson
                  5 02½
               
               
                  Nov 26th 1836
                  do of J. R. O. Cull
                  6 74
               
               
                  January 1837
                  Receivd of Edward Cox
                  $2 93¾
               
               
                  do 1835
                  do of R Camblin
                  26
               
               
                  do 1836
                  do of Jesse Hodges
                  22
               
               
                   
                  do of John Sleeth
                  56
               
               
                   
                  do of A. C. Tullis
                  33
               
               
                  February 1837
                  do of P. C. Gill
                  $7 80
               
               
                  On Glanceys docket J Bolton & P C Gill up to the 21st day of August 1836
                   
                  $27 31
               
               
                  John Kennedy on Glanceys docket
                   
                  18 46
               
               
                  Martin Snow on do do
                   
                  50
               
               
                  A C Tullis amount of Interest
                   
                  4 37½
               
               
                   
                  the amount Total
                  $86 08¼
               
            
            It is ordered that Benjamin Hodges be allowed one dollar & twenty five cents for a blank Book
                    for the use of said Township
            The Bord proceded To Settle with the Treasurer and after a strict examination they found that the
                    Treasurer Benjamin Hodges is Justly Indebted To Town Thirteen Range 7 East, in the just and full Sum
                    of Two hundred and forty three dollars thirty one and one fourth cents
            And We the Bord after examining the Reccords think that Benjamin Hodges Treasurer of Said Township
                    has been Charged with one draft To much To M. C. Vanpelt for one hundred and Eighty eight dollars
                    fifty four cents
            State of Indiana
            
                    
                        Shelby County
                    
                
            February the 4th 1837
            At a meeting of the Trustees of Congresional Township N 13 North of Range 7 East It is hereby
                    ordered, that Louis Morgan School Commishioner of 
                        Shelby County
                     Indiana pay To Benjamin Hodges Treasurer of Congresional Township No thirteen North of
                    Range Seven East the amount of Intrest due Said Township
            A. C. Tullis Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            
            And also the Bord agreed To have a Settlement on the first Saturday in February in each and evry
                    Year.
            A C Tullis Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            TREASURERS BOND [DISTRICT NO. 3]
            [Jesse Bolton, district treasurer, was bonded March 6, 1837, in the amount of $500 for a
                    period of one year beginning October 5, 1836; J. R. O'Cull was guarantor.]
            [MEETING OF THE TRUSTEES]
            At a meeting of the Trustees of Congresional Township 13 Range 7 East in the Town of 
                        Marion
                     on the first day September 1837
            Treasurer Reported the last draft from the School Comissioner of Two hundred & Six dollars
                    and ten cents $206.10 and also a Report of Eleven dollars Sixty five cents
                    $11.65 and also The Treasurer Reported the Receipts
            [Record of Treasurers' Receipts]
            Receivd of Benjamin Hodges Treasurer of Congresional Township No 13 North of Range 7 East the Sum of
                    one hundred & nineteen dollars & fifty cents it being in full for Six months School
                    by L W Lynn at the Franklin School house in destrict No 1 Recvd this 8th day of March 1837
            Balsor Fox D Treasurer
            Recvd of Benjamin Hodges Treasurer of Congressional Township No 13 North of Range 7 East the sum of
                    Ninety four dollars it Being in full for Six months Tuition By Cyrus Wright at the Center School
                    house in destrict No 2 and for a book for the destrict Clerk Recvd this 8th day of March 1837.
            Nymphas Bassett Destrict Treasurer
            Recvd of Benjamin Hodges Treasurer of Congresional Township No 13 North of Range 7 East the sum of
                    forty five dollars it being in full for three months Tuition By John  Sharp at the Jackson School house in destrict No 4 Recvd this 8th day
                    of March 1837
            James Bates destrict Treasurer
            Recvd of Benjamin Hodges Treasurer of Congresional Township No 13 North of Range 7 East the sum of
                    Twenty dollars in part15 for three months Schooling By Jonathan Wilson at the
                    mount Vernon School house in destrict No 3 this 25th day of March 1837
            Jesse Bolton destrict Treasurer
            Receivd of Benjamin Hodges Treasurer of Township No 13 North Range 7 East Ten dollars in part pay for
                    three month tuition in the mount Vernon School house destrict No 3 in said Township Recvd this 4th
                    day of September 1837
            Jesse Bolton destrict Treasurer
            [MEETING OF THE TRUSTEES]
            At a meeting of the Trustees of Township 13 North of range 7 East in the Town of 
                        Marion
                     on 5th day of September 1837
            And after the meeting beeing Called and the [meeting] being brought to order Wm H Sleeth produced his
                    Certificate from the School Commishioner and he being duely Sworn according To law took his Seat
                    a[s] Trustee a fore Said according To law
            And then the Bord proceded To Elect a Treasurer and a Clerk and Jacob Fox Was Elected Treasurer and A
                    C Tullis Was re elected Clerk
            A motion made and Seconded that The present Treasurer Call on the former Treasurer for all moneys
                    papers Book and property in his hands as Such Treasurer
            And also there Was an order made for the Treasurer To draw a draft on the School Commishioner for the
                    Interest due Said Township
            on motion the house adjournd
            A C Tullis Clk
            
               
                  15 The other "in part" receipt which follows probably
                        completes this record.
            
            
            [DISTRICT NO. 8 TRUSTEES APPOINTED]
            State of Indiana 
                        Shelby County
                    
            
            It is ordered by the undersigned that John M Young Frances C Walker and Jacob Kenerly be an[d are]
                    here by appointed destrict trustees in destrict No 8 Congressional Township 13 N of R 7 E for the
                    Term of One Year from and after the fifth day of October 1837 and To continue in office untill there
                    successor are Elected and qualified in to office Given under my hand this 20th day of January 1838
            A. C. Tullis Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            State of Indiana 
                        Shelby County
                    
            
            We John M Young Frances C Walker and Jacob Kenerly trustees of Destrict No 8 Township 13 R 7 E in the
                    County a fore Said do Solemny Swear that We Will faithfully discharge the duties of Trustees of Said
                    destrict To the best of our abilities
            John M Young
            Frances E Walker
            Jacob Kennerly
            Sworn to and Subscribed fore me justice of the peace for 
                        Shelby County
                    
            
            Louis Lea J.P.
            [TREASURER'S BOND DISTRICT NO. 8]
            [Francis C. Walker, district treasurer, was bonded on March 7, 1838, in the amount of $500
                    during his term of office; Jacob Kennerly was guarantor.]
            TREASURER BOND [SHELBYVILLE
               16 DISTRICT]
            [Voorhees Conover, district treasurer, was bonded on September 16, 1837, in the amount of
                    $150 during his term of office; Royal Mayhew was guarantor.]
            [MEETING OF THE TRUSTEES]
            At a meeting of the Bord of Trustees of congresional Township 13 of Range 7 met in the Town of 
                        Marion
                     on the 25th day of December 1837
            
               
                  16 A comparison of the names in this item and those on the 
                            Shelbyville
                         District list on pp. 339–340 suggests that the unnumbered district in
                        this treasurer's bond is probably 
                            Shelbyville
                         District.
            
            
            On the petition of Wm Monroney and others praying for a division of School destrict No 5 in said
                    Township And it appearing that majority of said destrict haveing signed the petition
            It is ordered by the Bord that there be a new School destrict set off Bounded as follows (To Wit)
                    including all that part of said destrict No 5 that lies East of Big Blue River
                    numbered School destrict No Eight
            A C Tullis Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            [DISTRICT NO. 7 TRUSTEES APPOINTED]
            State of Indiana 
                        Shelby County
                     as
            It is here by ordered by the Undersigned that James Young Joses Campbell and Peter Lefever be and is
                    here By appointed subtrustees of destrict No 7 Congresional Township 13 North of Range 7 East for
                    and during the Term of one Year from and after the fifth day of October 1837 and To Continue in
                    office untill there successors are elected and qualified in to office Given under my hand this 6th
                    day of January 1838
            A C Tullis Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            The a bove named Trustees were duely qualified in to office by me this 6th day of January 1838
            A C Tullis Clk
            TREASURERS BOND [DISTRICT NO. 7]
            [James Young, district treasurer, was bonded on February 6, 1838, in the amount of $500
                    for a period of one year beginning October 5, 1837; Joses Campbell and Peter Lefever were
                    guarantors.]
            [DISTRICT NO. 5 VOTES TO SUPPORT SCHOOL]
            At a meeting of the qualified Voters of destrict No five of congresional Township No thirteen North
                    of Range Seven east held at the house of James Montgomery on the fifth day of October 1837
            the following was the decision of said meeting decided To build a school house and like wise To
                    support a school  for the Term of three months during the coming
                    year &c
            Joses Campbell Clk
            D5 T 13 N R 7 E
            pr William Monroney
            [MEETING OF THE TRUSTEES]
            At Meeting of the Bord of Trustees of Congresional Township No 13 of Range Seven east in 
                        Shelby County
                     met at the House of Wm H Sleeth on the 3rd day of March 1838
            Present Jacob Fox Wm H Sleeth and Arthur C. Tullis Trustees of Said Township and after being
                    organized the Bord proceded To business
            It is ordered by the Bord that Jacob Fox Treasurer of Said Township draw from the School Commishioner
                    of 
                        Shelby County
                     all the School funds in his hands due Said Township on the first Monday of March 1838
            A. C. Tullis Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            TREASURER REPORT
            
            On the fifth day of September 1838
            
               
                  The amount drawn from the School Commishioner Sept 1837
                  $131 11
               
               
                  Of Benjamin Hodges former Treasurer
                  136 06¼
               
               
                  Of Jesse Bolton on judgment
                  14 05
               
               
                  Of A. C. Tullis on Note
                  4 78
               
               
                  Of Jesse Bolton on judgment
                  $13 51
               
               
                  the Amount
                  299 51¼
               
               
                  Receivd March 1838 of School Commishioner
                  $205 41
               
               
                   
                  504 92¼
               
            
            Jacob Fox Treasurer
            T 13 N R 7 E
            [MEETING OF THE TRUSTEES]
            At a meting of the Bord of Trustees of Concresional Township No 13 Range 7 E in 
                        Shelby County
                     Met at the house of Hiram Fox in the Town of 
                        Marion
                     on the 5th day of Sept 1838
            
            The following Trustees appeard and took there seats (Viz) A. C. Tullis, Hiram Fox & Jacob
                    Vernon and the said Fox and Vernon produced there Certificates of haveing been Duely Elected and
                    Qualified in To office To fill the vacancy of Jacob Fox and Wm H Sleeth
            September the 5th 1838
            It is ordered by the Bord that Jacob Vernon Treasurer of Congressional Township No 13 North of Range
                    7 East draw from the School Commishioner of 
                        Shelby County
                     all the School funds due Said Township on the first day of September 1838
            A. C. Tullis, Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            a Vote being Taken and Jacob Vernon was Chosen Treasurer of Said Township and A. C. Tullis continued
                    Clerk
            And the Bord adjournd
            A C Tullis Clk
            [MEETING OF THE TRUSTEES]
            March the 4th 1839
            At a meeting of the Bord of Trustees of congresional Township 13 Range 7 East in 
                        Shelby County
                     I'n'a
            It is ordered By the Bord that Jacob Vernon Treasurer of Township 13 Range 7 East draw from the
                    School Commishioner of 
                        Shelby County
                     Indiana all the money on hand due Said township up to this date this fourth day of
                    March 1839
            A C Tullis Clk
            And the Bord adjournd
            A C Tullis Clk
            [MEETING OF THE TRUSTEES]
            At a meeting of the Bord of Trustees of Congresional Township 13 Range 7 East in 
                        Shelby County
                     Indiana Met at the house of Doctor Cull in 
                        Marion
                     on the 7th day of March 1839
            A petition precented by Wm H Sleeth and others praying a division in Destrict No 3 so as To attach
                    the South half of the said destrict to No Two and the north half To destrict  No 1 so as make the Roade the line Runing East and West throug 
                        Marion
                     the line and a Vote being Taken and the Bord was Unanimous in favor of the Division
            And the Meeting adjournd
            A C Tullis Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            [DISTRICT NO. 1 TRUSTEE APPOINTED]
            State of Indiana 
                        Shelby County
                    
            
            It is ordered that Robert H Ormsbee be appointed Sub Trustee in School destrict No 1 To fill the
                    Vacancy of Bolsor Fox late Sub trustee of said destrict this 15 day of June 1839
            A C Tullis Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            State of Indiana 
                        Shelby County
                    
            
            Personally appeared the a bove named R H Ormsbee Who being duely Sworn according To law by me this
                    15th. day of June 1839
            A. C. Tullis Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            [TREASURER'S BOND DISTRICT NO. 1]
            [Robert H. Ormsbee, district treasurer, was bonded on June 15, 1839, in the amount of $500
                    for a period of one year beginning June 5 (15?), 1839; Ephraim Biggs was guarantor.]
            [MEETING OF THE TRUSTEES]
            at a meeting of the Trustees of Congresional Township 13 Range 7 East in 
                        Shelby County
                     Indiana in the Town of 
                        Marion
                     on the 12th day of march 1838 present Wm H Sleeth Jacob Fox and A. C. Tullis and the
                    house proceded To business
            A petition precented by Jacob Kennerly and others praying for an alteration in destrict No 6 and No 8
                    to strike of[f] from Destrict No 6 the west half of the South west quarter of Section 34 T 13 R 7
                    East and the west half of the South west quarter of Section 27 T 13 R 7 E and the west half of the
                    north west quarter of the same Section
            It is ordered by the Bord that the a bove petition is acted on and the alteration is according to the
                    petion
            A. C. Tullis Clk
            
            [MEETING OF THE TRUSTEES]
            At a meeting of the Trustees of congresional Township No 13 of Range 7 met in the Town of 
                        Marion
                     on the fourth day of August 1838
            On the petition of Apolis Kinsley and Others praying for an alteration in Destrict No 2 and destrict
                    No 7 and it appearing To the Bord that a majority of Both Destricts having Signed the petition It is
                    ordered By the Bord that the following part of Destrict No Two be attached To destrict N 7 (To Wit)
                    Comencing at the South west corner of Section Nineteen thence North one half mile thence due east
                    Till the line Strikes Blue River thence down the River Till it Strikes the line
                    dividing Said Destricts
            The Bord adjourned
            A. C. Tullis Clk
            [MEETING OF THE TRUSTEES]
            February the 8th 1840
            At a meting of the bord of Township Trustees in Town 13 Range 7 East at the house of Hiram Fox in the
                    Town of 
                        Marion
                     pressent Hiram Fox and A C Tullis17
            
            [APPOINTMENT OF DISTRICT TRUSTEES]
            State of Indiana 
                        Shelby County
                    
            
            It is ordered that Apollis Kinsley be appointed Destrict Trustee in Destrict N 5 in Town 13 Range 7
                    east to fill the Vacancy of James Young former Trustee Which Was removed from office by the majority
                    of Said Destrict on the 22nd day of August 1839
            Given under my hand this 23rd. day of August 1839
            A C Tullis Clk
            State of Indiana 
                        Shelby County
                    
            
            personaley appeard the a bove Named A Kinsley Who being Duely sworn by me according To law this 23rd
                    day of August 1839
            State of Indiana 
                        Shelby County
                     s
            It is here by ordered by the under Signed that Samuel Copple Wm Montgomery and Edward Cox be and is
                    here by appointed destrict Trustees in destrict No 4 in Town 13 Range 7 East untill there Successors
                        
                  
                     17 There follows a blank half page.
               
                     elected and qualified in To office this 14th day of Nov 1839
            A. C. Tullis Clerk
            State of Indiana 
                        Shelby County
                    
            
            personaley apeard the a bove named trustees and being duely Sworn To the a bove according To law by
                    me
            A. C. Tullis Clk
            State of Indiana 
                        Shelby County
                    
            
            It is ordered by the under Signed that Calob Sleeth be appointed destrict Trustee in destrict N 4
                    Congressional Township 13 Rang 7 east for and during the Term of one Year from and after the 5th day
                    of October 1840 and continue in office Till his successor is qualified
            Given under my hand this 1st of March 1841
            A. C. Tullis Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            State of Indiana 
                        Shelby County
                    
            
            Personaley appeared the within named [Caleb Sleeth] before m[e] A C Tullis Clerk and Took the
                    nessessary oath and subscribd his name this 1st day of March
            [MEETING OF THE TRUSTEES]
            At a meeting of the Trustees of Congressional Township 13 Nor of Range 7 E held at 
                        Marion
                     in Said Township on the 8th day of March 1841 It was ordered by said board of Trustees
                    that Jacob Vernon one of Said Trustees s[h]all attend a Sale (at the Court house door in the Town of 
                        Shelbyville
                     on the 9th March 1841 of the lands of Robert Phares To be Sold by the School
                    Commishioner of 
                        Shelby County
                     for non payment of monies borrowed belonging To Said Township on morgage18 And bid of Said land in the name of Said Township provided it does not Sell for money
                    Sufficient To pay the amount of Morgages with Interest and all Costs and charges &c
            
               
                  18 Robert Phares was not the only delinquent borrower from the local
                        Congressional Township Fund as is indicated on the pages immediately following. The
                            Revised Statutes of the State of Indiana, Adopted and Enacted by the General Assembly at
                            their Twenty-Second Session … [1837–1838] (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1838), 522–525; and The Revised Statutes of the State of
                            Indiana, Passed at the Twenty-Seventh Session of the General Assembly …
                        [1842–1843] (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1843), 253–255, are helpful in explaining the terms for lending money
                        from the Congressional Township Fund.
            
            
            Given under our hands this 8th of March 1841
            A C Tullis
            Hiram Fox Trustees
            Jacob Vernon T 13 N R 7 E
            [MEETING OF THE TRUSTEES]
            At a meeting of the Trustees of School Township No 13 of Range 7 met at the House of Hiram Fox in the
                    Town of 
                        Marion
                     on Monday 21st. day of February 1842. Jacob Fox Appeared and prodused an appointment
                    from John Weakly School Commitioner of 
                        Shelby County
                     as Trustee of said Township To fill the vacancy of A C Tullis Resigned
            The Trustees proceded to Business There apon the board appointed Hiram Fox Clerk of Said Board
            It is ordered by the Board that Jacob Vernon Treasurer of Congressional Township No. 13 of Range 7
                    draw from the school Commitioner of 
                        Shelby County
                     Indiana all the money in his hands due said Township up to this date This 21st. day of
                    February 1842
            Hiram Fox Clerk
            The Board Ajourned sine di
            [MEETING OF THE TRUSTEES]
            At a meeting of the Trustees of Congressional Township No 13 North Range 7 East met at the office of
                    Wm. Hacker Esqr in the Town of 
                        Shelbyville
                     on the 14th. of November 1842 the following Gentlemen appeared and produced there
                    appointments from John Weakly school commitioner of 
                        Shelby County
                     Ia to fill the vacancies as Trustees of said Township occasioned by the Expiration of
                    the term of servises of Jacob Fox and Hiram Fox Viz, Wm Hacker and James R OCull
            The Trustees then proceded to business Where upon the Board appointed James R OCull Clerk and Jacob
                    Vernon Treasuer of sd Board
            The Board Then maid an order authoriseing Wm Hacker to attend the sales of any land offered by the
                    commitioner of 
                        Shelby County
                     for Moneys borrowed and belonging To said Township and bid for the same amount not
                    excedeing such debt Interest cost and per centum should no other person bid
            The board then ajourned sina di
            James R OCull Clerk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            
            At a meting of the Trustees of School Congressional Township No 13 N. of Range 7 E. held at the
                    office of William Hacker on the 14th. day of November 1842 It is orderd by said board of Trustees
                    that William Hacker one of said Trustees shall attend the sale of any land offerd by the school
                    Commissioners of 
                        Shelby County
                     for non payment of money boorowed of and belonging to said Township and bid for the
                    same an amount not exceeding the aggregate of such debt Interest Costs and per centum should no
                    other person bid an amount equal to such aggregate
            November 14th. 1842
            James R OCull Clerk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            TREASUERS BOND DST NO 5
            [Joseph Belliss, district treasurer, was bonded on February 10, 1843, in the amount of
                    $150 during his term of office; Mark Williams was guarantor.]
            ORDER FOR ELECTION [OF TOWNSHIP TRUSTEES]
            August 5th. 1843
            At a meeting of the Trustees of Congressional Township No 13 Noth of Range 7 East It is here by
                    ordered that there be an Election held In the town of 
                        Marion
                     on the 26th. day of August 1843 (it being the time prescribed by the school laws of
                    Indiana) for the purpose of Electing three Township Trustees to fill the vacancies occasioned by the
                    expiration of the term of servissis of Jacob Vernon Wm. Hacker & James R OCull
            James R OCull Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            [MEETING OF THE TRUSTEES]
            At a meeting of the Trustees of Congressional No. 13 N of Range 7 East On the 5th. day of September
                    1843 Wm Hacker Jacob Vernon and James R OCull being present
            It is ordered by the Board that Jacob Vernon Be Allowd Two Dollars and 82 cts out of the scool funds
                    of said Township for servissis Rendered as Treasurer of Town 13 N of Range 7 East
            
            It is ordered that Jacob Vernon Treasurer of Congressional Township No 13 N of Range 7 E draw from
                    the school Commitioner of 
                        Shelby County
                     Ia the amount of Intereset due said Congressional Township
            Wm. Hacker
            Jacob Vernon [Trustees]
            September 5 1843
            At a meeting of the Trustees of Congressional Township No. 13 N of Range 7 East Whare upon S D Ludlow
                    and James R OCull Appeared and produced there surtificates from John Weakley school Commitioner of 
                        Shelby County
                     Indiana of there Election as Trustees of said Township with the certificate of the oath
                    of office endorced on the back ther of By John Weakley school commitioner of sd. County Also a
                    certificate of Wm. Mongomery's election he not being present
            Where upon said Trustees Appointed James R OCull Clerk of said Township and Stephen D Ludlow
                    Treasurer
            The Board then adjourned sinadi
            James R OCull Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            [MEETING OF THE TRUSTEES]
            September 7th. 1843
            At a meeting of the Trustees of Congressional Township No 13 N of Range 7 East Wm Montgomery appeared
                    & produced the certificate of the oath of office Endorsed By Jesse Bolton Esqr for 
                        Shelby County
                     Indiana
            The Board then Adjourned sinadi
            James R OCull Crk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            [APPOINTMENT OF DISTRICT TRUSTEES]
            State of Indiana 
                        Shelby County
                    
            
            It is hereby ordered by the undersigned ss Clerk of Congressinol Township No 13 N of Range 7 East
                    that Ruben Deboard be and the same is hereby appointed Destrict Trustee in Destrict No 2 T 13 N R 7
                    Eas for and during the Term of one Year from and after the first saturday in October 1843 and untill
                    his successors is qualified into office Given under my hand this 10th. of November 1843
            James R OCull Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            
            State of Indiana 
                        Shelby County
                    
            
            It is hereby ordered by the undersigned ss Clerk of Congressinal Township No 13 N of R 7 E That Wm
                    Bollabaugh be & the same is hereby appointed Destrict Trustee in Destrict No 2 Congressinol
                    T 13 N of R 7 East for and during The Term of One Year from and after the 1st Saturday in October
                    1843 and untill his successor is qualified into office Given under my hand this 10th. of Nov. 1843
            James R OCull Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            State of Indiana 
                        Shelby County
                    
            
            It is hereby ordered by the uner signed ss Clerk of Congressinal Township 13 North of Range 7 East
                    that James Mcbride Mathew B Golding and James Baites be and the same is here appointed Destrict
                    Trustees in the south East part of Destrict No 4 Congressinal Township 13 N of Range 7 East for and
                    during the Term of one year from and after the 1st. saturday of October 1843 and untill there
                    successors are qualified in to office Given under my hand this 11th. of Decembr 1843
            James R OCull Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            ELECTION RETURNS DEST. NO. 1
            It appears from a certificate with me Filed that there was an Election held in District No. 1 On the
                    7th. of October 1843 for the purpose of Electing Destrict Trustees for said District it was as
                    Follows
            State of Indiana 
                        Shelby County
                    
            
            We the undersigned Judges and Clerks ss of the fore going Election Do certify that for the office of
                    Trustees
            Robert H Ormsbee Received five votes
            Wm. H Sleeth Received five votes
            Balsor Fox received five votes
            Given under our hands this 7th. of October 1843
            Robert H Ormsbee
            Balsor Fox Judges
            Gelon J [I?] Hodges
            Jacob Fox
            Wm H Sleeth Clks
            James R OCull Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            
            ATTACHED A PART OF THE 6TH. TO THE 8TH. DESTRICT
                        CONGRESSIAL TOWNSHIP NO 13 N OF R 7 E
            At a meeting of the Trustees of Congressinal Township No 13 N of Range 7 East Met in the Town of 
                        Marion
                     on the 25th. of Decemb'r 1843 When the following petition was presented (viz)
                    to attach a part of the 6th. Destrict to the 8th. Destrict of said Congressinal Township (To wit)
            The East half of the South West quarter and the North West quarter of Section 34 And the East half of
                    the South West quarter And the West half of the South East quarter of Section 27 And the North West
                    quarter and the West half of the North East quarter of the same section It is therefore Ordered by
                    the board of Trustees of said Congressinal Township that the above named Petition be granted and
                    that the above named part of the 6th. Destrict be and the same is hereby attached to the 8th.
                    District in said Township
            The Board then adjourned
            James R OCull Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            December 25 1843
            ELECTION SHELBYVILLE DISTRICT
            
            It appears from a certificate with me filed that there was an election held in the shelbyville
                        District19 for the purpose of electing Destrict Trustees for said Dist
                    Making David Montgomery duely elected Trustee of 
                        Shelbyville
                     District for the term of three Years and Nathan Goodrich for the term of two years and
                    Marshall Stoddard for the term of one year
            Election held on the first saturday of October 1843
            Elbridge Mayhew Inspector
            James R OCull Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            1844 REPORT FROM DESTRICT NO 1
            [Number of scholars]
            A list of the number of scholars betwen the age of Five and Twenty one, in Destrict No. One in School
                    Township No. 13 North of Range 7 East
            
               
                  19 Only a part of the town of 
                            Shelbyville
                         was in Township 13; the rest—and probably the larger part—was
                        in Congressional Township 12.
            
            
            
               
                  Jacob Winton
                  no 5
               
               
                  Charles Sweet
                  no 4
               
               
                  John Sleeth
                  no 1
               
               
                  John Rhodes
                  no 5
               
               
                  Balsor Rhodes
                  no 5
               
               
                  Benjamin Kaster
                  no 7
               
               
                  Jaob Fox
                  no 5
               
               
                  W H Sleeth
                  no 5
               
               
                  Balsor Fox
                  no 4
               
               
                  Jane Hodges
                  no 3
               
               
                  J F Rule
                  no 3
               
               
                  J R OCull
                  no 2
               
               
                  F Van Voast
                  no 3
               
               
                  Al[e]xBurtch
                  no 5
               
               
                  S D Ludlow
                  [No.] 1
               
               
                  Ephraim Biggs
                  [No.] 6
               
               
                  Saml Bailey
                  [No.] 4
               
               
                  Robert Badger
                  [No.] 1
               
               
                  Joseph Vernon
                  [No.] 1
               
               
                  James Whited
                  6
               
               
                  Wm. Kaster
                  1
               
               
                  John Whit[ed?]
                  4
               
               
                  R H Ormsbee
                  3
               
               
                  Saml Bassett
                  1
               
               
                  Sarah Oldham
                  2
               
               
                  Wm. M[W?] adding
                  1
               
               
                  Total No. of scholars
                  88
               
            
            I certify the above to be true list of Scholars in the above named destrict Given under my hand this
                    2nd.
            February 1844
            Wm. H Sleeth Destrict Trustee
            James R OCull Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            List of voters
            A list of the voters names in Destrict No. One in school Township No. Thirteen North of Range 7 E in 
                        Shelby County
                     Indiana To wit
            
               
                  1
                  Jacob Winton
               
               
                  2
                  John Cook
               
               
                  3
                  Charles Sweet
               
               
                  4
                  John Sleeth sr
               
               
                  5
                  John Rhodes
               
               
                  6
                  Adam Rhodes
               
               
                  7
                  Balsor Rhodes
               
               
                  8
                  Ephraim Rhodes
               
               
                  9
                  Benjamin Kaster
               
               
                  10
                  Jacob Fox
               
               
                  11
                  A R Sleeth
               
               
                  12
                  W H Sleeth
               
               
                  13
                  Balsor Fox
               
               
                  14
                  Clark Fox
               
               
                  15
                  Gelon J [I?] Hodges
               
               
                  16
                  James F Rule
               
               
                  17
                  James R OCull
               
               
                  18
                  J R Miner
               
               
                  19
                  James Dailey
               
               
                  20
                  Francis Van Voast
               
               
                  21
                  Alexander Burtch
               
               
                  22
                  Stephen D Ludlow
               
               
                  23
                  David Kersey
               
               
                  24
                  Leander Kennedy
               
               
                  25
                  Ephraim Biggs
               
               
                  26
                  Samuel Bailey
               
               
                  27
                  Robert Badger
               
               
                  28
                  Joseph Vernon
               
               
                  29
                  Wm. Kaster
               
               
                  30
                  Benjamin Kaster Jr
               
               
                  31st.
                  James Whited
               
               
                  32
                  John Whited
               
               
                  33
                  Robert H Ormsbee
               
               
                  34
                  Lucius W[M?] Ormsbee
               
               
                  35
                  Zeno Fox
               
               
                  36
                  Samuel Bassett
               
               
                  37
                  Wm. Oldham
               
               
                  38
                  Martin Rhodes
               
               
                  39
                  Wm. W[M?] adding
               
            
            
            State of Indiana 
                        Shelby county
                     ss.
            I certify the above to be a true list of the voters in the above named Destrict
            Givenen under my [hand] this 25th. January 1844
            W H Sleeth Clerk
            REPORT OP DESTRICT NO. 2 YEAR 1844
            [Number of scholars]
            A list of the number of Scholars betwen the age of Five and Twenty one years old in Destrict No. 2
                    School Township No. 13 North of Range 7 E (To wit)
            
               
                  Spencer Thayer
                  4
               
               
                  Wm. Bollabaugh
                  3
               
               
                  Ruben Deboard
                  5
               
               
                  Ralph Sleeth
                  1
               
               
                  Peter Unger
                  2
               
               
                  Mathew Milton
                  4
               
               
                  Peter Walter
                  3
               
               
                  Peter Yarlan
                  3
               
               
                  David Colglazier
                  6
               
               
                  Michael Bilman
                  2
               
               
                  Lucy Davis
                  1
               
               
                  Mary Fisher
                  4
               
               
                  Caleb Sleeth
                  1
               
               
                  John M Kennedy
                  1
               
               
                  Hardy Ray
                  1
               
               
                  Mary Robbins
                  3
               
               
                  Nancy Davis
                  3
               
               
                  Benjamin Davis
                  2
               
               
                  Charles Jonson
                  4
               
               
                  Henry Hinds
                  4
               
               
                  Jacob Hinds
                  1
               
               
                  Nyphes Bassett
                  5
               
               
                  Bernard Bassett
                  5
               
               
                  Jonah Bassett
                  1
               
               
                  Silvester Bassett
                  1
               
               
                  Isaac Wilson
                  1
               
               
                  Thos. Mclaughlin
                  6
               
               
                  Hiram Fox
                  3
               
               
                  John Gorrell
                  1
               
               
                  Jesse Bolton
                  4
               
               
                  Melinda Thrasher
                  4
               
               
                  Thos Pollock
                  1
               
               
                  Total No. of Scholars
                  90
               
            
            I certify the above to be a true list of the number of Scholars in the above Destrict Given under my
                    hand this 5th. of February 1844
            Ruben Deboard Destrict Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            
            [List of legal voters]20
            
            
               
                  1
                  Spencer Thayer
               
               
                  2
                  Wm. Bollabaugh
               
               
                  3
                  Ruben Deboard
               
               
                  4
                  Ralph Sleeth
               
               
                  5
                  Peter Unger
               
               
                  6
                  Mathew Milton
               
               
                  7
                  Peter Walter
               
               
                  8
                  Peter Yarlin
               
               
                  9
                  David Colcazier [Colglazier]
               
               
                  10
                  Michael Bilman
               
               
                  11
                  Hardy Ray
               
               
                  12
                  Benj Davis
               
               
                  13
                  Charles Jonson
               
               
                  14
                  Henry Hinds
               
               
                  15
                  Jacob Hinds
               
               
                  16
                  Nymphes Bassett [Sr.]
               
               
                  17
                  Bernard Bassett
               
               
                  18
                  Jonah Bassett
               
               
                  19
                  Sylvester Bassett
               
               
                  20
                  Isaac Wilson
               
               
                  21
                  Thos. Mclaughlin
               
               
                  22
                  Hiram Fox
               
               
                  23
                  John Gorrel
               
               
                  24
                  Jesse Bolton
               
               
                  25
                  Thos. Pollock
               
               
                  26
                  Peter Edmand [Edmonds]
               
               
                  27
                  Joseph Johnson
               
               
                  28
                  Elisha Johnson
               
               
                  29
                  Caleb Jonson [Johnson]
               
               
                  30
                  Nymphes Bassett [Jr.]
               
               
                  31
                  Michael Hinds
               
               
                  32
                  Greenberry Davis
               
               
                  33
                  Merideth Thrasher
               
               
                  34
                  Nelson Wilson
               
               
                  35
                  Jacob Bowers
               
               
                  36
                  Wm Cook
               
            
            I cetify the above to be atrue list of Number of legal voter in Destric No. 2 T 13 R 7 East
            Ruben Deboard Clk
            REPORT OF SHELBYVILLE DESTRICT
            
            Mr. J R OCull Clerk of Cong Township No 13 in 
                        Shelby County
                     Ia Sir the undersigned Clerk of the Shelbyville School Destrict composed in part by
                    said Township would respecfully Represent the following list to be a true and correct statement of
                    Voters and Children residing in said Destrict on the 7th. of February 1844 as made out by Martial
                    Stoddard of the Trustees
            
               
                  20 A second listing of these names appearing on the same page of the
                        minute book has been omitted. Wherever there is significant difference in spelling or
                        identification, the variation on the omitted list is included in brackets here.
            
            
            
               
                   
                  No. of Voters
                  No. of Scholars
               
               
                  Vooras Conover
                  1
                  2
               
               
                  Wm. Hacker
                  1
                   
               
               
                  Martial Stoddard
                  1
                  3
               
               
                  N E[arliwine?]
                  1
                  1
               
               
                  Henry Irishs
                  1
                  4
               
               
                  Smith Wingate
                  1
                  6
               
               
                  Stephan Major
                  1
                  2
               
               
                  Jacob Vernon
                  1
                  3
               
               
                  Mrssrs. Morris
                   
                  3
               
               
                  John Cambell
                  1
                  1
               
               
                  H[W?]oodvill Brownig
                  1
                  3
               
               
                  William Wood
                  1
                  1
               
               
                  Thos. W Edmonds
                  1
                  2
               
               
                  Nathaniel Teel
                  1
                  4
               
               
                  Wm. Little
                  1
                  2
               
               
                  S D Day
                  1
                  1
               
               
                   
                  15
                  38
               
               
                  Royal Mayhew
                  1
                  5
               
               
                  John Morrison
                  1
                  3
               
               
                  Wm. Davidson
                  1
                  1
               
               
                  D S[L?] West
                  1
                  1
               
               
                  James Blake
                  1
                  2
               
               
                  Saml. Elliott
                  1
                   
               
               
                  James G Elliott
                  1
                  4
               
               
                  Wm. Thrasher
                  1
                  5
               
               
                  Elbridg G Mayhew
                  1
                  4
               
               
                  Amos Sparkes
                  1
                  1
               
               
                  Susannah M[W?]orland
                   
                  3
               
               
                  Wm. Davidson
                  1
                  1
               
               
                  Jane Arnot
                   
                  3
               
               
                  John W Clinger
                  1
                  1
               
               
                  Peter Lafferty
                  1
                  3
               
               
                  Jacob Rice
                  1
                  2
               
               
                  Abron Kelsey
                  1
                   
               
               
                  W W MCcoy
                  1
                   
                   
               
               
                   
                  31
                  78
               
            
            Makeing in all Thirty one voters & seventy eight children betwen the age of 5 and 21 years of
                    Age
            Elbridge Mayhew Clk
            REPORT OF [NORTH PART OF] DESTRICT NO. 4
            A list of scholars over Five and under Twenty One years of age in Destrict No. 4 in Township 13 Range
                    7 East taken on the 1st day of February 1844
            Names of Householder & No. of Scholars
            
               
                  Wm. MCKinsey
                  3
               
               
                  An Hedly
                  3
               
               
                  Caleb Sleeth
                  5
               
               
                  Thomas G M Sally
                  6
               
               
                  William Montgomery
                  4
               
               
                  Beten Rhodes
                  5
               
               
                  Samuel Copple
                  4
               
               
                  John Hall
                  1
               
               
                  Cornelias Cook
                  4
               
               
                  Sinclar Cox
                  1
               
               
                  Adward Cox
                  4
               
               
                  David Fields
                  4
               
               
                   
                  44
               
            
            
            I do hereby certify that the above is a true list as taken by me this the 1st. day of February 1844
            Caleb Sleeth Dest Clk
            Recorded per J R OCull Clk
            T 18 N R 7 E
            REPORT OF DESTRICT NO 5
            School Destrict No. Five Congressional Township No 13 North of Range 7 East in 
                        Shelby County
                     Indiana
            The Following is the number of Voters, and also the number of Scholars over five and under Twenty one
                    in Said Destrict prior to the first Monday of February in 1844 as taken in 44
            
               
                   
                  Voters
                  Scholars
               
               
                  Morgan Kenndy
                  1
                  3
               
               
                  James Monroney
                  1
                  5
               
               
                  Silvester Monroney
                  1
                  2
               
               
                  William Monroney
                  1
                  2
               
               
                  Joseph Belles
                  1
                  4
               
               
                  Mark Williams
                  1
                  6
               
               
                  James H Jonson
                  1
                  6
               
               
                  Andrew Flowers
                  1
                  6
               
               
                  Nicholas Bellis
                  1
                  3
               
               
                  Martha James
                   
                  2
               
               
                  Samuel Tway
                  1
                  4
               
               
                  Ezra MCabe
                  1
                  1
               
               
                  James Young
                  1
                  3
               
               
                  Apollis Kinsley
                  1
                  5
               
               
                  Wm Dobbins
                  1
                  2
               
               
                  Hugh Dobbins
                  1
                  1
               
               
                  Peter Lefever
                  1
                  4
               
               
                  John Tway sr
                  1
                  1
               
               
                  William Badger
                  1
                  1
               
               
                  James Carney
                  1
                  3
               
               
                  David Beard
                  1
                  2
               
               
                  Spicy Lee
                   
                  2
               
               
                  Henry Strever
                  1
                  1
               
               
                  Thomas Pollock
                  1
                  1
               
               
                   
                   
                  72
               
            
            The following named persons are Voters at our County Elections the names to which H h is anexed are
                    House holders
            
               
                  James W Walis
                  1
               
               
                  Wm. M. Cummings
                  1
               
               
                  Thomas James
                  1
               
               
                  John MCabe
                  1
               
               
                  Silvester Town H h
                  1
               
               
                  John Tway
                  1
               
               
                  Sanford Tway
                  1
               
               
                  Ambroes Tway
                  1
               
               
                  Wm. Alexander
                  1
               
               
                  Seal Cmpbell H h
                  1
               
               
                  Robert Steel H h
                  1
               
               
                  Nicholas James
                  1
               
            
            
            I hereby certify the above to be a correct Return of the Inhabtants of the above School Destrict
                    according to the best of my Knowledge
            William Monroney Clk
            5 Destrict C T 13 N R 7 E
            MEETING OF BOARD [OF TRUSTEES]
                        29TH. FEBRY 1844
            State of Indiana
            
               
                        Shelby County
                     ss
            At a meting of the Trustees of Congressional Township No 13 N of Range 7 East met in the Town of 
                        Marion
                     at the store of S D Ludlow on the 29th. of February 1844
            It is ordered by the board of Trustees of said Township that S D Ludlow Treasurer of said Township
                    Draw on the County Treasurer and School Commitioner of 
                        Shelby County
                     for all the School funds due the said Township on the first Monday in March 1844
                    ariseing from the surplus Revanew and common school funds
            James R OCull Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            [APPOINTMENT OF DISTRICT TRUSTEES]
            State of Indiana
            
               
                        Shelby County
                     ss
            It is hereby ordered by the undersi[g]ned Clerk of School Destrict [Township?] No. 13 N of R 7 East
                    that Apollos Kinsley Wm. Monroney and Mark Williams be and the same is appointed Destrict Trustees
                    in Destrict No. 5 for and dur[ing] the year 1844
            James R OCull Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            State of Indiana
            
               
                        Shelby County
                     ss
            It is hereby ordered by the undersigned Clerk of School Township No. 13 R 7 East that Isaac H Wilson
                    be and is appointed Destrict Trustee in Destrict No. 2 To fill the vacancy of Nympes Bassett, sr,
                    Resigned for the Year 1844 and untill his successor is qualified into office this 4th. of March 1844
            James R OCull Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            
            TREASURES BOND DEST No. 1
            [Robert H. Ormsbee, district treasurer, was bonded on March 11, 1844, in the amount of
                    $100 during his term of office; Wm. H. Sleeth was guarantor.]
            [DISTRICT NO. 6 TRUSTEE APPOINTED]
            State of Indian [a]
            
               
                        Shelby County
                     ∗∗ss
            It is hereby ordered by the undersigned Clerk of school Township No. 13 N of R 7 E that H T Gaines be
                    and is hereby appointed Destrict Trustee in Destrict No. 6 To fill the vacancy of Jacob Rice Removed
                    to continue in office from the date of his appointmen untill his successor is qualified into office
                    March 11th. 1844
            James R OCull Ck
            T 13 N R 7 E
            TREASURES BOND DESTRICT NO. 2
            [Isaac W. Wilson, district treasurer, was bonded on March 4, 1844, in the amount of $120
                    during his term of office; William Bollabaugh was guarantor.]
            TREASURERS BOND, SHELBYVILLE
                        DEST
            
            [David Montgomery, district treasurer, was bonded on February 7, 1844, in the amount of
                    $100 during his term of office; Apollis Kinsley was guarantor.]
            TRES BOND DESTRICT NO. 5
            [Apollis Kinsley, district treasurer, was bonded on March 11, 1844, in the amount of $120
                    during his term of office; Adam Rhoads was guarantor.]
            [DISTRIBUTION OF SCHOOL FUNDS]
            State of 
                        India
                    [na]
            
                    
                        Shelby County
                    
                
            At a meeting of the Trustees of Congressional Township No. 13 N of Range 7 East met in the Town of 
                        Marion
                     in Febry. 1844
            
            It was ordered by the Board that S. D. Ludlow Treasurer of said Township draw on the County Auditor
                    for a warrent on the school commitioner for the common school funds and surplus revanue due said
                    Township at the March Distribution of 1845
            James R OCull, clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            List of the No. of Destricts
            entitled to draw March 1844
            A List the No. of Destricts in Congressional Township No. 13 N of Range 7 East at the March
                    Distribution day Viz
            
               
                  Destrict No. 1 88 Scholars at 21 cts. Each
                  $18 48
               
               
                  " No. 2 90 Scholars at 21 cts. Each
                  18 90
               
               
                  North part of Destrict No. 4 44 scholars at 21 cts.
                  9 44
               
               
                  
                     
                                Shelbyville
                             Destrict 78 Scholr. [at] 21 cts.
                  16 38
               
               
                  Dest No. 5 72 scholr. [at] 21 cts
                  15 12
               
            
            List of Destricts Not Reported in time according to Law therefore not entitled to draw at the March
                    Distribution
            South part Dest. No. 4
            Dest No. 6
            Do No. 8
            [DISTRICT WARRANTS FOR SCHOOL
                        FUNDS]21
            
            Warrante from dist No 1
            State of Indiana
            
               
                        Shelby County
                     ss
            Congresional Township thirteen Range Seven School Dist No one It is ordered by the Trustee that the
                    Treasarer of Said district draw on the township Treasurer for all the funds 
                  
                     21 Apparently, before a district could receive its semi-annual share
                            of the surplus revenue and other school funds in the township treasury, the number of school
                            children in that district must have been reported to the township trustees. The district
                            trustees then ordered that the township clerk give the district treasurer an order on the
                            township treasurer for the proportion of the school funds to which that district was
                            entitled under the formula in effect at the time of distribution; these district orders or
                            warrants were usually prepared by the district clerks. The warrants of three districts do
                            not appear in this series because those districts had not reported their numbers of scholars
                            in time; by the September, 1844, semi-annual distribution all had apparently reported and
                            all issued warrants. Because of limited space, beginning with the September, 1844,
                            distribution (p. 347), the texts of the warrants are omitted and only the distribution date
                            and the numbers or names of districts are noted.
               
                     due Said district in the hands of the Township treasurer after
                    The first Monday of March 1844 Feby 19th 1844
            Wm. H. Sleath district Clerk
            James R OCull Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            Warante from Dist No 2
            State of Indiana
            
                    
                        Shelby County
                    
                
            Congresional Township thirteen Range Sevn East School District No 2
            It is ordered by the Trustees that the Treasurer of Said district draw on the Township Treasurer for
                    all the funds due Said Destrict in the hands of the Township Treasurer after the First Monday in
                    March 1844
            March 11th 1844
            Reuben Debord Clk
            James R OCull Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            Warrante from Shelby Ville District
            Mr Ludlow Treasurer of Congressional Township No 13 
                        Shelby County
                     Ind
            This is to Certify that David Montgomery is duly Elected Treasurer of the Shelbyville School district
                    Composed in part of Said Township You will therefore please pay to him the amount of Money on hand
                    Belonging to Said district March 10th 1844
            Elbridge G Mayhew Clk
            Shelbyville School district
            James R OCull Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            Warrant [from North Part of] Destrict No. 4
            The Clerk of Congressional Township Thirteen North of Range seven East in 
                        Shelby County
                     Indiana will give or Grant a warrant To William Montgomery Destrict Treasurer of
                    Destrict No. 4 in the above named Township on the Treasurer of the afore said Township for the
                    Distributive Share of the Surplus Revanue and school funds that is coming to the fourth Destrict
                    March 11th. 1844
            Caleb Sleeth Clk
            4th. Dest T 13 N R 7 E
            
            By order of the board of Destrict Trustees of Destrict No. Township 13 N of Range 7 E Made on the
                    11th. March 1844
            Caleb Sleeth Clk
            Best 4 T 13 N R 7 E
            Warrant from Dist No 5
            The Clerk of Congressional Township thirteen north of Range 7 east (in 
                        Shelby County
                     Indian [a]) will give or grant awarrant to Apollos Kinsley Destrict Treasurer of
                    Destrict No. 5 in the above named Township on the Treasurer of the aforesaid Township, for the
                    distributive share of the surplus revenue and school funds that is coming to the 5th. Destrict March
                    9th. 1844
            William Monroney Clk
            5th. Dist C T 13 N R 7 E
            By order of the board of District trustees of District No. 5 C Township 13 N R 7 E
            Made on the 9th. of March 1844
            William Monroney Clk
            5th. Destrict C T 13 N R 7 E
            J R OCull Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            MEETING OF THE BOARD [OF TRUSTEES] 1844
            At a meeting of the board of Trustees of Congressional Township No. 13 N of Range 7 East met at the
                    Store of S D Ludlows on the 1th. of March 1844
            It is ordered by the Board that James R OCull Clerk of said school Township be allowed Four Dollars
                    as acting Clerk from the time of his Appointment untill the 11th. of March 1844
            It is further ordered that S D Ludlow be allowd. Two Dollars and 25 Cents for survisses Rendered as
                    Treasurer of said Township up to the date of March 11th. 1844
            James R OCull Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            [REPORT OP DISTRICT No. 8]
            Report from Destrict No 8 It appears frome the Report of the Clerk of said destrict Jacob Kenerly
                    that the destrict  has in it 16 legal voters and 51 Scholars
                    over five & under 21 years of age
            Reported 15 of March 1844
            James R OCull Clerk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            [REPORT OF SOUTH PART OF DISTRICT NO. 4]
            Report from South part destrict No 4 it appears from the Report of the Clerk of Said destrict James
                    McBride that the destrict has in it 15 legal voters and 30 Schollars over five and under 21 years of
                    age Reported 6 of August 1844
            James R OCull Clerk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            MEETING OF TRUSTEES 1844
            State of Indiana
            
               
                        Shelby C[oun]ty
                     ss
            At a meeting of the Trustees of Congressional Township No. 13 N of Range 7 east Met at the Store of S
                    D Ludlow on the 13th. of September 1844
            It is ordered by the Board that S D Ludlow Treasurer of said school Township draw on the Auditor of
                    said County for all the Monies for common school purposes & surplus revanue due said school
                    Township at the September draw for 1844
            The Meeting then adjourned
            James R OCull Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            [DISTRICT WARRANTS FOR SCHOOL
                        FUNDS]
            [The township clerk recorded orders from the clerks of the following school districts for the
                    September, 1844, distribution: 1, 2, 4 South, 4 North, 5, 6, 8, and 
                        Shelbyville
                    .]
            REPORT FROM DESTRICT NO 6 JULY 1844
            It appea[r]s from the report of the Clerk of said Destrict H T Gaines that there are 70 seventy
                    Children in  sd Destrict over five & under Twenty one
                    Years Old Also Thirty legal Voters Reported 29th. July 1844
            James R OCull Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            TREASURERS BOND [SOUTH PART OF] DEST NO4
            [James McBride, district treasurer, was bonded on July 3, 1844, in the amount of $100
                    during his term of office; William Smith was guarantor.]
            AN ELECTION, DEST NO. 2. OCT AD 1844
            It appears from the election Returns filid in due time in my office that Reuben Deboard was elected
                    to surve Three Years Wm. Bollabaugh Two Years and Hardy Ray one Year as Destrict Trustees in
                    Destrict No. 2 T 13 R 7 East. Elected On the first Saturday in October 1844
            James R OCull Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            AN APOINTMEN OF DIST TRUSTEE DEST NO 2
            I James R OCull Clerk of Congressional Township No. 13 North of Range 7 East do here by appoint
                    Spencer Thayer Destrict Trustee in Destrict No. 2 Congressional To 13 R 7 East for one Year from
                    & after the first Saturday in October 1844 To fill the vacancy of H Ray Rev[m?]oved and
                    untill his successor is qualified into office Given under my hand this Day Jany 1845
            James R OCull Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            ELECTION RETURNS DEST NO. 6
            It appears from the Election returns filed in my office that Wm. Bennett was Elected Destrict Truste
                    in Destrict No 6 to serve Years from and after the 1st Saturday in October 1845 and Thomas Wheler
                    was Elected To serve
            Years as Destrict Trustee in said Destrict from & after 
                    the 1st. Saturday in October and untill ther sucessors is qualified into office Given under my hand
                    1845
            James R OCull Clk
            TREASURES BOND DISTRICT NO 2
            [Spencer Thayer, district treasurer, was bonded on February 10, 1845, in the amount of
                    $150 during his term of office; William Bollabaugh was guarantor.]
            METING OF TRUSTEES FEBRY 4TH 1845
            At a meeting of the Trustees of Congresional Township No. 13 N of Range 7 East Met in the Town of 
                        Marion
                     at the Store of S D Ludlows on the 4th. of February 1845 the Trustees all being Present
                    viz S.D Ludlow Wm. Montgomery and James R OCull
            It was ordered by the board that James R OCull serve as clerk of said Township for the Year of 1845
                    and that S D Ludlow act as Treasurer of Said Township for the Year 1845
            It is ordered by the Board of Trustees that S. D. Ludlow Treasurer of Congressional Township No. 13 N
                    of Range 7 East Draw on the Auditor of 
                        Shelby County
                     Indiana for all the moneys for Common school purposes and surplus Revanue due said
                    school Township at the March Distribution 1845
            James R OCull Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            TRESURERS BOND DISTRICT NO 6
            [William N. Bennett, district treasurer, was bonded on March 8, 1845, in the amount of
                    $100 during his term of office; Zacheus Bennett was guarantor.]
            TREASURES BOND SOUTH PART DIST NO. 4
            [John Linville, district treasurer, was bonded on March 12, 1845, in the amount of $50
                    during his term of office; Daniel Bates was guarantor.]
            
            [DISTRICT WARRANTS FOR SCHOOL
                        FUNDS]
            [The township clerk recorded orders from the clerks of the following school districts for the March,
                    1845, distribution: 1, 2, 4 South, 4 North, 5, 6, 8, and 
                        Shelbyville
                    .]
            MEETING OF THE TRUSTEES AUGUST
                    1845
            State of Indiana
            
                    
                        Shelby County
                    
                
            At a meeting of the Trustees of Congressional Township No. 13 N of Range 7 East Met in the Town of 
                        Marion
                     at the office of James R OCull's August 1845 It was ordered by the Board of
                    Trustees that there be an election held in the Town of 
                        Marion
                     on the last Saturday of August 1845 for the purpose of electing Two Township Trustees
                    to fill the vacancies of James R OCull and William Montgomery whoas terms of service will then have
                    expired
            It was further ordered by said board that William A Cook serve as clerk of said Election the Board
                    then ajourned
            James R OCull Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            MEETING OF THE TRUSTES SEPT
                        4TH. 1845
            Order to County auditor & Settlement
            with Township Treasurer
            State of Indiana
            
                    
                        Shelby County
                    
                
            At ameeting of the Trustees of School Township No. 13 N of R 7 East Met at the office of James R
                    OCulls on the forth of September 1845
            It was ordered by the Board that S D Ludlow Treasurer of Said Township draw on the county Auditor for
                    awarrent on the School Commitioner for all the common School funds and surplus revanue due said
                    Township for the Year 1845
            The board then entered into a settlement with S D Ludlow Treasurer of said School Township and an
                    examination of his Books & receipts find he the said Treasurer Received of the common school
                    funds & surplus revanue funds for the Benifit of said Township in all Four hundred and
                    Ninety five Dollars thirty eight cents and paid out up to September the 4th. 1845 for school
                    purposses of said Township Four hundred and Ninety one Dollars & 40 cents
            
            It was then ordered that James R OCull receive Two Dollars for his survissis out of the school Moneys
                    The Board then Adjourned
            James R OCull Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            REPORT OF AN ELECTIONAL SHELBYVILLE DEST
            
            From the returns of an election held in the Destrict of 
                        Shelbyville
                     October the 4th. 1845 in 
                        Shelbyville
                     District School Township No. 13 N of Range 7 East 
                        Shelby County
                     Indiana Woodville Browning wis [sic] duely Elected District Trustee
                    in said district for the term of Three years and Benjamin A Sparkes was elected District Trustee for
                    the term of Two years from and after the 4th. of October 1845 Given under my hand this November 1845
            James R OCull Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            [DISTRICT WARRANTS FOR SCHOOL
                        FUNDS]
            [The township clerk recorded orders from the clerks of the following school districts for the
                    September, 1845, distribution: 1, 2, 4 South, 4 North, 5, 6, 8, and 
                        Shelbyville
                    .]
            APOINTMENT OF DISTRICT TRUSTEES S E PT DIST 4 SOUTH PART
            
            State of Indiana
            
               
                        Shelby County
                     ss
            I the under signed Clerk of Congressional Township No. 13 N of Range 7 East this day have appointed
                    three District Trustees in the South part of District No 4 in Congressional Township No. 13 N of
                    Range 7 East (To wit) Maxwell Hauk for the Term of three years William Smith for the term of Two
                    years and John Hauk for the term of one year from and after the 1st. Saturday in October 1845
                    & untill there successors are qualified into office To fill the vacancies of James MCbrid
                    John Linvill & Daniel Bates whoos terms of servis has expired this 26th. of Jany 1846
            James R OCull Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            
            [NUMBER OF SCHOLARS REPORTED]
            Report of Dist No. 1 Jany 14th, 1846
            It appears from the report of said District No. 1 (Andrew R Sleeth Clerk) That there are ninety seven
                    (97) children betwen the age of five and Twenty one Years. Also Thirty five legal Voters in said
                    district
            James R OCull Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            Report of District No. 2 1846
            It appeas from the Report of Ruben Debord Clerk of District No. 2 that there are Ninety three
                    children between the ages of five and Twenty one years Als[o] Forty Voters as Reported January 1846
            James R OCull Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            Report from 
                        Shelbyville
                     Dist Jany 1846
            It appears from the Report of Elbridge G. Mayhew Clerk of the 
                        Shelbyville
                     District School Township No. 13 Rang 7 East that there are Ninety children over five
                    and under Twenty one yiars of age Also forty nine legal voters in said District as Reported January
                    1846
            James R O'Cull Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            Report from District No. 4 S[outh] part 1846
            It appears from the report of Maxell Hauk Clerk of the South part of District No. 4 School Township
                    No. 13 Range 7 East in the County of 
                        Shelby
                     and State of Indiana that there are Thirty four children between the age of five and 21
                    years Also nineteen legal voters in said South part of District No. 4 of sd. Township
            James R O'Cull Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            Report District No. 4 North part 1846
            It appears from the report of Caleb Sleeth Clerk of the North part of District No. 4 School Township
                    No. 13 R 7 East in the County of 
                        Shelby
                     and State of Indiana that there are fifty two children betwen the ages of five and
                    Twenty one years As Reported January 1846
            James R O'Cull Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            
            Report Dist No. 5 Jay, 1846
            It appears from the report of Wm. Monroney Clerk of District No. 5 that there are Fifty one children
                    over five and und[er] Twenty one years of age Also there are Twenty two voters in said District As
                    reported Jany 1846
            James R O'Cull Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            Report of Destrict No. 6 Jany 4 [14?] 1846
            It appears from the Report of H T Ganes Clk of Said Destrict No. 6 School Town Ship No. 13 North of
                    Range 7 East 
                        Shelby County
                     Indiana that thare are 80 Children betwen the ages of five and twenty one years of age
                    and also thirty voters as Reported Janary 1846
            James R O'Cull Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            Report of Dist No. 8 1846
            It appears from the report of Jacob Kennerly Clerk of District No. 8 school Township No. 13 Range 7
                    East that there are Forty eight children under the ages of Twenty one and over the age of five Years
                    in said District No. 8 Shelby Cty Indiana Also the total number of voters 17
            James R O'Cull Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            MEETING OF THE TRUSTEES FEBRUARY 28TH. 1846
            State of Indiana 
                        Shelby County
                    
            
            at a meeting of the Trustees of Congressional Township No 13 N of range 7 East met in the Town of 
                        Marion
                        Shelby County
                     Ia on the 28th of said February 1846 it was ordered by the Board that S D Ludlow
                    Treasurer of Said Congressional Township No 13 north of range 7 East Draw on the Auditor of 
                        Shelby County
                     Indiana for all the Moneys for Common Schools purposes and Surplus revanue due Said
                    School Township at the March Distrabution in the Year 1846
            James R O'Cull Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            
            [MEETING OF THE TRUSTEES]
            State of Indiana 
                        Shelby County
                    
            
            At ameeting of the Trustees of Congressional Township No. 13 R 7 East Met in Town of 
                        Marion
                     March 1846
            It was ordered by the Board that S D Ludlow be Allowed Three Dollars out of the scool moneys for
                    survissis rendered as Treasurer of said Township for the year 1845 It was further ordered that James
                    R OCull Be alloud Five Dollars for surviss Rendered as Clerk of said Township The Board the[n]
                    adjourned
            James R O'Cull Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            TREASURES BOND DIST NO. 1
            [Jacob Fox, district treasurer, was bonded March 7, 1846, in the amount of $100 during his
                    term of office; Hiram Fox was guarantor.]
            TREASURES BOND DIST SOUTH PART NO 4
            [William Smith, district treasurer, was bonded on March ∗∗∗, 1846,
                    in the amount of $100 during his term of office beginning January 26, 1846; James M.
                    Smith was guarantor.]
            [DISTRICT WARRANTS FOR SCHOOL
                        FUNDS]
            [The township clerk recorded orders from the clerks of the following school districts for the March,
                    1846, distribution: 1, 2, 4 South, 4 North, 5, 6, and 8.]
            MEETING OF BOARD OF TRUSTEES
                        OCT 12TH 1846
            At a meeting of the Trustees of congressional Township No. 13 of Range seven met in the Town of 
                        Marion
                     on the 12th day of October 1846
            William H. Sleeth appeared and produced an appointment as Trustee from Voorhees Conover Auditor of 
                        Shelby County
                    
                     with the certificate of Justice Bolton endorsed on the back
                    thereof of his taking the Oath of office whereupon he was appointed clerk of said congressional
                    Township
            It is Ordered by the Board that S. D. Ludlow Treasurer of said Township draw on the County auditor
                    for a warrant on the School Commissioner for all the common School funds and surplus revinue due
                    said Township for the Year 1846.
            Wm. H. Sleeth Clerk
            TOWNSHIP TREASURER'S REPORT
            
            To Wm. H. Sleeth clerk of congressional Township No. 13 North of Range 7. East
            I received October 12th 1846 of surplus revinue Eight dollars and fifteen cents $8.15.
                    also of common school funds $68.48. Sixty Eight dollars and forty Eight cents of the
                    September distribution for the use of common schools
            Stephen D. Ludlow Treasurer
            W H. Sleeth Clerk
            DISTRIBUTION OF THE SCHOOL FUNDS SEPTEMBER 1846
            Distribution of the school funds among the several school districts for September 1846 To wit
            
               
                  District No. 1
                  97 scholars.
                  $13.58. distributive share
                  Issued
               
               
                  Do
                  " 2
                  93 Do
                  $13.02 Do
                  Issued
               
               
                  Do 
                                Shelbyville
                             322
                  
                  90 Do
                  $12.60 Do
                  Issued
               
               
                  South part of 4
                  34 Do
                  $ 4.76 Do
                  Issued
               
               
                  North part of 4
                  52 Do
                  $ 7.28 Do
                  Issued
               
               
                  District " 5
                  51 Do
                  $ 7.14 Do
                  Issued
               
               
                  Do " 6
                  80 Do
                  $11.20 Do
                  Issued
               
               
                  Do " 8
                  48 Do
                  $ 6.72 Do
                  Issued
               
               
                   
                   
                  $76.30
               
               
                  Leving a ballance in the hands of the Treasurer of
                  $.33
               
               
                  amt Total
                   
                  $76.63
               
            
            W. H. Sleeth Clerk
            
               
                  22 So far as can be determined, District No. 3 and 
                            Shelbyville
                         District were not the same.
            
            
            [DISTRICT WARRANT FOR SCHOOL
                        FUNDS]
            District No. 1. Order for Warrant
            At a meeting of the Trustees of District No. "one" in congressional Township 13. of
                    Range 7.
            It is ordered that the Township clerk of said Township issue to Jacob Fox Treasurer of district No.
                    One an order on the Township Treasurer for the funds due this district at the September dividend
                    1846
            Andrew R Sleeth Clerk
            Recorded Sept 18th 1846.
            W. H. Sleeth Clk
            MEETING OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES FEBRY 5TH/47
            At a meeting of the Trustees of congressional Township No. 13 of Range seven met in the Town of 
                        Marion
                     on the 5th day of Februgry 1847
            Leander Kennedy appeard and produced an appointment as Trustee from Voohers Conover Auditor of 
                        Shelby County
                     with the certificate of Justice Bolton endorsed on the back ther of his taken the Oath
                    of offic whereupon he was appointed clerk of Said Congressional Township
            L. Kennedy Clerk
            At a meeting of the Trustees of Congrssional Township No. 13 N. of range 7 East on the 5th. day of
                    February 1847 S. D. Ludlow and L. Kennedy being presant
            Destrict No. 5 No. 8 and 
                        Shelbyville
                     destrict, having failed to furnish a list of the children resident within the same,
                    between the age of 5 and 21 Years It is therefore ordered, that the township clerk forthwith proceed
                    to make such list, by himself or deputy
            L. Kennedy Clerk
            MEETING OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES MARCH 8TH [1847]
            At a meeting of Trustees of Congressional Township No. 13 of Range 7 met in the Town of 
                        Marion
                     on th 8th day of March 1847
            It is orderd by the Board that S D. Ludlow Treasurer of Said Township draw on the County auditon for
                    a warrant  on the School Commissioner for all the Common School
                    funds and Surplus revinue due Said Township for the March Distribution for the Year 1847
            L. Kennedy Clk
            TOWNSHIP TREASURERS REPOART
            
            To L. Kennedy Clerk of Congressional Township No 13 North of Range 7 East
            I receive March 8th 1847 of surplus revinue Twenty six dollars & thirty six cents
                    $26.36 also of Common School funds Eighty six dollars and seventy two cents
                    $86.72 of the March distribution for the use of Common Schools
            Stephen D. Ludlow Treasurer
            L. Kennedy Clerk
            DISTRIBUTION OF THE SCHOOL FUNDS MARCH 1847
            Distribution of the school funds among the several districts March 1847 to wit
            
               
                  District No. 1
                  95 schollars
                  $19.00 Distribution share
                  (Issued)
               
               
                  do 2
                  90 schollars
                  18.00 Do
                  Issued
               
               
                  North part of 4
                  49 schollars
                  9.80 do
                  Issued
               
               
                  South part of 4
                  46 schollars
                  9.20 Do
                  Issued
               
               
                  Dist. 5
                  60 schollars
                  12.00 Do
                  Issued
               
               
                  Do 6
                  73 schollars
                  14.60 Do
                  Issued
               
               
                  
                     
                                Shelbyville
                             Dist.
                  84 schollars
                  16.80 Do
                  Issued
               
               
                  Dist. No. 8
                  57 schollars
                  11.40 Do
                  Issued
               
               
                  Amount allowed S. D. Ludlow
                  3.00
                  Issued
               
               
                   
                   
                  $113.80
               
               
                  amt total
                   
                   
                  q$113.80
               
            
            L. Kenndy Clerk
            MEETING OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES MARCH 1847
            At a meeting of the Congressional Township trustees No 13 of Range 7 E met in the Town of 
                        Marion
                     on the 9th day of March 1847
            It was Orderd that S. D. Ludlow Treasurer of said Township be allowd the sum of Three dollar for his
                    survises for the Year 1846 out of the School Funds
            
            It was further orderd that L Kennedy be allowed the Sum of Three dollar for taking the List of
                    Children in Districts No 5 No 8 & 
                        Shelbyville
                     district to be allowd Equaly out of the distribution of Each district for March 1847
            L Kennedy Clk
            [SHELBYVILLE DISTRICT TRUSTEE
                        APPOINTED]
            State of Indiana 
                        Shelby County
                    
            
            September 10th 1847
            Whereas a vacancy has occurd of a Trustee in the 
                        Shelbyville
                     Scool District occasioned by the Death of David Montgomery of said District. It is
                    therefore ordered that Samuel Medkiff be and he is hereby appointed trustee in the place of said
                    David Montgomery, to serve as such until his successor is elected and qualified
            L Kennedy T. Clerk
            TREASURERS BOND SHELBYVILLE
                        DISTRICT
            
            [Woodville Browning, district treasurer, was bonded on September 20, 1847, in the amount of
                    $100 during his term of office; Nathan Powell was guarantor.]
            [MEETING OF THE TRUSTEES]
            At a meeting of the trustees of Township No. 13 of range No. 7, in 
                        Shelby County
                    
                    
                        Ia.
                     hald at 
                        Marion
                     on this 14th. day of September 1847
            It was ordered by the Board that S. D Ludlow Treasurer of said Township draw on the County auditor
                    for a warrant on the School Comishoner for all the Common School funds and Surplus revinue due said
                    Township for the September Distribution for the Year 1847
            L. Kennedy Clerk
            TOWNSHIP TREASURER REPORT
            
            To L. Kennedy Clerk of Congressional Township No 13 north of R. 7 E
            
            I Recived September 18th 1847 of surplus Revinue Thirty Seven 66/100 Dollars also of common School
                    funds One hundred & Twenty three Dollars seventeen cent of the September distribution for
                    the use of Common Schools
            Stephen D Ludlow Treasurer
            L. Kennedy Clk
            DISTRIBUTION OF THE SCOOL FUNDS SEPT 1847
            Distribution of the scool funds among the severel district Sept 1847 to wit
            
               
                  District No. 1
                  95 schollars
                  26.60
                  Isued
               
               
                  District 2
                  90 schollars
                  25.20
                  Isued
               
               
                  South part of 4
                  46 schollars
                  12.88
                  Isued
               
               
                  North [part of] 4
                  49
                  13.72
                  Isued
               
               
                  District 6
                  73 schollars
                  20.46
                  Isued
               
               
                  District 8
                  57 schollars
                  15.96
                  Isued
               
               
                  
                     
                                Shelbyville
                             District
                  84 schollars
                  23.52
                  Isued
               
               
                  District No. 5
                  60 schollars
                  16.80
                  Isued
               
               
                   
                   
                  $155.14
               
               
                  Leaving a balance in the hands of the Treasurer of
                   
                  5.69
               
               
                   
                  amount Total
                   
                  $160.83
               
            
            L. Kennedy Clerk
            [DISTRICT No. 1 TRUSTEE APPOINTED]
            State of Ind. 
                        Shelby Co
                     November 5th 1847
            Where as a vacancy has occurd of a Trustee in District No. one in congressional Township No. 13 N of
                    R 7. E occasioned by the expiration of Jacob Fox Trems [sic] of service It is
                    therefore Orderd that David Sleeth be and he is herby appointed Trustee in the plac of said Fox to
                    serve as such Trustee untill his successor is Elected and qualified
            L. Kennedy Clk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            ELECTION RETURNS FROM DISTRICT
                    No. 6
            It appears from a certificate with me filed that their was an Election held in District No. 6 on th
                    2d. day of  October 1847 for the purpose of Electing District
                    Trustees for said District it was as follows
            At an Election held in school district No. 6 Congressional Township No. 13 in 
                        Shelby County
                     Ind. on the First Saturday in October 1847 to Elect 3 trustees of Said Distric
            John Glen reieved five Votes
            Solomon Nave Reiceved five Votes
            John M. Gordon Reieved five Votes
            Given under our hands this 2d. day of October 1847
            James Woodard
            Wm. G. Morris Judges
            Henry T. Gaines Clerk
            L. Kennedy Clerk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            [DISTRICT No. 5 TRUSTEE APPOINTED]
            State of 
                        Ia.
                     Shelby Co
            Whereas a vacancy has Occurd in District No. 5 in Congressional Township No. 13 N of R 7. E
                    Occasioned by the Expiration of Apolis Kinsley term of service as Trustee in said District It is
                    therefore orderd that Samuel Montgomery be and he is here by appointed Trustee in the place of Said
                    Kinsley to Serve as such trustee intill the next anual Election or untill his successor is Elected
                    and qualified
            L. Kennedy Clerk
            TREASURERS BOND [DISTRICT No.
                    5]
            [Samuel Montgomery, district treasurer, was bonded on February 2, 1848, in the amount of
                    $100 during his term of office beginning February 2, 1848; William Monroney was
                    guarantor.]
            ELECTION RETURN FROM SHEBYVILL DISTRICT
            
            The Clerk of Congessional Township No 13 Will Take notice the citizens of the Shelbyville School
                    District met Oct the fourth for the purpose of Electing Two district Trustees Whereas William Brown
                    recieved 17 votes and B A Sparks recieved 17 votes W. Brown and B A Sparks was therefore diley
                    Elected Trustees
            Oct 20th 1847 Benjamin A Sparks District Clerk
            L. Kennedy Clerk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            
            [PETITION FOR] DIVISION OF DISTRICT No 1. & 4
            To the trustees of congressional township thirteen north range seven east in the county of 
                        Shelby
                     State of Indiana we the undersigned petitioners of districts No. one and four in said
                    township represents that they suffer great inconvenience from the manner in which the said district
                    is divided as it rende[r]s it very inconvenient for a port[i] on of said inhabitants to send to
                    school they therefore ask that the disticts be divided as follows The East half of section ten and
                    the south East quarter of section three in said township to be taken from district No. one and add
                    to district No. four and your petitioners in duty bound
            
               
                  Names
                  Names
               
               
                  David T. Sleeth
                  Adam Rhoads
               
               
                  A R Sleeth
                  Wm. Halstead
               
               
                  Jacob Fox
                  Martin Rhoads
               
               
                  Zeno Fox
                  Clark Fox
               
               
                  Robert H Ormsbee
                  John Kastor
               
               
                  Samuel Copple
                  I M Eliott
               
               
                  Caleb Sleeth
                  Ephraim Rhoads
               
               
                  William Montgomery
                  Isaac Smith
               
               
                  Wm. Kaster
                  Ephraim Hoover
               
               
                  Beaten Rhoads
                  Jesse F Rhoads
               
               
                  Ira Hotstead [Halstead?]
                  John Sleeth
               
               
                  Charles Sweet
                  Wm McKinzee
               
               
                  Wm. A Cook
                  T. G. M. Salley
               
               
                  John Rhoads
                   
               
            
            Recorded By L. Kennedy Clerk
            T 13 N R 7 E
            [MEETING OF THE TRUSTEES]
            At a meeting of the trustees of township No. 13 of range No. 7 in 
                        Shelby County
                     held at 
                        Marion
                     on this 18th day of March 1848 in pursuance of notice from the township Clerk
            Ordered that the township treasurer be authorized to recieve the dividends due this township on the
                    first Mondy in March from the county treasurey and from the School Commisioner
            L. Kennedy Clerk
            
            TOWNSHIP TREASURERS REPORT
            
            To L. Kennedy Clerk of Congressional Township No. 13 of R 7 in 
                        Shelby County
                    
                    
                        Ia.
                    
            
            I Receved March 18th 1848 of Surplus Revinue Twenty One 52/100 dollars also of Common School funds
                    One hundred and Thirteen 32/100 dollars of the March distribution for the use of Common Schools
            S D Ludlow Treasurer
            L. Kennedy Clerk
            [MEETING OF THE TRUSTEES]
            At a meeting of the board of Township Trustees March 21st 184[8] It was ordered That S D Ludlow be
                    alowed the Sum of three Dollars for his Servises as Treasurer for th Year 1847 out of the school
                    funds Orderdred further that L. Kennedy be alowed Five dollars fr his servises as Clerk for the Year
                    1847 out of the school funds
            L. Kennedy Clerk
            DISTRIBUTION OF THE SCHOOL
                    FUNDS
            March 1848
            Distribution of the school funds among the several District March 1848 To wit
            
               
                  District No. 1
                  80 schollars
                  18.60
                  Ishued
               
               
                  District No. 2
                  83 schollars
                  20.33 1/2
                  Ishued
               
               
                  District No. 4 south
                  32 schollars
                  7.84
                  Ishued
               
               
                  District No. 4 North
                  67 schollars
                  16.41 1/2
                  Isued
               
               
                  District No. 6
                  78 schollars
                  18.11
                  Issued
               
               
                  District No. 5
                  62 schollars
                  15.19
                  Ishued
               
               
                  District No. 8
                  51 schollars
                  12.49 1/2
                  Isued
               
               
                  
                     
                                Shelbyville
                             District
                  80 schollars
                  16.60
                  Isued
               
               
                   
                  533
                  126.58
               
               
                  Amount Pd. Trustees
                   
                  8.00
               
               
                   
                   
                  134.58
               
               
                  Leaving abalance in the Treasury of
                   
                  26
               
               
                  Amount Totle
                   
                  $134.84
               
            
            L. Kennedy Clk
            
            [DISTRICT NO. 2 TRUSTEE APPOINTED
            
            State of Ind. 
                        Shelby Co
                    
            
            Sept 12th 1848
            Where as a vacancy has occurd of A Trustee in District No. 2 in Congressional Township No. 13 N of R.
                    7. E by Reuben Deboard Leaving said District It is therefore Ordered that Wm. Kennedy be and he is
                    here by appointed Trustee in place of said Deboard to serve as such Trustee intill his successor is
                    Elected and qualified.
            L. Kennedy Clk
            MEETING of th BOARD of TRUSTEES SEPT 18th 1848
            It is ordered by the board of Trustees of Congessional Township No. 13 of Range 7 that S. D Ludlow
                    Treasurer of said Township draw on the County auditor for a warrant on the Shool Commisioner for all
                    the common Shool funds and surplus revinue due said Township for the Year 1848
            L. Kennedy Clk
            It is further ordered by the board that S. D. Ludlow be allowed Three dollars for his servises as
                    Treasurer also L. Kennedy Five Dollars for his servises as Clerk.
            L. Kennedy Clerk
            TOWNSHIP TREASURER'S REPORT
            
            To L. Kennedy Clerk of Congressional Township No. 13 of R 7 in 
                        Shelby County
                    
                    
                        Ia.
                    
            
            I Received September 18th 1848 of surplus revinue Twenty One Dollars and fifty Cents also of school
                    funds one hundred and Eleven dollars and forty Cents of the September distribution for the use of
                    common schools also Twenty six Cents Left in the Treasury from the March Distribution 1848
            S. D. Ludlow [Treasurer]
            L. Kennedy [Clerk]
            [DISTRIBUTION of SCHOOL FUNDS]
            Distribution of The School funds among the several Districts Sept 18th 1848
            
            
               
                  District No. 1
                  80 schollars
                  18.80
                  Issued
               
               
                  District No. 2
                  83 schollars
                  19.50
                  Isuued
               
               
                  District No. 4 south
                  32
                  7.52
                  Issued
               
               
                  District 4 North
                  67
                  15.74 1/2
                  Issued
               
               
                  District No. 6
                  78
                  18.30
                  Issued
               
               
                  District No. 5
                  62
                  14.57
                  Issued
               
               
                  8 [sic] " 8
                  51
                  11.98 1/2
                  Issued
               
               
                  
                     
                                Shelbyville
                             District
                  80
                  18.80
                  Issued
               
               
                  Amount Pd. Trustees
                   
                  8.00
               
               
                  [Total]
                   
                  133.22
               
            
            TREASURERS BOND [SHELBYVILLE
                        DISTRICT]
            
            [John Weekley, district treasurer, was bonded on October 24, 1848, in the amount of $100
                    during his term of office; Benjamin A. Sparks was guarantor.]
            APPOINTMENT OF A TRUSTEE [FOR DISTRICT No. 5]
            Whereas Wm. Monroney who was duley Elected a trustee of district No. 5 by the voters there of, and
                    his Term has Terminated It is ther ordered, that Reuben Debooard be and he is here by appointed
                    trustee in the place of said Wm. Monroney. to seve as such until his sucessor is Elected and
                    qualified
            L. Kennedy Clk
            MEETING OF BOARD OF TRUSTEES
                        TOWN 13 N OF R 7 E
            It is ordered by the Board that S. D. Ludlow Treasurer of said Township draw on the County auditor
                    for a warrant on the Scool Commissioner for all the common School funds and surplus revinue due said
                    Township for the March Distribution 1849
            L. Kennedy Clerk
            TOWNSHIP TREASURERS REPORT
            
            To L. Kennedy Clk. of Congressional Township No. 13 N of R. 7.E in 
                        Shelby County
                     Ia
            I Recieved March 19th 1849 of Sirplus revinue fund Thirty Seven Dollars and sixty five Cents 37.65
                    … Also of  school funds Eighty Eight Dollars and
                    sixty eight Cents 88.68 of the March Distribution 1849 for the use of Common Shools
            S. D. Ludlow Tres.
            L. Kennedy Clerk
            [DISTRIBUTION OF SCHOOL FUNDS]
            Distribution of The Schoo Founds among the several District March 19th 1849
            
               
                  District No. 1
                  79 Schollars
                  $18.17 distribution
                  Issued
               
               
                  Do No. 2
                  71 Do
                  16.33 Do
                  Issued
               
               
                  Do No. 5
                  71 Do
                  16.33 Do
                  Issued
               
               
                  Do No. 6
                  70 do
                  16.10 Do
                  Issued
               
               
                  Do No. 8
                  50 do
                  11.50 Do
                  Issued
               
               
                  
                     
                                Shelbyville
                             District
                  99 do
                  22.77 do
                  Issued
               
               
                  North District 4
                  67
                  15.41
                  Issued
               
               
                  South District 4
                  35
                  8.05 Do
                  Issued
               
               
                   
                   
                  124.66
               
               
                  Balance in Treasury
                   
                  1.34
               
               
                   
                  Amt Total
                   
                  $126.00
               
            
            L. Kennedy Clerk
            MEETING OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES SEPT 25TH 1849
            By order of the board of trustees of Congressional township No 13 N of R 7 E that S. D. Ludlow
                    treasurer of said township draw on the County auditor for awarrant on the School Commishoners for
                    all the Common school funds and surplus revinue due said township for the september distribution
                    1849
            L. Kennedy Clerk
            TOWNSHIP TREASURERS REPORT
            
            To L. Kennedy Clerk of congressional Township No. 13 N of R 7 E in shelby county Ind.
            I recieved September 25th 1849 of surplus revinue fund Fifteen dollars and seventy five cents
                    $15.75. Also of school funds Ninty three dollars and seventy three cents
                    $93.73 of the September distribution 1849 for the use of common schools
            S. D. Ludlow Treas
            L. Kennedy Clerk
            
            [DISTRIBUTION OF SCHOOL FUNDS]
            Distribution of the school funds among the several districts September 1849
            
               
                  District No. 1
                  79 schollars
                  $15.80 distribution Share
                  Issud
               
               
                  District No. 2
                  71
                  14.20 Do
                  Issud
               
               
                  District No. 5
                  71
                  14.20 do
                  Issued
               
               
                  District No. 6
                  70
                  14.00 do
                  Issued
               
               
                  District No. 8
                  50
                  10.00 do
                  Issued
               
               
                  North No. 4
                  67
                  13.40 do
                  Issued
               
               
                  South No. 4
                  35
                  7.00 do
                  Issued
               
               
                  banance in treasury
                   
                  1.08
               
               
                   
                   
                  $109.48
                  Amount Total
               
            
            L. Kennedy Clerk
            MEETING OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
            
               
                        Marion
                     Ia
            March 11th 1850
            Whereas a vacancy has occurd in district No. 1 in Congressional township No. 13 N of R 7 E in 
                        Shelby County
                     occasioned by the Expiration of Jacob Fox term of Service, It is therefore Orderd that
                    R. H Ormsbee be and he is hereby appounted trustee in the place of Jacob Fox to serve as such until
                    the next annal Election
            L. Kennedy Clk
            By order of the board of trustees of Congressional township No. 13 N of R 7 E that S. D. Ludlow
                    treasurer of said township draw on the County auditor for a warrant on the school Commishoner for
                    all the Common School funds and surpluas revenue due said township for the March distribution 1850
            L. Kennedy Clerk
            [TOWNSHIP TREASURER'S REPORT]
            Township Treasurers Report To L. Kennedy Clerk of Congressional Township No. 13 N of R 7 E in 
                        Shelby Co
                    . 
                        Ia.
                     I recieved March 15th 1850 of school funds one hundred and forty seven 13/100 dollars
                    $147.13 of the March distribution 1850 for the use of Common Schools
            S. D. Ludlow Treas
            L. Kennedy Clk
            
            
               Page [141] from the original minute book of Congressional Township 13, Range 7 East. For printed
                        version of the above see pp. 366 and 368.
            
            
            [DISTRIBUTION OF SCHOOL FUNDS]
            Distribution of the school funds among the several districts March 1850 after allowing S. D. Ludlow
                    $3.00 and L. Kennedy Five dollars for servises renderd
            
               
                  District No. 1
                  80 Schollars
                  20.80 distribution share
                  Issued
               
               
                  District No. 2
                  86 Schollars
                  22.36 distribution share
                  Issued
               
               
                  District No. 5
                  74 Schollars
                  19.24 distribution share
                  Issued
               
               
                  District No. 6
                  70 Schollars
                  18.20 distribution share
                  Issued
               
               
                  North of No. 4
                  58 Schollars
                  15.08 distribution share
                  Issued
               
               
                  South of No. 4
                  35 Schollars
                  9.10 distribution share
                  Issued
               
               
                  
                     
                                Shelbyville
                             district
                  86 Schollars
                  22.36 distribution share
                  Issued
               
               
                  District No. 8
                  50 Schollars
                  13.00 distribution share
                  Issued
               
               
                  Amt in Treasuray
                   
                  1.08
               
               
                  pd. Township Trustees
                   
                  8.00
               
               
                   
                   
                  149.22
               
               
                   
               
            
            [APPOINTMENT OF DISTRICT TRUSTEES]
            April 12th 1850
            Whereas Nymrod Gatewood who was duly Elected a trustee of district No. 8 by the voters thereof, has
                    failed to qualify and serve as such after due notice of his Election It is therefore ordered that
                    John Cartmill be and he is hereby appointed trustee in the place of said N. Gatewood also Andrew
                    Jones appointed trustee in place of Wm. Webster who mooved from said district to serve as such
                    trustees untill their successors is Elected and qualified.
            L. Kennedy
            October 30th 1850
            Whereas Caleb Sleeth was appointed trustee in district No. 4 North part his Term of service has
                    Expired It is there fore ordered that Samuel McKinzee be and he is hereby appointed trustee in place
                    of Said Caleb Sleeth to serve as such untill his sucessor is Electded and qualified
            L Kennedy Clk
            November 1st 1850
            Whereas a vacancy has occurd in School District No. 6 in Congessional township No 13 Range 7 E it is
                    therefor ordered that Solomon Nave be and he is here by appointed  Trustee in said district to serve as such untill his sucessor is Elected an qualified
            L. Kennedy Clk
            Novr. 11 1850
            State of Indi
            
               
                        Shelby Co
                     ss
            It is hereby ordered by the undersigned Clerk of Congressional Township No. 13 of R 7 E That Samuel
                    Montgomery be and he is hereby appointed Trustee in district No. 5 in Said Township to serve as such
                    Trustee intill his successor is Elect and qualified
            L. Kennedy Clk
            April 2d 1851
            State of Indiana
            
                    
                        Shelby Co
                    
                
            It is hereby ordered by the undersigned Clerk of Congressional Township No. 13 of R 7 E That Andrew R
                    Sleeth be and he is here by appointed Trustee in district No. One in Said Township to serve as such
                    Trustee untill his successor is Elected and qualified in place of R H Ormsbee resigned
            L. Kennedy Clk
            DISTRICTS TRUSTEES REPORT OF
                        SCHOLLARS FOR MARCH 1851
            
               
                   
                   
                  Sch
               
               
                  District
                  No. 1
                  73
               
               
                  District
                  No. 2
                  85
               
               
                  District North
                  No. 4
                  63
               
               
                  District South
                  No. 4
                  36
               
               
                  District
                  No. 5
                  69
               
               
                  District
                  No. 6
                  74
               
               
                  District
                  No. 8
                  63
               
               
                  
                     
                                Shelbyville
                             District
                   
                  106
               
               
                   
                   
                  569
               
            
            [MEETING OF THE TRUSTEES]
            By Order of the board of Trustees District No. 2 having faild to furnish a list of Children resident
                    within the same between the ages of 5 and 21 Years als on [also?] District No. 6 and district North
                    No. 4 It is therefore ordered that  the township Clerk forthwith
                    procede to make such list by himself or deputy
            The board Charges the above distrcts One dollar Each for assesing Same
            It is further ordered that the Treasurer pay James Holbroo one dollar and thirty seven Cent the
                    amount due him from his district for sending to school in ajoining district
            
               
                  Also pay Zeno Fox 1.37 Also pay Wm. Oldham 1.37 Also pay Wm. Kastor
                            68½ [Also] pay John Whitead 68½
                  Out of District No. 1 distribution for same as above
               
               
                  Warrants Issued for above amt
                   
               
            
            L. Kennedy Clk
            NOTICE OF AN ELECTION [OF TOWNSHIP TRUSTEES]
            At a meeting of The Trustees of Township 13 N of R 7 E It was ordered that an Election be held at 
                        Marion
                     August 30th 1851 For the purpose of Electing Township Trustees in said Township to fill
                    the vacances occasioned by the Expiration of the present Trustees terms of service Notice given
                    accordingally
            August 6th 1851
            L Kennedy T.S. Clerk
            [TRUSTEE ELECTION RETURNS]
            State of Indiana 
                        Shelby County
                    
            
            We the undersigned the Inspector Judges and Clerk of an Election held in 
                        Marion
                     on the 30th day of August 1851 in Congressional township number 13 North of range 7 E
                    in the County aforesaid pursuent to legal notice there of given do here by Certify that J. R. OCull
                    recieved seven votes Jesse Bolton recieved seven votes and Jacob Fox recieved seven votes all for
                    the office of Trustee of sand [said] Township and the said J. R OCull Jesse Bolton and Jacob Fox
                    having an equal number of votes the sand inspector and Judges proceded to determin the duration of
                    their respective terms of office by lot the result of which that the said J R OCull was declared to
                    duley Elected for the term  of three Years and the said Jacob
                    Fox for the Term of Two Years and Jesse Bolton for the Term of One Year
            J R OCull Inspector
            John Biggs
            S D Ludlow Judges
            L. Kennedy Clrk
            REPORT MADE TO AUDITOR OCT
                    1851
            List of children between the ages of five and twenty-on Yiars in township No. 13 of range 7 in 
                        Shelby County
                    
                    
                        Ia.
                    
            
            
               
                   
                   
                  Males
                  Females
                  Total
               
               
                  District
                  No. 1
                  35
                  26
                  61
               
               
                  District
                  No. 2
                  47
                  44
                  91
               
               
                  North District
                  No. 4
                  25
                  21
                  46
               
               
                  South District
                  No. 4
                  21
                  25
                  46
               
               
                  District
                  No. 5
                  50
                  32
                  82
               
               
                  District
                  No. 6
                  46
                  24
                  70
               
               
                  District
                  No. 8
                  38
                  25
                  63
               
               
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  459
               
            
            
               
                        Shelbyville
                     District23
            
            L. Kennedy Clk
            [DISTRICT No. 6 TRUSTEES APPOINTED]
            Novr 3d 1851
            State of Ia
            
                    
                        Shelby Co
                    
                
            It is hereby ordered by the undersigned Clerk of Congressional township No. 13 N of R 7 E That
                    Richard G. Gains be and he is hereby appointed trustee in district No. 6 in said township to serve
                    (in place of Soloman Nave (Resigned) as such trustee untill his successor is Elected and qualified
            L. Kennedy
            April 12th/52
            It is herby ordered by the undersigned Clerk of Congressinal township No. 13 N of R 7 E That John M
                    Gordon 
                  
                     23 It is not known why the 
                                Shelbyville
                             District is not included in this and the October, 1852, reports to the auditor.
                            Possible explanations are that the school children living in the Township 13 part of 
                                Shelbyville
                             were transferred to schools in Township 12 or that the 
                                Shelbyville
                             schools had been placed under a separate financing arrangement.
               
                     be and he is here by appointed trustee in District No. 6 in
                    said Township in place of R.G. Gains removed
            L. Kennedy
            [MEETING OF THE TRUSTEES]
            At a meeting of the trustees of Township No. 13 of range No. 8 in 
                        Shelby County
                     held at 
                        Marion
                     on the 8th day of March 1852 in pursuance of notice from the township Clerk Ordered
                    that the township treasure draw on the County auditor for an order on the Treasurer for all the
                    school funds due this township on the scond Monday of March 1852
            L. Kennedy
            [DISTRICT No. 8 TRUSTEE APPOINTED]
            Sept 3d 1852
            By order of the undersigned Clerk of Congression Township No. 13 of R 7 E That James Linsey be and he
                    is here by appointed Trustee in district No. 8 in said Township to serve as such Trustee untill his
                    sucessor is Elected and qualified
            L. Kennedy
            [REPORT MADE TO AUDITOR, OCTOBER 1852]
            Report Made to Audidtor Oct 1852 of Children reported by Trustees
            
               
                   
                   
                  Males
                  Females
                  Whole
               
               
                  District
                  No 1
                  35
                  33
                  68
               
               
                  District
                  No 2
                  44
                  38
                  82
               
               
                  North part
                  No 4
                  19
                  26
                  45
               
               
                  South part
                  No 4
                  31
                  28
                  59
               
               
                  District
                  No 5
                  50
                  37
                  87
               
               
                  District
                  No 6
                  47
                  26
                  73
               
               
                  District
                  No 8
                  38
                  25
                  63
               
               
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  477
               
            
            
               
                        Shelbyville
                     District
            L Kennedy
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               The Papers of James Madison, Volumes 1–2. Edited by William T.
                    Hutchinson and William M. E. Rachal. (
                        Chicago
                    : University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1962. Vol. 1: 16 March—16 December 1779. Pp. xlii,
                    343. Vol. 2: 20 March 1780—23 February 1781. Pp. xix, 343.
                    Illustrations, notes, indexes. $10.00 per volume.)
            These two volumes constitute the first installment of the colossal effort at publishing a complete,
                    scholarly edition of the papers of James Madison. The effort involves the collaboration of a number
                    of individuals, libraries, universities, historical organizations, and foundations. The editors are
                    attempting to print in chronological order every paper of any significance that they can find that
                    is probably in whole or in part the product of Madison's mind whether written by him or
                    quoted from him and summarized by someone else. Also included are papers submitted to him that
                    presumably received his careful attention.
            In the first volume the editors give a description of their methods; a history of movements of the
                    papers; an account of previous efforts at publishing selections, including the efforts of Madison at
                    selecting, arranging, correcting, and discarding; and a table of contents listing in chronological
                    order each paper. In this volume appear few papers that in themselves are too important. There are
                    some notes that Madison had taken from his reading of treatises; some thirty letters that passed
                    between him and William Bradford, son of the famous publisher, during the period between his
                    graduation from 
                        New Jersey
                     College and his service in the 
                        Virginia
                     Revolutionary convention; his amendment to the 
                        Virginia
                     Bill of Rights concerning religious liberty; and some thirty warrants and orders signed
                    by Madison and other members of the 
                        Virginia
                     Council of State while he was a member of that body in 1778–1779. The
                    earlier letters between Madison and Bradford discuss the whereabouts of their former college
                    classmates and their own uncertainties about choosing a vocation. But by 1773 Madison becomes
                    excited over religious persecution of dissenters in his state and associates church establishment
                    with oppression and loss of liberty in general. By 1774 the letters are filled with support of
                    resistance to Britain.
            The second volume is composed almost entirely of papers originating while Madison was one of the 
                        Virginia
                     delegates to the Continental Congress during the last year of its existence. He was a
                    member of some twenty of that body's committees and chairman of a few important ones. He
                    with others signed the reports of these committees and offered motions in their behalf to Congress.
                    Some of these reports and motions can be identified as being primarily of his authorship. He with
                    other members of 
                        Virginia
                    's delegation signed reports to the governor and to the general assembly of
                    that state. He drafted the instructions to John Jay and to Henry Laurens, the ministers who assisted
                    Franklin and Adams in negotiating the preliminary Treaty of Peace with 
                        England
                    .
            
            The value of the papers may be divided into at least two classes. Some of the papers are such that by
                    themselves they give the historian the answer to an important question. Such are the documents
                    revealing the evidence of Madison's devotion to religious liberty; the evidence of his
                    attitude on the cession of 
                        Virginia
                    's western lands; and the evidence of his defense, in his instructions to Jay,
                    of claiming the West up to the 
                        Mississippi
                     and the freedom of navigation on that stream. The other value of the papers comes from
                    reading all the documents in succession. The reader will then be impressed through the repetition of
                    the statements of certain facts in all kinds of documents by all kinds of writers. Lack of swift and
                    accurate communication is revealed in these documents. In the midst of Revolutionary struggle no one
                    seemed to know accurately what was going on. Again and again rumors of military engagements,
                    movements of armies and fleets were followed weeks later by reports that the rumors were unfounded.
                    There was repeated mention of jealousy by one state of another, of suspicion by Americans of the
                    motives of their allies, of rivalry between factions in Congress and in states, and of mistrust of
                    political leaders. The reader will be impressed by the repeated references to the economic anarchy
                    and the confusion caused by the currency. He will be amused at the lack of organization in
                    forwarding supplies and raising recruits and then probably puzzled that no one mentions the
                    possibility of quitting.
            The editorial work has gone about as far or high as such a thing could go. The net has been spread
                    far and wide to drag in everything written by or to Madison that can be uncovered at this time. The
                    footnotes at the end of each item, on the average, occupy as much space in the book as the original
                    document itself and in most cases contain many times as much information. The footnotes attempt
                    adequately to identify every proper name, explain words and statements that might not be understood
                    by the general reader, state the difference of views on controversial questions, and cite in
                    bibliographical completeness the authorities for the contributions in the footnotes. The volume
                    includes maps of 
                        Virginia
                     giving rivers, counties, and places for the period of Madison's life. There
                    are portraits of pertinent personalities. The index is complete and usable with cross-references
                    that make it almost impossible to fail to find quickly anything in the writings or footnotes that is
                    there. It is to be hoped that this work will be carried to its completion on the level on which it
                    has been begun.
            Albert L. Kohlmeier, Indiana University
            
         
         
            
               Whitehall and the Wilderness: The Middle West in British Colonial Policy,
                        1760–1775. By Jack M. Sosin. (Lincoln: The University of 
                        Nebraska
                     Press, 1961. Pp. xvi, 307. Maps, appendix, bibliography, index. $6.50.)
            This is a book with a thesis—or, rather, several of them. It sets out to revise, in
                    certain important respects, the interpretation of British policy in the west between 1763 and 1776
                    that is set forth in C. V.  Alvord's classic The Mississippi Valley in British Politics. … Mr.
                    Sosin almost completely dismisses the possibility that ideas or theories as such had any significant
                    impact on British colonial policy. On the contrary, "British ministers were primarily
                    administrators who arrived at particular solutions for specific problems as they arose, although
                    they may have phrased their decisions in the terminology of mercantilist doctrine" (p. x).
                    Mr. Sosin does share Professor Alvord's belief that the chief concern of the British
                    ministers dealing with the colonies in these years was the administration of territories acquired by
                    the Treaty of 
                        Paris
                     and not the seaboard provinces, at least until the violent colonial resistance to the
                    ministerial and parliamentary measures with regard to the west forced the ministry to concentrate
                    upon maintaining imperial authority. Actually, the area discussed is roughly that which came to be
                    called the Old Northwest. Because, says the author, of the excellence of other treatments of the
                    southern frontier, little attention is paid here to that area.
            The story begins with a chapter on the issues in the negotiations of the Treaty of 
                        Paris
                     that pertained to the west. Now that the western territories in America had been
                    acquired "for the security of the American colonists" the ministers set out
                    "to insure this goal"! Regular troops would protect the continent. Taxes raised in
                    America would pay their expenses. "The decision to adopt these measures … was to
                    lead to the disruption of that [the first British] Empire in the American Revolution" (p.
                    25). But policy was determined by practical experience.
            With the unexpected outbreak of colonial resistance and violence after the Stamp Act and the renewed
                    opposition to the measures of 1767 and 1768, the mother-country's problem became a double
                    one. For now, in addition to the still unresolved problem of the west, the ministry was faced with a
                    persistent and organized colonial resistance to imperial authority.
            Meanwhile, the pressure of the land speculators upon the ministry was constant, varied, and very
                    powerful. Partly in response to this pressure, partly in the hope of pacifying the Indians, and
                    partly because of the desire to economize in the administration of the west, the ministry decided,
                    in 1768, to revise the boundary line westward, to evacuate several of the western posts, and to
                    return control of the Indian trade to the individual colonies. But the failure of the colonial
                    assemblies to provide any workable administration of the western problem, coupled with the confusion
                    in governmental circles in 
                        London
                    , resulted in chaos on the western frontier. At last, almost in desperation, the
                    ministry decided to turn over the problem of the frontier north of the 
                        Ohio
                     to Quebec, "the only colony which had demonstrated an ability to get along
                    with the native tribes" (p. 238). The Quebec Act was thus a final phase of British policy
                    with regard to the west, one which represented an abandonment of the "imperial"
                    policy of administration of the northwest in favor of assigning that responsibility to a single
                    colony that could be depended upon.
            It is a useful book based upon a vast reading and careful, thoughtful sorting of documentary
                    materials; it is one written in extreme detail. The reviewer recognizes its value; but he cannot
                    believe that there were  no statesmen, that there was no genuine
                    theory or vision involved in the conception and execution of British policy during these years,
                    either in America or in 
                        England
                    . It is his belief that the broader evidence indicates otherwise.
            Max Savelle, University of 
                            Washington
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               The Western Journals of John May: 
                            Ohio
                         Company Agent and Business Adventurer. Edited by Dwight L. Smith. ([
                        Cincinnati
                    ]: Historical and Philosophical Society of 
                        Ohio
                    , 1961. Pp. xii, 176. Illustrations, notes, map, bibliography, index. $5.50.)
            Here is a masterpiece of editorial sleuthing: editor Smith has solved the May manuscript mystery. For
                    years historians have been victims of the editorial ineptitude of Reverend Richard S. Edes, grandson
                    of the 
                        Boston
                     merchant, John May, whose western journals Smith has restored to reputability. After
                    editing (emasculating) for publication in 1873 his grandfather's original of the 1788
                    journey, Reverend Edes felt obliged to destroy the original manuscript. He also presumed to say that
                    there was no journal for the 1789 trip. Recently the Historical and Philosophical Society of 
                        Ohio
                     acquired manuscripts claimed to be the originals of both. Editor Smith has demonstrated
                    that the 1788 manuscript by an unknown scribe was a more faithful copy than the Edes product. He has
                    also shown that the 1789 manuscript is the original itself. There is a lacuna of a half
                    month's entries at the end of the 1788 manuscript, caused by the failure of the copyist to
                    complete the job. Smith has, therefore, added a patch from Reverend Edes.
            The May story is an excellent account of how one easterner found the westward movement unprofitable.
                    John May (1748–1812) was a Bostonian of affluence, a merchant, and a shipper. He
                    "attended" the Boston Tea Party of December 16, 1773, and was an officer in a
                    Boston regiment during the Revolutionary War. He became a stockholder, agent, and landholder in the 
                        Ohio
                     Company of Associates in 1787, and spent two years trying to make the venture
                    profitable to the company and himself.
            May proved to himself the hard way that in the late 1780's a 
                        Boston
                     merchant of affluence could maintain that position better by staying in 
                        Boston
                     than by going West. He arrived at 
                        Marietta
                     (
                        Ohio
                    ) on May 27, 1788, and found the "situation delightfully agreeable, well
                    calculated for an elegant City" (p. 48). He completed the first frame house in 
                        Marietta
                    , which he designed as a residence, a tavern, and a storehouse (p. 63). He then returned
                    to 
                        Boston
                     determined to come out the next year with merchandise sufficient to set up a store.
            The journal of 1789 is a blow-by-blow account of a losing struggle. He shipped his goods from 
                        Boston
                     to 
                        Baltimore
                     where he organized a wagon train and "stood for the Wilderness" on
                    May 11 (p. 93). A "Terrible Tornado" blocked his way a few miles east of Redstone
                    Old Fort. About the same time the reported "Downfall of Gensang" delayed him
                    further as he sought to confirm this disaster to his selling power (p. 138). By the time he was able
                    to get his goods on a "Kentuc  Boat" the
                    "Manongahola" was too low to proceed (p. 138). In the meantime, he visited 
                        Marietta
                    , which he found too "poor and proud" for prospects of profits (p.
                    139). Finally he opened up a store at 
                        Wheeling
                    , where he disposed of his goods to a "Dutch man" whom he
                    "hooked" by keeping his "skin full" (p. 149). He returned to the
                    East with 14 horseloads of "Skins and Sang" and an unspecified amount of cash (p.
                    156).
            May's daily account of life and customs, as well as conditions along the way, were
                    charmingly detailed, graphic, and ungrammatical. However, he apologized that his reports were
                    "verry incorrect, but I believe will serve to show that I go to bed sober, tho'
                    Never out of good old 
                        Jamaica
                     Sperritt and with it frequently recruit my oun, when Drooping" (p. 152).
            Randolph C. Downes, University of 
                            Toledo
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               The Turning Point: Jefferson's Battle for the Presidency. By Frank van
                    der Linden. (
                        Washington
                    : Robert B. Luce, 1962. Pp. x, 371. Illustrations, appendix, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $6.50.)
            Mr. Van der Linden remarks in the Foreword that his book tells us two stories. The first story
                    concerns itself with "the Revolution of 1800" and the second with "the
                    romance between Margaret Bayard and Samuel Harrison Smith." Neither story is handled well.
                    Nothing new is added and much is omitted from the account of Jefferson's election in 1800.
                    Noble Cunningham's brilliant study, The Jeffersonian Republicans (
                        Chapel Hill
                    , University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1957), which would have added much to the background, was magnificently ignored.
                    As for the love letters that Mr. Van der Linden "discovered," it is certain that
                    the Library of Congress knew that they were there all the time, and they do not in any way
                    "reveal what actually happened in the bitter political conflicts of the years between 1796
                    and 1801."
            The presentation is usually felicitous, but sometimes turns saccharine. The attempt "to
                    paint a picture of American life in the age of Thomas Jefferson" occasionally comes off
                    well and the chapter dealing with the actual voting in the House of Representatives that February,
                    1801, is the best descriptive writing in the book because the author allows the participants to tell
                    their own story. Each quotation is carefully footnoted at the end of the volume, a cursed practice,
                    but all too often the temptation to extemporize becomes too great. Mr. Van der Linden tells us that
                    "no doubt" Samuel H. Smith called on Jefferson (p. 237), a slight matter without
                    evidence and perhaps not needing any, but on the very same page he also tells us that "no
                    doubt" Jefferson "supplied the paper [Smith's National
                        Intelligencer] with the latest news." Evidence is essential in this latter case.
            Trust in the material presented is not built without the historian's handmaiden called
                    source, nor is that confidence lightly regarded until abused. The reader's faith is shaken
                    badly when he is boldly told that "Jefferson secretly drafted a series of resolutions which
                    were adopted by the legislatures of 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Virginia
                     late in 1798" (p. 127). Irving Brant, the editors of the Madison Papers,
                    Adrienne Koch, and  any reader reasonably well acquainted with
                    the far-from-little-known facts of American history will all be appalled to see one of the mainstays
                    of James Madison's claim to rank as a philosopher of Republicanism so blithely attributed
                    to his fellow Virginian. The editor, particularly of a new publishing house, should have caught such
                    an error even if the author knew not what he had done.
            There is a drama in the election of 1800 and there is romance between the two young lovers, Margaret
                    and Samuel, but the skeins of the two themes are not mutually interdependent and the attempt to bind
                    the two stories confuses the first without shedding light on it and makes the second look
                    ridiculous. Margaret Bayard wrote some interesting love letters and Jefferson was elected, but the
                    latter was conceded before the book was written and the letters do not change either the reasons or
                    the fact of the election.
            Hugh Willard Ripley, Indiana University
            
         
         
            
               Letter Book of the Indian Agency at 
                            Fort Wayne
                        , 1809–1815. Edited by Gayle Thornbrough. Indiana
                        Historical Society Publications, Volume 21. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1961. Pp. 272. Map, notes, index. Paperbound,
                    $2.50.)
            Miss Thornbrough and the Indiana Historical Society are to be congratulated for the excellent manner
                    in which they have edited and p–blished the letter books of John Johnston and Benjamin F.
                    Stickney, Indian agents of 
                        Fort Wayne
                     in the years prior to and during the War of 1812. The documents by themselves are a
                    mine of information concerning relations with the Indians and the British during this period of
                    frontier conflict. The notes, the preface, and the conclusion are evidently the result of patient
                    research and scholarship. Those interested in the policy of the government of the 
                        United States
                     concerning the Indians on the frontier of the Old Northwest, in the abortive attempts
                    to educate and to civilize the Indians, in the fruitless negotiations with Tecumseh and The Prophet
                    in the months prior to the outbreak of the War of 1812, and in the equally fruitless attempts to
                    retain the friendship and the support of the Indian tribes at the same time, will find this book
                    most valuable.
            Those merely interested in fiction-like history will find that, also, merely by reading between the
                    lines. The confused and disorganized relationship between the Indian agent, the factor, and the
                    military commander at 
                        Fort Wayne
                     led to petty bickerings and rivalries which are often reflected in the letters of the
                    agent. Of even more interest is the relationship of the succeeding agents one to the other. William
                    Wells was appointed as assistant agent for Indian affairs in Indiana Territory in 1802 with his
                    residence at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . In the same year, John Johnston was named factor of the Indian trading house. In 1809,
                    after seven years of "petty politics, intrigues, jealousies, etc., that permeated the
                    internal affairs of the Indian Department" (pp. 13–14), Wells was removed as
                    agent and replaced by Johnston. Wells, to this reviewer, has long been a favorite character and was,
                    as Miss Thornbrough states, a controversial figure. We are indebted to the author for an excellent,
                         though much too short, history of Wells' agency
                    and his eventual removal.
            The letter book begins with Johnston's appointment in 1809 to the Indiana Territory Agency.
                    It continues through the years of his agency (1809–1812) and the first three years
                    (1812–1815) of the agency of Benjamin F. Stickney who replaced Johnston when the latter
                    moved to the 
                        Piqua
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , agency. Miss Thornbrough, in her introduction, in her notes, and in her review of the
                    last three years (1815–1818) of Stickney's agency, has done an excellent job of
                    maintaining objective neutrality when discussing the rivalries between Johnston and Wells and
                    between Johnston and Stickney. For purely romantic reasons, and with most of the facts of the case
                    arrayed against him, this reviewer has always been sympathetic toward Wells and Stickney. Surely, a
                    case could be made for the view that Johnston connived and schemed for seven years to poison the
                    minds of Governor William Henry Harrison and Secretary of War Henry Dearborn against Wells in order
                    to become agent at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . Then, from 1815 to 1818, he repeated the performance to get rid of Stickney and to
                    combine the 
                        Piqua
                     and 
                        Fort Wayne
                     agencies under his control. However, to take sides on such an issue as that in such a
                    work as this would have been improper, and Miss Thornbrough is to be applauded for her objectivity
                    and for her contribution to those who may, at a later date, desire to interpret history.
            Joseph A. Parsons, Jr., Lamar State College of Technology
            
         
         
            
               The Holy See and the Nascent Church in the 
                            Middle Western United States
                        , 1826–1850. By Robert Frederick Trisco. (
                        Rome
                    : Gregorian University Press, 1962. Pp. xii, 408. Maps, bibliography, index.
                    $5.90.)
            The quarter century which Father Trisco treats in this scholarly study was a critical era in the
                    history of the Catholic Church in the Middle West. He defines the Middle West loosely as
                    "the region stretching from the Alleghenies to the Rockies except the South." In
                    1826 the Catholic population of the area approximated 7,500 in three dioceses. By 1850 it exceeded
                    400,000 in eleven dioceses—a fifty-threefold increase in twenty-five years.
            Father Trisco has valid reasons for selecting 1826 as the starting date and 1850 as the closing date
                    for his study. In 1826 Mauro Cappellari accepted the directorship of the Sacred Congregation de
                    Propaganda Fide, the papal agency concerned with administration and expansion of the mission fields
                    in the world. In that year the erection of the Diocese of 
                        St. Louis
                     made the Western Church juridically distinct from the rest of the 
                        United States
                    . Then too, the early history of the three trans-Allegheny dioceses
                            (
                  Bardstown, Cincinnati
               , and 
                        St. Louis
                    ) has already been adequately treated. The year 1850 seems to be a logical concluding
                    date for Father Trisco's specialized study. It was the year of the death of Benedict Joseph
                    Flaget, the first bishop of the Middle West. In 1850, moreover, the first two metropolitan provinces
                    were established in the trans-Allegheny country. And by 1850 the Church was flourishing and had come
                    of age—it could no longer be classed as "nascent."
            
            Approximately half of the volume deals with three general subjects: the dioceses, the bishops, and
                    the clergy. The papacy was most responsive to boundary changes requested by the American bishops.
                    "If the appointment of suitable bishops was one of the important ways of fostering the
                    nascent Church," concludes Father Trisco (p. 166), "the Holy See must in general
                    be praised for its efforts to choose the best candidates." He also lauds the
                    Propaganda's activity "to strengthen the Western clergy in quantity and
                    quality" (p. 224).
            The last three chapters deal with the material aid the papacy gave the young Western Church. Too
                    little space is given to the contributions of the religious orders and their educational efforts,
                    although the tragic story of the Poor Clares is presented in great detail and most objectively. The
                    chapter on "Discipline" is devoted chiefly to the troubles and resignation of
                    Frederick Rese, first Bishop of 
                        Detroit
                    .
            The published work, in the main, comes out of a doctoral dissertation presented to the Pontifical
                    Gregorian University in 1959. It was based in a large measure upon manuscript materials in the
                    Vatican Library, especially the extensive files of the Propaganda's archives. It is written
                    from the point of view of 
                        Rome
                    , but by an historian who has an excellent acquaintance with the American Church history
                    of the 1820–1860 era. It is a study of the Church internal, and the political and
                    non-religious facets (in this reviewer's opinion) receive too little space and attention.
                    It is almost as if the Church existed in a vacuum. Although such subjects as sectionalism and
                    slavery, the Indian problem, and Know-Nothingism and bigotry receive mention in the Introduction,
                    these are bypassed in favor of a discussion of topics upon which the papal archives shed more light.
            The many footnotes attest to the intensity of research and the erudition of the author. Many are
                    Latin excerpts from the sources; some cite French and Italian documents.
            The book is a kind of historian's history. It is an important chapter in Midwestern history
                    and in Catholic Church history. It is Father Trisco's first monograph, and it reveals a
                    depth of scholarship which presages a bright future for a budding historian of the Catholic Church
                    in America.
            Frank L. Element, Marquette University
            
         
         
            
               Edward Kern and American Expansion. By Robert V. Hine. Yale Western
                        Americana Series, I. (
                        New Haven
                    , Conn.: Yale University Press, 1962. Pp. xix, 180. Illustrations, bibliographical
                    essay, index. $6.00.)
            This splendid monograph was written for those who have a wide understanding of the mid-nineteenth
                    century American scene. Professor Hine has presumed a reader appreciation of the foreign relations
                    and the degree of western exploration of that period, and even an elementary knowledge of American
                    art. The scholar who delights in a tightly constructed, widely researched, and well-written work
                    will rejoice that this study is precisely what the title specifies.
            
            Professor Hine has interwoven into his account of Edward ("Ned") Kern the parallel
                    lives of his brothers Benjamin and Richard. All three were caught up in a restless society whose
                    "fever was the result of a contagious Romanticism" (Preface, vii). The spectacular
                    beauty of the still-unexplored West mesmerized them. Its savagery almost extinguished them: brother
                    Benjamin was killed by the Utes in 1849; four years later Richard was cut down by the same people.
            The theme of this fine contribution to the Yale Western Americana Series is the way
                    in which the artist-scientist Ned Kern acted upon and, above all, was subject to America's
                    period of Manifest Destiny. While most of the research was done at the 
                        Huntington
                     Library, the author has tracked down manuscript material and Kern illustrations all
                    over the 
                        United States
                    . The product of these labors will be welcomed by historians of the trans-
                        Mississippi
                     West and the greater Pacific region. Likewise, researchers engaged in either domestic
                    art history or the development of scientific study by Americans will surely wish to examine Edward Kern and American Expansion. The Kerns epitomized that fast-fading
                    generation which dared pry into every aspect of man's natural environment.
            Historians of the Pacific will want to read Chapters V and VI which deal with the 
                        United States
                     Navy's North Pacific Exploring Expedition. That ambitious project, concurrent
                    with Perry's opening of 
                        Japan
                     and stretching over a number of years, deserves greater attention than it has
                    heretofore received.
            Approximately a fourth of the book is devoted to index, bibliography, and appended illustrations.
                    There are thirty-six pages which sample Kern's paintings, sketches, and cartographical
                    notes. In addition, and quite as fascinating as Kern's illustrations of Zuni and Navajo
                    Indians, are the daguerreotypes of the Kern brothers. Unfortunately these latter are not dated and
                    one can only guess when the bearded, youthful faces were caught for posterity. Why there is no map
                    in a book which absolutely demands one is a mystery known only to the author and the publisher.
            This biographical study is filled with a variety of fresh information. For example the author notes
                    that the western paintings of the period which stand as noteworthy reflections of the Hudson River
                    School of landscape painting may in reality be more the creation of the eastern lithographers than trans-
                        Mississippi
                     artists. Professor Hine recalls the significance of the guano craze in the
                    1850's when one of the primary tasks assigned the Navy was to search out likely quano
                    deposits whose powers were said to make a ship's mast sprout into leafy bowers. On occasion
                    the Pacific explorers armed themselves and demanded oriental cooperation in their scientific labors.
                    Such temerity will surprise only a few readers. Edward Kern's role embodies what was finest
                    and what was most sinister in the onrush of the occidental. Unfortunately the earnest desire to seek
                    out scientific truth never actually sublimated the Caucasian's overwhelming sense of
                    ethno-cultural superiority.
            Ted C. Hinckley, San Jose State College
            
         
         
         
            
               The Tragic Conflict: The Civil War and Reconstruction. Edited by William B.
                    Hesseltine. [American Epochs Series. Edited by Frank Freidel.] (
                        New York
                    : George Braziller, 1962. Pp. 528. Bibliography. $7.50.)
            Few men are as qualified by knowledge or experience to compile a Civil War anthology as is Professor
                    William B. Hesseltine of the University of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , and The Tragic Conflict reflects commendably his ability to
                    spotlight and situate one era amid the complicated maze that is the American heritage.
            The anthology itself is both balanced and comprehensive. Hesseltine has first gleaned excerpts from
                    forty-five different sources and then grouped them under six major headings: Disunion, The Armies,
                    Emancipation and the Negro, The Confederate Effort, Political Developments, and The Economic Impact.
                    Like previous anthologists, he has utilized such works as Grant's Memoirs
                    and Edward Pollard's Southern History of the War. Unlike previous
                    compilers, Hesseltine has also dipped into such excellent but little-known memoirs as John Will
                    Dyer's Confederate Reminiscences and Whitelaw Reid's After the War. The excerpts are from such varied sources as General Jacob
                    Cox's Military Reminiscences and the Poems of Paul Hamilton
                        Hayne. Yet in that variety, by skillful selection and deft commentary, Hesseltine has woven
                    a unique history of the years 1850–1877 that is heterogeneous in foundation and
                    homogeneous in bringing "the tragic conflict" into perceptible focus.
            However, and relatively speaking, historians will pay small attention to the anthology. Rather, they
                    will carefully analyze—and possibly denigrate—the editor's
                    twenty-one-page introduction; for here Hesseltine has interpreted the whole Middle Period in a
                    manner that is revisionary or revolutionary, depending largely upon one's background and/or
                    leanings.
            "There was little in the America of 1880," he states, "that had not been
                    foreshadowed in 1850." Then, snipping at the heels of the "repressible"
                    historians, Hesseltine concludes: "Perhaps, indeed, the Civil War was a desperate effort
                    [by the South] to stave off the inevitable." From this kickoff point Hesseltine roars
                    through the field of historical interpretation with the calmness of a starving Apache chasing
                    buffalos. Few established groups escape a poke from the Hesseltine pen. To the idolaters of Lincoln
                    goes the following: "Lincoln's 
                        Gettysburg
                     Address might have been delivered just as appropriately by Jefferson Davis, President
                    of the Confederate States of America." The nationalist school of historians comes in for a
                    blockbusting salvo. Throughout the Civil War, Hesseltine asserts, Lincoln, his "swollen
                    bureaucracy," and large business interests "battled against States'
                    Rights." In the end they not only destroyed the old Federal Union but, simultaneously,
                    "they destroyed one of the ancient bulwarks of human liberty—the power of the
                    states to protect the people."
            With the grass growing greener over Calhoun's grave because of the above statement,
                    Hesseltine then uncorks a powerhouse right on the Reconstruction school, especially that small
                    element of revisionists who see justification and godliness in the events of 1867–1876.
                    Reconstruction  was no reconstruction at all, Hesseltine states.
                    "It was in fact a new national construction," although it was highlighted for a
                    decade by "an era of unprecedented corruption" on the part of
                    "carpet-baggers, scalawags, and Radical Republicans." Hesseltine's
                    reference to "hate-mongering Radicals, intent upon destroying the South and prating about
                    freedom" hardly coincides with those modern writers who would have us accept the image of
                    "Lincoln and his loyal opposition."
            The whole introduction contains a multitude of sweeping generalizations. Many are true, some are
                    provocative, and several will no doubt invite long and loud rebuttals. This reviewer might agree
                    with Hesseltine's analysis of Robert E. Lee as "a supreme tactician sadly
                    deficient in concepts of strategy" if the axiom applied only to 
                        Gettysburg
                     and not to Lee's conduct throughout the war. Yet the statement hardly has
                    validity in the case of Chancellorsville, where Lee's daring in tactics and strategy
                    reduced his capable opponent, Joseph Hooker, to a state of blubbering disconcertion.
            The book has one glaring weakness, which is not the fault of the editor. The publisher, displaying
                    rare shortsightedness in a volume of this size, omitted an index and thus restricted appreciably
                    both the value and the usefulness of the total study. Only a superior anthology could withstand so
                    painful a wound. This is such a work, presented in a stimulating fashion that has made the name
                    Hesseltine synonymous with academic excellence.
            James I. Robertson, Jr., National Civil War Centennial Commission
            
         
         
            
               Service with the Sixth 
                            Wisconsin
                         Volunteers. By Rufus R. Dawes. Edited with an introduction by Alan T. Nolan.
                    (Madison: State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , for the 
                        Wisconsin
                     Civil War Centennial Commission, 1962. Pp. xv, 330. Illustrations, table, bibliography,
                    index. $5.00.)
            
               The Twenty-fourth 
                            Michigan
                         of the Iron Brigade. By Donald L. Smith. (
                        Harrisburg
                    , Pa.: Stackpole Company, 1962. Pp. 312. Maps, appendixes, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $6.50.)
            A happy aspect of the Civil War centennial observance has been the republication of esteemed but
                    relatively obscure books such as Colonel Dawes' which otherwise would have remained
                    collectors' items not available to the ordinary buff or to students remote from large city
                    or university libraries. And—whatever may be said about the centennial jubilees and
                    battle reenactments—contributions to the literature of the war like Mr. Smith's
                    give lasting value to the observance. Often regimental histories yield fresher, more detailed
                    pictures than are found in biographies of the celebrated leaders or the more popularly read and
                    applauded general histories.
            Dawes' Sixth 
                            Wisconsin
                        , long regarded a Civil War classic and indispensable to those concerned with
                    the formation, growth, and campaigns of the Army of the Potomac, is here offered as an old treasure
                    in a new chest. The publishers have performed a valuable 
                    service to the ever-growing corps of Civil War enthusiasts by permitting easier access to one of 
                        Wisconsin
                    's most cherished stories.
            Alan T. Nolan, historian of the Iron Brigade, of which this regiment was a part,
                    has not only given an enticing summary of the book in his Editor's Foreword, but has also
                    distinguished it among the vast number of regimental histories. The Sixth 
                        Wisconsin
                     was in the vortex of combat. With Colonel Dawes, the reader is on the firing line in
                    most of the eastern campaigns.
            Another characterizing feature of this book is the author's ability as soldier and writer.
                    He possessed objectivity, good power of observation, an understanding of people, and familiarity
                    with numerous other army units. Dawes was a noteworthy man of distinguished ancestry whose sons were
                    to include industrial leaders and a vice president. He wrote clearly, intimately, engagingly.
            The editor rightfully finds merit in the manner of presentation. The book is a combination of
                    immediate reactions and more seasoned judgments. Throughout are scattered letters, carefully
                    preserved by the colonel's wife, which give immediacy. Where error or hasty judgment
                    occurs, the editor's narrative supplies elucidation.
            A bit of Americana in the book which does not seem to have gained deserved notice in general war
                    histories relates to the visit of Julia Ward Howe to the Sixth near 
                        Washington
                     early in the war. She returned with the regiment from the army review at
                    Bailey's Cross Roads and heard the lusty-lunged tenor, Sergeant John Ticknor, lead the
                    singing about Jeff Davis and the sour apple tree while dews and damps of evening were falling about.
                    That march, according to Dawes, inspired her to write "The Battle Hymn of the
                    Republic." Her own account of the writing does not conflict, but tends to confirm
                    Dawes' story, though she does not mention this particular regiment or Sergeant Ticknor.
            None interested in that bitterly fought war will make a mistake in reading and owning this splendid
                    story of an intrepid regiment.
            
               The Twenty-fourth 
                            Michigan
                         of the Iron Brigade is the result of some twenty-five years of research by a
                    member of the 
                        Detroit
                     police force whose hobby has been devotion to the famed Twenty-fourth 
                        Michigan
                     Volunteers. Much of the reading was done during two long hospital stretches when author
                    Donald L. Smith was recovering from aggravated wounds.
            A veteran of both World War II and the Korean unpleasantness, Smith is familiar with combat, and that
                    word was almost the surname of the Twenty-fourth 
                        Michigan
                    . Born amid the strife of a street riot in 
                        Detroit
                    , it lived its entire existence in the battle blast.
            Perhaps its only peaceful assignment, and manifestly the greatest honor which came to it, was to be
                    selected to head the military procession, directly behind the hearse, at the funeral of President
                    Lincoln in 
                  Springfield, Illinois
               . Like the Sixth 
                        Wisconsin
                    , the Twenty-fourth 
                        Michigan
                     was an "Iron Brigade" unit.
            The word "famous" may be associated with this regiment discriminatingly. It had its
                    baptism of fire at 
                        Fredericksburg
                    , stood unwhipped at Chancellorsville, fought as gloriously at 
                        Gettysburg
                     as any regiment in any war at any time, inched through the Wilderness with Grant,
                    shared in the deadly combat at the "mule shoe" salient at Spotsylvania,  and supplied the covering fire when the mine was exploded at
                    Petersburg.
            The book is remarkable because of the splendid research, careful annotation, and great mass of
                    detailed information accumulated by Mr. Smith, a self-made historian who has demonstrated that the
                    urgency to write sometimes is more important than an academic background.
            Of interest to Indiana buffs is his treatment of Solomon Meredith, the 
                        Quaker
                     colonel of the Nineteenth Indiana who became brigadier general and commander of the
                    "Iron Brigade" succeeding John Gibbon. Historians have taken delight in
                    downgrading Meredith partly because Gibbon, a West Point graduate and good soldier, opposed his
                    elevation but mainly because he was backed assiduously by Indiana's war governor, Oliver P.
                    Morton, and was deemed a politician-general. Smith assures the reader repeatedly of
                    Gibbon's opposition but is a bit more generous with Meredith than are some other
                    chroniclers.
            The prose, while at times lacking the elevation of a finished or professional writer, is free of the
                    ornateness which strains much Civil War writing; it reads easily and does not intrude itself above
                    the telling of the story. Though it could scarcely be rated distinguished, the book as a whole is a
                    creditable achievement which gives the regiment the visibility to which it is entitled. The maps are
                    unusually good for a regimental history.
            Glenn Tucker, Flat Rock, 
                            North Carolina
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               Reconstruction: After the Civil War. By John Hope Franklin. The 
                            Chicago
                         History of American Civilization. Edited by Daniel J. Boorstin. (
                        Chicago
                    : University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1961. Pp. x, 258. Illustrations, chronology, suggested reading, index.
                    $5.00.)
            The tug of war between President Kennedy and Governor Ross Barnett of 
                        Mississippi
                     over the admission of a Negro student to the University of 
                        Mississippi
                     is a grim reminder that southern defense of secession and of the
                    "harmful" effects of Reconstruction still arouses heated emotions, especially in
                    parts of the Deep South. Daniel J. Boorstin, editor of The 
                            Chicago
                         History of American Civilization, of which this volume is one of the
                    chronological group, aptly states: "The Reconstruction era has properly been called the
                    bloody battleground of American historians" (p. vii). Professor Franklin, Chairman of the
                    History Department at 
                        Brooklyn
                     College and currently William Pitt Professor at 
                        Cambridge
                     University, has given a balanced account of Reconstruction, "Counter
                    Reconstruction," and "The Aftermath of
                    ‘Redemption.’"
            He concludes that, immediately after the Civil War, "the spirit of the South and the
                    principles underlying it were very much alive" (p. 53). This revival of the antebellum
                    spirit and the protests of Negro conventions against it contributed to the determination of Congress
                    to enforce its own plan of Reconstruction. Some northern states objected to granting Negroes the
                    right to vote, not only in the formerly seceded states but also in their own states. These actions
                    emboldened President Johnson to denounce Negro suffrage with new vigor in his message to  Congress in December, 1867. "Of all the dangers which our
                    nation has encountered," he warned, "none are equal to those which must result
                    from the success of the effort now making to Africanize the half of our country." Most of
                    the Negroes who were enfranchised by the Congressional Acts of 1867 did not possess the
                    qualifications to participate effectively in a democracy; but neither did large numbers of white
                    Americans enfranchised during the age of Jackson "or the large number of immigrants who
                    were being voted in herds by political bosses in 
                  New
                        York, Boston
               , and other Americans at
                    this time" (p. 87).
            Except for 
                        South Carolina
                    , Negroes did not dominate any of the conventions. With the aid of the much maligned
                    "carpetbaggers" and "scalawags," able Negro leaders proposed new
                    constitutions which contained many worthwhile provisions, some of which are still in effect. After
                    the adoption of these constitutions and the election of the state legislatures, many white
                    Conservatives implored God to deliver the state "from the horrors of Negro
                    domination" (p. 129). But "they held their heavy fire until admission had been
                    achieved" (p. 130). Only in the 
                        Mississippi
                     and 
                        Louisiana
                     legislatures did Negroes exercise considerable influence and even in those two states
                    their influence was not in proportion to their population. Some of the Negro members of the state
                    legislatures and of Congress were able men. Graft, which was common in some parts of the North,
                    prevailed also in the South, but very few Negroes profited from "big graft" such
                    as that associated with the development of railroads.
            "Counter Reconstruction" began, as in the case of the organization of the Ku Klux
                    Klan, before the era of "Negro domination." One of Professor Franklin's
                    most important conclusions is his conviction that "reconstruction could have been
                    overthrown without the use of violence" (p. 172). He agrees with Holland
                    Thompson's assertion that the New South began with the fall of the Confederacy (p. 181).
                    But the panic of 1873 left the South in such an economic plight that, as C. Vann Woodward pointed
                    out in Reunion and Reaction, northern Republicans and Democrats used offers of
                    financial assistance as part of the lever which made Southerners agree to the election of Hayes. Few
                    historians will quarrel with Professor Franklin's final conclusion that after
                    Reconstruction "the Union had not made the achievements of the war a foundation for the
                    healthy advancement of the political, social and economic life of the 
                        United States
                    " (p. 227).
            His bibliographical essay is of great value to those who wish to delve further into the
                    "bloody battleground of American historians."
            Rayford W. Logan, Howard University
            
         
         
            
               Farms in the Cutover: Agricultural Settlement in 
                            Northern Wisconsin
                        . By Arlan Helgeson. (Madison: State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , for the Department of History, University of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , 1962. Pp. vii, 184. Notes, bibliography, index. $4.25.)
            When the lumber companies finished ravaging the forests of northern 
                        Wisconsin
                    , they left as refuse the denuded landscape, pitted by acres of stumps. Joseph Schaefer
                    noted over forty years ago in 
                    Agriculture in 
                            Wisconsin
                        
                that the lumber interests were not even concerned enough to obtain valid
                    titles to much of the land so exploited (a factor in the slow settlement which the author of Farms in the Cutover has omitted).
            Quickly following the lumber barons were the land speculators (both individual and corporate) and the
                    railroad agents, bent on enticing the immigrants to wresting an existence from the cutover lands.
                        Farms in the Cutover is an account of the settlement in 24 counties of
                    northern 
                        Wisconsin
                    , 1870–1925.
            From the viewpoint of the speculator there seemed every reason for success. The vanishing of prime
                    agricultural land in 
                        Wisconsin
                     and the West by 1900, the population boom, and the anticipated back-to-the-farm
                    movement of World War I veterans all were factors which conjured visions of rapid land occupation.
            The author emphasizes the similarity in the process of land speculation in 
                        Wisconsin
                     and other frontier areas. Similarities there were, but in one significant way the
                    colonizers of the cutover were unusually fortunate. Few speculators have had such consistent
                    long-term support from the local newspapers, county and state governments (though the latter was
                    erratic), and most intriguing of all from the Agricultural School of the University. Academic Dean
                    Henry's 
                  
                            Northern Wisconsin
                        : A Handbook for the Homeseeker would have done credit to the most enthusiastic
                    land publicist.
            Support on a promotional basis was an asset; a huge liability, which no speculator or academician
                    readily admitted, was poor land. In fact it was not until 1922 that a state commissioner of lands
                    publicly confessed that the cutover region was "mighty poor for farming" (p. 88).
                    Deficient soil would have been enough eventually to thwart agricultural utilization but other causes
                    of the land colonizers' failure were not hard to find. The forecasted flow of population
                    never materialized; the long-term credit base was never established; ethics of land agents,
                    charitably stated, left something to be desired; clearing of land became a costly problem; and
                    finally, the coup de grace was administered by the agricultural depression of the
                    twenties.
            
               Farms in the Cutover is a thoroughly researched—testified by 60 pages of
                    notes and bibliography in a total of 184 pages—and carefully constructed work. Two
                    caveats suggest themselves: first, the style seems unnecessarily pedantic; second, many of the
                    individual promoters and corporate organizers remain shadowy figures, both as to personality and
                    operation. After making such observations it is traditional to the point of dogmatism to note that
                    the book under review is a contribution. With that judgment I have no quarrel; the profession is in
                    Helgeson's debt for a competent monograph.
            Gene M. Gressley, University of Wyoming
            
         
         
            
               Called Unto Holiness—The Story of the Nazarenes: The Formative Years.
                    By Timothy L. Smith. (
                        Kansas City
                    , 
                        Mo.
                    : Nazarene Publishing House, 1962. Pp. 413. Notes, index. $4.95.)
            The current publication of an official history commemorating the fiftieth anniversary of the Church
                    of the Nazarenes is a welcome and  masterful addition to the
                    annals of church history in the 
                        United States
                    . Publication was authorized by the Board of General Superintendents through a Church
                    History Commission established in 1955. Realizing "the founding fathers were rapidly
                    passing away," they saw the need to collect and file in a central repository "the
                    many significant documents scattered in all parts of the nation, 
                        Canada
                     and the British Isles."
            Of special significance was the intent of the superintendents in sponsoring this publication. Called Unto Holiness aspires not only to present the historical facts of the
                    formative years of the Nazarenes. It seeks also to inform its membership of the reasons for the
                    founding of their church and the heritage of its tradition. The superintendents rightly judged, as
                    stated in the Preface by Mr. Hugh C. Benner, that "it takes but one generation, ignoring or
                    distorting the spirit and basic issues, to change for all the future the course of any spiritual
                    enterprise." Of equal importance was the wisdom of assigning such a task to a competent
                    historian, a man capable equally of understanding sympathetically the movement being portrayed and
                    of critical and penetrating analysis.
            The Church of the Nazarene is, as Professor Smith carefully brings to our attention, a Wesleyan
                    denomination. Its early leaders were Methodist ministers; its staunchest supporters were Methodist
                    laymen; its doctrines were Wesleyan. In its present organization, following the leadership crisis of
                    1916–1917, it continues the episcopal tradition of Methodism, albeit under different
                    terms and titles. The great issue which gave rise to the Nazarene movement lay in the interpretation
                    of the doctrine of sanctification. Wesley believed there remained in man after conversion an inner
                    tendency to evil—an individual inheritance of "original sin." This
                    doctrine was espoused by early Methodism. Gradually, however, Methodist theological thinking grew
                    away from the active expression of this concept. Those who persisted in its acceptance formed
                    "holiness" groups—prayer bands, camp meetings, and "Holiness
                    Associations." It was from a post-Civil War sense of spiritual awakening, which Professor
                    Smith has termed a "Holiness Revival," that the Church of the Nazarene evolved.
            The story of the Nazarenes is told smoothly and effectively. The accounts of the "Holiness
                    Revival" in the 
                        United States
                     and the church question between 1880 and 1900, involving the dilemma of church loyalty
                    for the individual church member, are especially worthy. The treatment of the
                    "come-outers" during this period is of special merit. The evolution of
                    "holiness" thinking and action, as it led to the establishment of the Nazarenes as
                    a distinct group, is portrayed with great clarity. From its beginning in the East, through various
                    phases of inter-group affiliation, the movement is kept clearly defined in spite of complicated and
                    often ephemeral alignments. The deep feeling of divine inspiration is consistently maintained
                    without sacrificing candid analysis of conflicts and cross currents in polity and politics.
            One area of criticism might be offered. Although references are amply noted, there is no listed
                    bibliography. It would have been desirable to the student of church history if a selected
                    bibliography had been furnished precluding the necessity for laborious search of copious footnote
                    material in pursuit of sources. This does not deny,  however,
                    the merit of this publication both to the membership of the church and to the student of church
                    history.
            The story of "The Formative Years" ends with the epoch of the twenties. In
                    "A Forward Glance," appended to the last chapter of his work, Professor Smith
                    states that the story of the thirty years since the General Conference of 1933 would be "a
                    tempting one for us to try to tell." It is to be hoped that the admonition to
                    "yield not unto temptation" might be ignored in this instance.
            Robert J. Decker, University of 
                            South Florida
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               Rural Free: A Farmwife's Almanac of Country Living. By Rachel Peden. (
                        New York
                    : Alfred A. Knopf, 1961. Pp. 382. Illustrations. $4.95.)
            
               Father and His Town: A Story of Life at the Turn of the Century in a Small
                            Ohio River Town. By Wilma Sinclair LeVan Baker. (
                        Pittsburgh
                    : Three Rivers Press of the University of 
                        Pittsburgh
                     Press, 1961. Pp. xi, 143. Illustrations, appendix. $5.00.)
            A review should be objective, impartial, analytical, accurate, and just in order to present to
                    prospective purchasers or readers a guarantee that the contents of a book either will or will not
                    suit their thousand differing tastes. I confess inability to write such a review of Rachel
                    Peden's Rural Free because I profess subjective kinship with every phase
                    and facet of Rachel Peden's calendar from page one, September, to the end of the following
                    August. I knew the land whereof she writes before mechanization, consolidation, concentration of
                    resources, and decentralization of community and family life became oppressive; before swift
                    facilities, utilities, and futilities had progressed to degenerative degrees. Mrs. Peden has
                    succeeded in integrating the old with the new without significant losses.
            It is paradoxical that Rachel Mason Peden—though not a dirt farm product—could
                    penetrate the confusion of modernization and accurately find, fix, and portray processes and mores
                    inflexibly retained throughout the Indiana portion of the Elizabethan Belt. It is remarkable that
                    she could also, without apparent strain, reconcile super-accurate reporting with earthy facts yet
                    never offend the most fastidious nor omit the truths of round-the-calendar farm living.
            The author has a rare genius for concealing herself modestly behind the tapestry she weaves, emerging
                    briefly with humor tart as wild grapes a week early: "If there is anything more irritating
                    than the sound of a person eating an apple, it's the sound of him trying to eat it
                    quietly" (p. 102); with a short sentence flatly stating a fact every farmer knows but not
                    one in a million ever thought to put in words: "Snow changes the colors of a
                    farmscape" (p. 142); and with tenderness that eludes analysis as in the exchange with her
                    dog, Rose, while walking in the June moonlight (p. 312).
            Consonant with the author's self-submersion in the interests of fine reporting is the
                    emergence of Dick Peden as a man, a husband, a farmer, a father—never one, never two,
                    never three but ever all,  and ever himself. By character, by
                    love of the land, by quiet wit and humor, and, most of all, by Rachel Peden's appreciative
                    understanding, he will linger in the minds of sensitive readers as the source-spring of a book too
                    long awaited.
            The things the author knows! For instance: it has been more than fifty years since my ears heard
                    "ewe" pronounced "yo" (p. 360); that is what all of us
                    turn-of-the-century Hoosiers called it.
            And "shafts": diligent search in the big dictionary will produce
                    "thills" as a syononym but it will not give the pronunciation required to make
                    sense in Indiana. In Indiana, shafts are "shavvs." Thills were unknown in my youth
                    but "shavvs" everyone knew. Buggies had "shavvs," and between
                    them the buggy horse was hitched. Romantically, the buggy periodically repopulated Indiana. Rachel
                    Peden knows this but does not make it obtrusive (p. 211).
            
               Rural Free has been crafted by a pro reporter. It is restrained and understating,
                    the better to give generations to come a heritage worth exploring. When my generation is gone,
                    readers of Rural Free can glean metaphorical artifacts further to illuminate a
                    Golden Age of Indiana's literary greatness.
            In Father and His Town Wilma Baker has deftly avoided maudlin sentimentality and
                    bathetic nostalgia, substituting therefor an honest picture of a typical town that refused to run
                    true-to-type. And, without false pride or false modesty, the author makes clear to her readers that
                    a unique personage caused the refusal.
            That the unique personage was her father and thus gave her superior opportunities for observing his
                    deeds cannot be denied; but, that her love and admiration caused her to exaggerate his importance to
                    the town of 
                        Steubenville
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , is an untenable idea—the evidence of Dohrman James Sinclair's
                    influence is factual and enduring beyond question. And, without effusiveness, flag waving, or bible
                    thumping, the author manages to show her father preaching a powerful sermon on sane and decent
                    living by the rarest of all methods: precept and example.
            Perhaps without conscious intent, Mrs. Baker has analyzed present problems and evils by describing
                    the Good Old Days. She knew well that the Good Old Days were by no means all good: she neither
                    condemns nor falsely exalts them; she describes them accurately.
            And from the miasmas of metaphorical swamps of ignorance, now drained, emerge some perfumes that seem
                    to have been lost in the fumes of Progress: the code of living within one's means, the
                    pride of solving local problems locally, the pleasure of helping the needy or afflicted anonymously.
            Recently, we have been told from highest places that we should give generously to a mammoth charity
                    organization, and the reason stated was that increasing population had made it impracticable to
                    solve local aid problems locally! If I analyze correctly Mr. Sinclair's philosophy, such
                    high level dogma would have made the same amount of sense to him as saying that, whereas, the
                    hometown general practitioner with fifty years successful experience can set properly the broken leg
                    of a hometown boy stepped on by a small elephant, only  a high
                    priced doctor from wau is qualified to reduce a fracture caused by Jumbo.
            
               Father and His Town does not contain any stuffiness. There is ample humor but it is
                    never slapstick, cliché-tainted, nor pestilential. It leaves no sting and holds no
                    bitterness but, on the contrary, it lurks like a happy puppy and nips one gently, unawares. Chapter
                    8, "Eccentric People," is a delightful package and from it I cite a superb example
                    of finest dead pan: "The Baroness finally died, and poor Harry lived on for several years
                    in the Massillon Insane Asylum, which, while he wasn't actually insane, seemed a more
                    suitable place for him to end his days than in the 
                        Jefferson County
                     Poorhouse" (p. 93).
            This book will make you respect the central figure and admire the expertise of the author who
                    projects a fine image vividly.
            George W. Busbey, 
                  Grass Valley, 
                            California
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               An Affair of Honor: Woodrow Wilson and the Occupation of Veracruz. By Robert E.
                    Quirk. ([
                        Lexington
                    ]: University of 
                        Kentucky
                     Press, for the Mississippi Valley Historical Association, 1962.
                    Pp. vi, 184. Notes, essay on sources, index. $5.00.)
            Beginning with an apt title and ending with a refreshing essay on sources, Professor Quirk's
                    latest book is delightful to read. Furthermore it is a well-documented and interpretive historical
                    account of a curious chapter in Mexican-American relations.
            President Wilson's Mexican policy was both quixotic and enigmatic. His idealism led him to
                    oppose armed intervention, yet he ordered occupation troops into Latin American nations more
                    frequently than any other American president. And although Wilson, a former political science
                    professor, would recognize only moral governments where the leaders ruled with the consent of the
                    governed, he recognized Carranza, who gained power through revolution and held no elections at the
                    time of his recognition. Quirk portrays Wilson and his secretary of state, William Jennings Bryan,
                    as self-righteous, ignorant of foreign affairs, and distrustful of the career diplomats in the
                    foreign service. Such a situation in 
                        Washington
                     partially explains why a small incident in 
                        Mexico
                     became a casus belli and led to the occupation of Veracruz by 7,000 
                        United States
                     soldiers and marines.
            The incident at 
                        Tampico
                     in April, 1914, where American sailors were briefly jailed then released after an
                    apology by the Mexican commander, is well detailed in this book. Admiral Mayo, who subsequently
                    demanded that the Mexicans fire a twenty-one gun salute to the 
                        United States
                     flag, fares better here than in other accounts, in one of which he is relegated to the
                    "age of Santa Anna and the Prince de Joinville." Quirk gives us fresh insight into
                    the character of the American chargé d'affaires in 
                        Mexico
                     City, Nelson J. O'Shaughnessy, who saw in the 
                        Tampico
                     affair a chance to improve his position in the diplomatic corps. Effective use of the
                    O'Shaughnessy papers, Department of State records, contemporary newspapers, and personal
                         interviews enabled the author to unravel the maze of
                    diplomatic maneuvering following the military ultimatum.
            When diplomacy failed, the 
                        United States
                     resorted to armed force. The two chapters on the invasion and occupation of Veracruz
                    are a neat synthesis of a great amount of detailed information concerning military operations,
                    health measures, and legal, financial, and administrative problems. The United State forces were
                    evacuated some seven months after their entry into the Mexican port. Quirk's evaluation of
                    the occupation is summed up in one sentence, "Within a few weeks it was difficult to tell
                    that the Americans had ever occupied the city" (p. 171). He also points out that they left
                    without having received the controversial flag salute, nor did the occupation achieve its purpose of
                    preventing arms shipments to the unrecognized government of Huerta. Like the later abortive Pershing
                    expedition, this invasion of 
                        Mexico
                     was generally unsuccessful in achieving its goals, and it created a great deal of ill
                    will in Latin America.
            It is not difficult to see why the manuscript of this book earned Dr. Quirk the Mississippi
                        Valley Historical Association's Prize Studies Award in 1961. The narrative
                    is extremely clear, forceful, and well related to the larger scene of the Mexican Revolution and
                    Wilson's foreign policy. It will be enjoyed by the layman as well as the specialist.
            Robert Ryal Miller, 
                  
                            New Mexico
                         State University
            
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
