
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 69, Issue 2, pages 95-180. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:69+issue:2+year:1973&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Caleb B. Smith's Opposition to the Mexican War
            Hal W. Bochin∗
            
            The spring of 1846 found Democrats well in control of the national government. Supported by
                    majorities of 143 to 77 in the House and 31 to 25 in the Senate, President James K. Polk was
                    actively constructing national policy from the planks of his 1844 platform.1
                    Within a week of his inauguration he had fulfilled his pledge to offer annexation to 
                        Texas
                    .2 A promised reduction of tariff rates seemed imminent and Polk had
                    offered no encouragement to those who sought federal assistance for the construction of roads or
                        harbors.3 Members of the Whig opposition, traditional advocates of a high
                    protective tariff and of federal assistance for internal improvements, desperately needed an issue
                    with which to discredit the administration. When news reached 
                        Washington
                     on May 9, 1846, that American and Mexican forces had clashed on the Texas border,
                    congressional Whig leaders, typified by Representative Caleb B. Smith of Indiana, suddenly found
                    themselves involved in a rhetorical situation filled with promise and risk.4 If
                    they handled the war issue properly, they 
                  
                     ∗ Hal W. Bochin is assistant professor of speech
                            communication, California State University, Fresno.
                  
                     1 Joel H. Silbey, The Shrine of Party: Congressional
                                Voting Behavior, 1841–1852 (
                                Pittsburgh
                            , 1967), 67–71. For the Democratic platform of 1844, see Kirk H.
                            Porter and Donald Bruce Johnson, comps., National Party Platforms,
                                1840–1960 (
                                Urbana
                            , 1961), 3–4.
                  
                     2 Polk modified the message offering annexation which John Tyler had
                            dispatched the day before Polk assumed the presidency. Charles Sellers, James
                                K. Polk, Continentalist, 1843–1846 (
                                Princeton
                            , 1966), 216–17.
                  
                     3 The House and Senate approved a low revenue tariff on July 28, 1846,
                            and Polk vetoed a river and harbors bill on August 3, 1846. Ibid.,
                            468–73.
                  
                     4 The three constituents of a rhetorical situation (an exigence or
                        
               
                     might weaken the position of the President and his party. If
                    they acted injudiciously, they might commit political suicide.
            Since 1840 the Mexican government had been unwilling or unable to pay the more than $5
                    million in debts it owed to Americans.5 Furthermore, it had refused to accept
                    Folk's claim that the Rio Grande marked the border between Texas and 
                        Mexico
                    .6 When the government of Mariano Paredes refused to accept John
                    Slidell, the American minister sent by Polk to negotiate the debt and border questions, the
                    President felt he had "ample cause" for war.7 Then, even as a
                    war message was being prepared, word arrived that the small military force under General Zachary
                    Taylor, which Polk had sent to the Rio Grande to put pressure on the Mexican government, had been
                    attacked by Mexican troops. The initiation of hostilities brought the war message to Congress a day
                    earlier than anticipated,8 and on May 11, 1846, Polk formally asked Congress for
                    permission to enroll volunteers in a war begun "by the act of the Republic of 
                        Mexico
                    ."9
            
            With the major exception of John C. Calhoun, most Democrats lined up behind the President. Calhoun,
                    who argued that the existence of hostilities did not mean that the country was at war, since only
                    Congress could declare war, tried to limit the scope of the fighting. He feared that a conflict
                    between the North and South would arise if any territory were conquered from 
                        Mexico
                    .10 Although some northern 
                  urgent problem, an audience or decision maker, and constraints or factors which influence
                            both speaker and audience) are explained in Lloyd F. Bitzer, "The Rhetorical
                            Situation," Philosophy and Rhetoric, I (Winter, 1968),
                            1–14.
                  
                     5 For Polk's view of the debt question, see his message to
                            Congress of December 8, 1846, in James D. Richardson, ed., A Compilation of the
                                Messages and Papers of the Presidents, 1789–1897 (10 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1896–1899), IV, 473–79; or in Congressional
                                Globe, 29 Cong., 2 Sess., 4–5. Kohl states: "The great cause of
                            the war was expansion, the great pretext under which it worked was the claims."
                            Clayton Kohl, Claims as a Cause of the Mexican War (
                                New York
                            , 1914), 77.
                  
                     6 An excellent account of the border dispute between Texas and 
                                Mexico
                             is found in Frederick Merk, The Monroe Doctrine and American
                                Expansionism, 1843–1849 (
                                New York
                            , 1966), 130–60.
                  
                     7 Milo M. Quaife, ed., The Diary of James K. Polk (4
                            vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1910), I, 384–85.
                  
                     8
                            Ibid., 385–87.
                  
                     9 By adding the words cited as a preamble to the volunteer bill, the
                            Democratic leadership hoped to compel Congress to endorse the administration's
                            version of the cause of the war or vote against assisting the American forces on the Rio
                            Grande. Sellers, James K. Polk, 416.
                  
                     10 Margaret L. Coit, John C. Calhoun: American
                            Portrait (
                                Boston
                            , 1950), 440–44.
               
                     Democrats felt the real purpose of the war was to acquire
                    territory for the expansion of slavery, they did not openly manifest their opposition to it.11
            
            Unwilling to criticize the war while the fate of the American army was unknown, most Whigs joined the
                    Democrats in supporting the volunteer bill, which passed on May 12, 1846, by votes of 174 to 14 in
                    the House and 40 to 2 in the Senate.12 Led by Joshua R. Giddings of 
                        Ohio
                    , the Whig solons who voted against the bill in the House became the spearhead of
                    congressional opposition to the war.13 Throughout the two year conflict most of
                    the "immortal fourteen" refused to vote the men and supplies requested by the
                        President.14 Giddings even refused to support messages of congratulations
                    offered to victorious military commanders. He would not praise those "who have voluntarily
                    engaged in this work of slaughtering our race."15
            
            Moderate members of the Whig party, including Indiana's Representative Smith, sought a more
                    conservative and, they hoped, a more popular position. Newspaper editor John Defrees of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Indiana State Journal explained the strategy in a "confidential"
                    letter to Daniel Pratt: "So long as the war lasts, our flag and those who uphold it must be
                    sustained, while at the same time, those who placed that flag where it is, must be
                        denounced…."16 The Terre 
                  
                     11 Champlain W. Morrison, Democratic Politics and
                                Sectionalism: The Wilmot Proviso Controversy (
                                Chapel Hill
                            , 1967), 15. Boucher concludes that Polk was "more of a national
                            expansionist per se than the leader of a proslavery plot."
                            Chauncey S. Boucher, "In Re that Aggressive Slavocracy,"
                                Mississippi Valley Historical Review, VIII (1921), 30.
                  
                     12 The fourteen Whigs in the House voting against the volunteer bill
                            were John 
                                Quincy
                             Adams, George Ashmun, Joseph Grinnell, Charles Hudson, and Daniel King of 
                                Massachusetts
                            ; Henry Cranston of 
                                Rhode Island
                            ; Erastus Culver of 
                                New York
                            ; Luther Severance of 
                                Maine
                            ; John Strohm of 
                        Pennsylvania; Columbus
                     
                            Delano, Joseph Root, Daniel Tilden, Joseph Vance, and Joshua Giddings of 
                                Ohio
                            . Whig senators opposed to the measure were Thomas Clayton of Delaware and John
                            Davis of 
                                Massachusetts
                            . In the House 50 Whigs supported the bill and 13 abstained. In the Senate 16
                            Whigs voted for the bill and 6 did not vote. Congressional Globe, 29
                            Cong., 1 Sess., 795, 804.
                  
                     13 Giddings' leadership role is discussed in James Brewer
                            Stewart, Joshua R. Giddings and the Tactics of Radical Politics (
                                Cleveland
                            , 1970), 114. See also Joshua R. Giddings to Mrs. Laura Giddings, May 17, 1846,
                            Joshua R. Giddings Papers (Ohio Historical Society, 
                                Columbus
                            ).
                  
                     14 Whig voting patterns on war issues are analyzed in Silbey, Shrine of Party, 172–88. Giddings often referred to his group
                            as the "immortal fourteen." Joshua R. Giddings to J. Addison Giddings, May
                            30, 1846, January 13, 1848, Giddings Papers.
                  
                     15 Joshua R. Giddings, Speeches in Congress (
                                Boston
                            , 1853), 319.
                  
                     16 John Defrees to Daniel Pratt, April 17, 1847, Daniel Pratt Papers
                        
               
                     Haute Wabash Express, a Whig paper, condemned
                    the war, but added that "for the soldiers' sake we should have given the President
                    and his Cabinet almost anything they wished, and held them to a strict accountability before their
                    masters—the people."17 That was in fact the position taken
                    by Smith and most other congressional Whigs. They never ceased denouncing the war as unnecessary and
                    unconstitutional, but they were equally consistent in voicing their support for the men who were
                    waging it.18 Ill at the time of the voting on the first volunteer bill, Smith
                    later admitted that he would have voted for it because "[a]t that time our little army was
                    in a hostile country, surrounded by an enemy of greatly superior numbers."19
            
            Recently appointed to the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Smith's importance in the
                    national Whig party was on the rise. A member of the Indiana House of Representatives from 1833 to
                    1837 and again in 1840 and 1841, Smith had served as speaker from 1835 to 1837. In a triangular
                    election in 1841, he was defeated in his first bid for Congress, but he won a seat easily in 1843
                    and again in 1845.20 After waiting two months to make his first House
                    pronouncement about the conflict with 
                        Mexico
                    , Smith attracted an attentive congressional audience on July 16, 1846, when he
                    announced that although he had seen dissent "met by violent denunciation" and had
                    heard criticism of the President decried as "treason to the country" he would add
                    his name to the list of critics of the war.21
            
            Smith's position probably did not surprise his colleagues. Like Henry 
                        Clay
                    , whom he had long supported, Smith had opposed the annexation of Texas and had
                    predicted bloodshed 
                  (Indiana Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ).
                  
                     17
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Wabash Express, April 7, 1847.
                  
                     18 Frederick Merk, Manifest Destiny and Mission in
                                American History (
                                New York
                            , 1963), 96–98.
                  
                     19
                            Congressional Globe, 29 Cong., 1 Sess., Appendix, 1118.
                  
                     20 Born in 
                                Boston
                             on April 16, 1808, Smith was admitted to the Indiana bar in 1828 and began law
                            practice in 
                                Connersville
                            . He founded and edited the Indiana Sentinel in 1832. Biographical Directory of the American Congress, 1774–1971 (
                                Washington
                            , 1971), 1710.
                  
                     21 Quotations from the speech are taken from Congressional Globe, 29 Cong., 1 Sess., Appendix, 1115–18. The text may
                            also be found in Speech of Mr. Caleb B. Smith, of Indiana, on the Mexican War,
                                Delivered in the House of Representatives of the 
                                    United States
                                , July 16, 1846 (
                                Washington
                            , 1846) and in 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana, State Journal, August 19, 1846.
               
                     should it be accomplished.22 Furthermore, he
                    had strong support from his Fourth District constituents. The four counties comprising the district—
                        Fayette
                    , Henry, Union, and 
                        Wayne
                    —had consistently given majorities to Whig candidates for Congress since
                        1837.23 The Quakers of 
                        Wayne County
                    , and others who opposed war in general and the Mexican War in particular, comprised one
                    of the largest interest groups in Smith's district.24
            
            Although he was addressing the Democratically controlled House, Smith was in reality speaking
                    directly to the people of Indiana: "My constituents desire information…. I
                    intend to give them this information…." He divided his well organized speech
                    into two parts: the first, a point by point rebuttal of Folk's May 12 justification of the
                    war; the second, a listing of what he believed were the real reasons for America's
                    involvement in the conflict. Before attacking Polk, however, Smith attempted to strengthen his own
                    credibility. He sought to build rapport with his Hoosier audience by announcing that he would not
                    allow them to be "kept in ignorance…." The Democratic administration
                    had tried to keep the truth from the people, but he would give them the facts. Furthermore, he would
                    report the truth even "at the hazard of incurring a portion of that vituperation which has
                    been so liberally heaped upon others." Donning the mantle of the patriot, he recognized
                    "the obligation which patriotism imposes upon every citizen to defend his
                    country," but he would not support a war unjustly declared by the President. Thus armed as
                    a courageous and patriotic friend of the people, he began his attack on the President's
                    justification for the war.
            The strength of Smith's presentation rested in his careful examination of the debt owed by 
                        Mexico
                     to American citizens and in his analysis of the 
                        Texas
                    -
                        Mexico
                     boundary issue. In simple, direct language Smith offered an historical 
                  
                     22
                            Congressional Globe, 28 Cong., 2 Sess., 108–109, 372. For 
                                Clay
                            's position on Texas during the presidential campaign of 1844, see
                            Clement Eaton, Henry Clay and the Art of American Politics (
                                Boston
                            , 1957), 172–78.
                  
                     23 Dorothy Riker and Gayle Thornbrough, comps., Indiana
                                Election Returns, 1816–1851 (Indiana Historical
                                Collections, XL; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1960), 95–96, 99, 103.
                  
                     24 S. Meredith, comp., "Statistical Table of the Seventh
                            Census" (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1851), 22–30. For petitions against the war transmitted to Congress
                            by Smith, see Congressional Globe, 29 Cong., 2 Sess., 213, 272.
               
                    
                    
                  CALEB BLOOD SMITH
                  
                  CONGRESSMAN, 1843–1849
                  SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR, 1861–1863
                  Courtesy Indiana Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
               
                     narrative in which he reviewed the negotiations between 
                        Mexico
                     and the 
                        United States
                     on the debt question and found "nothing which would justify a resort to war,
                    or which can be urged as a pretext or excuse for the war in which we are engaged."
                    Referring to the debts owed by several states to Great Britain, he repeated a common Whig analogy
                    when he suggested that if debts justified war, "several sovereign States of this
                    Confederacy … would be in imminent danger of war."
            Smith added nothing new to the debate on the border question. However, in presenting his constituents
                    with his version of the circumstances surrounding the outbreak of hostilities, he selected the facts
                    most damaging to the administration and presented them in a clear and vivid manner. He refuted
                    Folk's assertion that the legislative acts of Texas showed that she had a title to the
                    disputed territory: "As well might he contend that we could acquire a title to the Canadas
                    by passing a legislative act declaring them to be ours." He asserted, but offered no
                    evidence, that 
                        Texas
                     "had no settlements beyond the Nueces…." He also argued
                    that an examination of the congressional debates on annexation would show that "the united
                    opinion of members" of both Houses was that the question was unsettled. Finally, he pointed
                    out that Santa Fe, east of the Rio Grande and thus claimed by Polk, contained "a Mexican
                    population…." The Mexican laws were "regularly administered
                    there" and all her officers were "supported by the Mexican Government."
            Although the Democratically dominated House Foreign Relations Committee had defended the
                    President's movement of General Zachary Taylor to the Rio Grande, Smith, a member of the
                    committee, vigorously dissented from its report. Charles J. Ingersoll, Pennsylvania Democrat and
                    chairman of the committee, claimed that hostilities had begun on American soil; but Smith declared
                    that eighteen months earlier Ingersoll had referred to the desert between the Nueces and the Rio
                    Grande as the border. In writing the committee's report, Smith asserted, the chairman had
                    largely relied upon "his imagination for his facts." Its readers must be wary:
                    "He who relies upon its conclusions will be as far from the truth as are many of the
                    statements which it contains. The cause must be bad which its friends find necessary  to defend by such means."25 Ingersoll was
                    at his seat during the speech and Smith "looked him in the face while he was holding him up
                    to scorn," but, reportedly, it was not in Ingersoll's "power to
                        blush."26
            
            Smith suggested that Polk had sent the troops to the Rio Grande "with the deliberate design
                    of acquiring 
                        California
                    , and perhaps other provinces of 
                        Mexico
                    ." Effectively using one of the few pieces of evidence offered in the speech,
                    Smith read a letter from William Marcy, secretary of war, to Colonel J. D. Stevenson of 
                        New York
                    , asking him to raise a regiment of volunteers composed of such men "as would
                    be likely to remain, at the end of the war, either in 
                        Oregon
                    , or any territory in that region of the Globe which may then be a part of
                        the 
                            United States
                        ." The letter showed that as early as June, 1846, the government felt
                    it would possess new territory in the West at the end of the conflict. Forecasting the future, Smith
                    expected that "[w]hen the war shall be ended, California and other northern provinces will
                    be in the possession of our armies. If she [
                        Mexico
                    ] cannot pay the money, our Government will demand a cession of her territory as an
                    equivalent…." He considered the administration "a Southern
                    one" and believed that "[t]he acquisition of California is desired as a means of
                    extending and perpetuating the power and influence of the South."
            To this point in the speech, Smith's remarks might well have been written by Joshua Giddings
                    or another member of the "immortal fourteen." Smith diverged from the radical Whig
                    position, however, when he declared that it was "not the desire of the Whigs in the House
                    to embarrass the Administration by withholding the supplies necessary to bring the war to a close.
                    Wanton and unjustifiable as they view the war, still we are engaged in it, and our army must be
                    sustained." Just as Giddings had clearly staked out the minority Whig position of denying
                    the President all men and supplies requested, Smith's statements exemplified the pragmatic
                    course preferred by the moderate majority of the party. Determined to make support for the troops
                    something quite apart from support of the war, he rejected the idealistic 
                  
                     25
                            Congressional Globe, 29 Cong., 1 Sess., Appendix, 1115–18.
                  
                     26
                            
                                Columbus
                            
                            Ohio State Journal, quoted in 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana State Journal, August 19, 1846.
               
                     notion of ending the fighting by withholding supplies.27
            
            Smith's views were well received on both the national and state levels. The 
                        Washington
                    , D.C., National Intelligencer reported that he had spoken
                    "with great earnestness and fervor in condemnation of the war." The 
                        Baltimore
                    
                    
                        
                            Patriot
                        
                     characterized the speech as "one of the most terrible phillipics against Mr. Polk
                    … uttered during the session." The Indiana State Journal
                    reprinted the speech, noting that the reporter for the 
                        Columbus
                    
                    Ohio State Journal had praised Smith's effort and that the speech
                    "was highly spoken of" by several other Whig papers in eastern cities.28 When Smith returned to Indiana in late August it was reported that large and
                    enthusiastic audiences greeted him at 
                  Richmond,
                            Centerville
               , Liberty, and 
                        New Castle
                    .29 The Whig 
                        Richmond
                    
                    Palladium asserted, probably more as wishful thinking than as fact, that
                    "Mr. Smith is listened to with much attention, and his exposition of the conduct of the
                    administration is awakening the eyes of the honest Democrats."30 The
                    success of Smith's speaking tour apparently upset some Democrats. A township Democratic
                    meeting in Waterloo resolved that "we believe the statements of C. B. Smith … to
                    be gross misrepresentations … his extraordinary labors to defame Mr. Polk are mere
                    political freaks designed to tell in his favor in a coming contest."31
            
            Smith returned to 
                        Washington
                     in December, 1846, to hear Polk's annual message, which contained the
                    magnificant understatement: "It is a source of high satisfaction to know that the relations
                    of the 
                        United States
                     with all other nations, with a single exception, are of the most amicable
                        character."32 The "single exception" forced the
                    President to make a lengthy defense of his policies toward 
                        Mexico
                     and of his claim that American territory had been violated. The significance of the
                    message, however, lay in Polk's public repetition of a charge which at least one Ohio paper
                    and probably other 
                  
                     27
                            Congressional Globe, 29 Cong., 1 Sess., Appendix, 1118.
                  
                     28
                            
                                Washington
                            , D. C., National Intelligencer, July 17, 1846; 
                                Baltimore
                            
                            
                        
                                    Patriot
                                , quoted in 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana, Palladium, July 28, 1846; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana State Journal, August 19, 1846.
                  
                     29
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Palladium, August 21 [sic], 25, September 8, 1846. The
                                Palladium for August 18, 1846, is misdated August 21 on the front
                            page.
                  
                     30
                            Ibid., September 8, 1846.
                  
                     31
                            
                                Connersville
                            , Indiana, Spirit of the Valley, December 10, 1846.
                  
                     32
                            Congressional Globe, 29 Cong., 2 Sess., 3.
               
                     Democratic journals had been making for some time and which now
                    received a new aura of credibility.33 In a statement which was quoted and
                    misquoted until the war's end, Polk complained that criticism of the war had been
                    extensively circulated in 
                        Mexico
                     and added: "A more effectual means could not have been devised to encourage
                    the enemy and protract the war than to advocate and adhere to their cause, and thus give them `aid
                    and comfort.' "34
            
            Smith responded to Polk on January 6, 1847, during debate on a bill before the House to raise ten
                    additional regiments. He had little to say about the bill itself, except to comment that he believed
                    its only object was a "vast increase of Executive patronage…." However,
                    it did provide him with an opportunity to express his views on "the existing state of our
                    public affairs"—of vital concern since he believed the government was
                    "daily and hourly sinking under the utter imbecility of the Administration which controls
                    it." Combining a rhetorical question with an analogy, Smith justified his remarks:
                    "Shall the mariner, when he sees the vessel, in which his life and that of all the crew is
                    embarked, plunging madly upon the breakers, through the wickedness or unskilfulness of the pilot,
                    sit still and hold his peace?" Besides leading the country into the war, Polk was waging it
                    poorly: "Our Democrat friends assured us that they would end the war … in ninety
                    days…. Well, sir, it is now about eight months since the war commenced, and although we
                    have expended many millions of dollars, and sacrificed several thousand lives, it seems to be
                    generally supposed that we are no nearer a peace than when it began." Smith's
                    language strengthened the force of his attack. He used many rhetorical questions, usually in groups
                    of three or four. Instead of relying on similes or metaphors, he painted vivid descriptions with
                    series of adjectives. He pictured the Mexican leader Santa Anna, for example, as
                    "cruel," "rapacious," "blood-thirsty,"
                    "remorseless," "avaricious," "perfidious," and
                    "deceitful."
            Smith's speech might be dismissed as mere political invective had he not turned from his
                    attack on Polk to look to the future and to offer a solution to the problem of how to 
                  
                     33
                            
                                Cleveland
                            
                            Plain Dealer, August 21, November 18, 1846.
                  
                     34
                            Congressional Globe, 29 Cong., 2 Sess., 3–4.
               
                     treat any territory which might be acquired from 
                        Mexico
                    . Smith admitted, what Giddings had claimed for some time, that "the question
                    of slavery, in connexion with the territory of which we are seeking to despoil 
                        Mexico
                    , cannot be avoided." Like Giddings, he believed the slavery question would
                    "admit of no compromise," but his idea of "no compromise"
                    differed radically from the notion of the tall spokesman for the Western Reserve. While Giddings
                    claimed that the North should rely on the Wilmot Proviso, a congressional measure to forbid slavery
                    in new territories, Smith, who consistently voted for the Proviso, desired to avoid the question of
                    new territories entirely. Afraid that a congressional debate on admitting new territories into the
                    Union would "come attended with a train of consequences more alarming than any which
                    attended the admission of Missouri into the Union," Smith offered a solution, saying,
                    "the only ground of safety—the only ground which will secure the peace and
                    harmony of the country—… is to keep the territory, with all the distracting
                    questions connected with it, out of the Union." Although he called it a "no
                    compromise" position, Smith had in fact offered middle ground between those forces who
                    would bring free territory into the Union through the Wilmot Proviso and those Southerners who
                    wanted additional slave territory. Neither side would lose if no new territory were annexed.
            Smith sat down to the approbation of his Whig colleagues who no doubt recognized the speech for what
                    it was—a partisan political attack designed to stimulate and to unite the Whig party for
                    the coming congressional and presidential elections. As in his first speech Smith offered no
                    constitutional argument against Polk's conduct, nor did he present the philosophical or
                    moral grounds on which he claimed the war was unjust. He preferred to engage in ad
                        hominem attacks against the President, whom he characterized as a
                    "despot" of "small mind" and "low cunning" who
                    engaged in "usurpation" and "imbecility." Even the apparently
                    genuine concern Smith evinced over the slavery question may have been an attempt to find in
                    rejecting any annexation common ground on which northern and southern Whigs could unite and thus
                    avoid the sectional division  which the Wilmot Proviso had rent
                    in the Democratic party.35 When Smith referred to "safe
                    ground," he probably thought of his party as well as of his nation.36
            
            Those who agreed with Smith found it "a very able and forcible, as well as an eloquent
                        speech…."37 The 
                        Cleveland
                    
                    True Democrat declared that Smith was "the ablest delegate from his
                    State." The 
                        Richmond
                    
                    Palladium and the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Indiana State Journal printed the entire address.38 On the
                    Democratic side, the 
                        Richmond
                    
                    Jeffersonian reported that Smith had been "blowing out in Congress
                    against the Mexican war." The editor thought the speech "would have been very
                    creditable to him had it been delivered before a Mexican Congress. It partakes of the wordy, windy
                    character of Mexican proclamations, speeches, etc."39 Giddings and
                    other House members who opposed the granting of any appropriations to carry on the war were again
                    disappointed that Smith had refused to add the weight of his prestige to their cause.40 However, Smith's position probably pleased his 
                        Quaker
                     constituents. He was selected to present to the House on January 27, 1847,
                    "the memorial of the Society of Friends, of Indiana, in yearly meeting assembled, praying
                    the adoption of such 
                  
                     35 Quotations from the speech are taken from Speech of
                                Mr. C. B. Smith, of Indiana, on the Mexican War. Delivered in the House of
                                Representatives of the U. States, Jan. 6, 1847 (
                                Washington
                            , 1847). The text may also be found in 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana State Journal, February 16, 1847, and in 
                                Richmond
                            
                            Palladium, February 2, 1847. A third person report of the speech is in Congressional Globe, 29 Cong., 2 Sess., 122–24. The Wilmot
                            Proviso was an amendment offered on August 8, 1846, by Representative David Wilmot, a
                            Democrat from 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , to a two million dollar appropriation bill. The amendment would have excluded
                            slavery from any territory acquired from 
                                Mexico
                             by virtue of the appropriation. The amended bill passed the House by a vote of
                            85 to 79, but the Senate adjourned for the session without voting on it. For the effects of
                            the Wilmot Proviso issue on the Democratic party, see Morrison, Democratic
                                Politics and Sectionalism, passim. Smith voted for versions of the Proviso on
                            February 15 and March 3, 1847. Congressional Globe, 29 Cong., 2 Sess.,
                            425, 573.
                  
                     36 One Whig editor saw political value in arguing against annexation
                            of any Mexican territory "because it affords common ground upon which the Whigs of
                            the North and South can stand and cooperate harmoniously." 
                                Columbus
                            
                            Ohio State Journal, August 18, 1847. Among southern Democrats, Calhoun
                            also supported avoiding the issue of territories. Coit, John C. Calhoun,
                            448.
                  
                     37
                            
                                Baltimore
                            
                            
                        
                                    Patriot
                                , quoted in 
                                Richmond
                            
                            Palladium, January 19, 1847.
                  
                     38
                            
                                Cleveland
                            
                            True Democrat, January 12, 1847; 
                                Richmond
                            
                            Palladium, February 2, 1847; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana State Journal, February 16, 1847.
                  
                     39
                            
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana, Jeffersonian, January 13, 1847.
                  
                     40 Compare 
                                Cleveland
                            
                            True Democrat, January 12, 1847, and Joshua R. Giddings to J. Addison
                            Giddings, January 23, 1849, Giddings Papers.
               
                     measure as will effect a speedy termination of the war with 
                        Mexico
                    ."41
            
            Although the Whigs of the Fourth District would not meet to select a congressional candidate until
                    April and the election would not be held until the first week of August, the Palladium, on February 2, without Smith's knowledge, "in accordance with
                    … the wishes of the Whigs of this district," announced him as a candidate for
                    reelection. In March, Democrat William Dailey issued a challenge that he would "deliver
                    speeches upon the war question" at 
                        Connersville
                    , Liberty, and 
                        Centerville
                    , and that "C. B. Smith, Esq., is requested to meet me at each of those
                    places." Dailey spoke as advertised, but a debate never occurred. Although Smith was
                    present in 
                        Connersville
                     and wished to reply, the Democrats claimed "it was a locofoco meeting and they
                    did not wish to hear Whig speeches."42
            
            The Whig convention confirmed Smith as the party's congressional candidate, and the
                    Democratic convention which met in May selected Charles H. Test, a popular attorney and former Whig,
                    to oppose him in the August election. The Whig journal in 
                        Cambridge City
                     described Test as "a gentleman, whose talents command our respect, and besides
                    this he preaches, occasionally, from a Whig text."43 Not everyone,
                    however, took Test's candidacy seriously. The Indiana State Journal
                    believed that Test was running for the fun of it: "He has so long been a candidate that he
                    can't live without the excitement."44 Smith confidently wrote
                    Giddings that he was "in the field and canvassing the district in opposition to the
                    war." He claimed that he would be reelected by as large a majority as he had ever had.45 Whig papers began to speculate that following Smith's triumph and a
                    nationwide Whig victory, Smith might be selected Speaker of the House.46
            
            The campaign halted for a two week period in late May 
                  
                     41
                            Congressional Globe, 29 Cong., 2 Sess., 272.
                  
                     42
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Palladium, February 2, March 30, April 13, 1847.
                  
                     43
                            Ibid., April 6, 1847; 
                                Cambridge City
                            , Indiana, 
                        
                                    Cambridge
                                 Reveille, May 16, 1847. Charles H. Test had been elected to the state
                            senate as a Whig in 1840. Riker and Thornbrough, Indiana Election Returns,
                            258.
                  
                     44
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana State Journal, June 29, 1847. Smith had defeated Test and two
                            others in the congressional election of 1843. Riker and Thornbrough, Indiana
                                Election Returns, 106.
                  
                     45 Smith to Joshua R. Giddings, May 21, 1847, Giddings Papers.
                  
                     46
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana State Journal, June 15, 1847.
               
                     and early June while Smith and Test represented clients at the
                    federal circuit court in 
                        Indianapolis
                    ,47 but once it resumed the Mexican War quickly became the main
                    issue between the candidates. Smith claimed that the war was "unconstitutionally
                    commenced—that it was unnecessary, and wrong—that it might and should have
                    been avoided, and that the President and his party are responsible for the evils the war has brought
                    upon the country. That Congress, at any early day, should bring the war to a close, and tender to 
                        Mexico
                     an honorable peace, disclaiming any wish to dismember 
                        Mexico
                     of any of her territory." In the Palladium's biased
                    view Judge Test's speech was "fight, fight, fight! That the Mexicans had committed
                    great outrages upon the commerce of this country, and they should be punished for it…. In
                    short, that the war was all right, and should be vigorously prosecuted until 
                        Mexico
                     shall sue for peace, and will pay all indemnities due American citizens … in
                    money or in land."48
            
            For four weeks Smith and Test made joint appearances throughout the Fourth District, speaking at
                            
                  Hagerstown, Williamsburg, Centerville
               ,
                    and numerous other small Indiana farming communities. Test, on the one occasion fully reported,
                    opened and closed the debate with half hour speeches, bracketting Smith's one hour
                        presentation.49 On the stump, Smith attacked the war with the same vigor he
                    had demonstrated in his House speeches; Test upheld the President and his party's platform
                    which highly approved "of the course of the present democratic administration in the
                    vigorous prosecution of the war against 
                        Mexico
                    , and of ITS ACTS GENERALLY."50 Test referred to critics of
                    the war as "broadbrims," and with "astonishment" the 
                  
                            Cambridge
                         Reveille quoted or perhaps misquoted him saying, "should
                        the Priests approve of guerrilla warfare against our troops in the south, he [Test] would go in for robbing every church in 
                            Mexico
                        
               !!!"51 The possibility that a popular third party
                    candidate might enter the race and draw off some of Smith's abolitionist 
                  
                     47
                            
                                Cambridge City
                            
                            
                        
                                    Cambridge
                                 Reveille, June 9, 1847.
                  
                     48
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Palladium, July 20, 1847.
                  
                     49
                            Ibid., June 22, 29, July 6, 13, 20, 27, 1847. The description of the
                            debate is in ibid., June 29, 1847.
                  
                     50
                            Ibid., June 15, 1847. See also ibid., May 25, June 29,
                            1847.
                  
                     51
                            
                                Cambridge City
                            
                            
                        
                                    Cambridge
                                 Reveille, June 9, 16, 1847.
               
                     support, as had occurred in 1845 when the Liberty party offered
                    a candidate, posed the only serious threat to his reelection.52 The Liberty
                    party did nominate Thomas R. Stanford in 1847, but he declined the nomination, expressed his
                    determination to vote for Smith, and urged his friends to do the same.53
            
            As the campaign closed, the 
                        Richmond
                    
                    Jeffersonian called for Test's election "not because he is a
                    democrat, nor because he has claims on the democracy of the 4th district, but merely, because he is
                    the advocate of his country's cause, the vindicator of her honor, the sworn foe of her
                    enemy, and the supporter of her rights."54 The editor of the rival Palladium simply asked: "Are we for peace or war?"55 If, as both sides claimed, a vote for Smith was a vote against the war, then the Fourth
                    District voted against the war. On August 2, 1847, Smith collected 4,988 of the ballots cast as
                    against 3,540 for Test, an increase of two per cent over Smith's winning margin in 1845
                    when there had been three candidates in the field.56 Following his victory Smith
                    campaigned for antiwar Whig candidates in other states. The Democratic press in Robert
                    Schenck's Ohio district did not appreciate Smith's presence: "Caleb B.
                    Smith, of Indiana, a man of ability, and an effective public speaker, certainly, but who ought, in a
                    local election, to have remained in his own bailiwick, is to speak again."57
            
            On September 27 Smith brought Schenck and Senator Tom Corwin of Ohio to an antiwar rally in 
                        Richmond
                     attended by "[a]n immense number of the citizens" from Ohio and
                    Indiana. Corwin delivered the main address, but Smith added "a few brief but eloquent
                        remarks."58 Seeing a revival of the Whig party across the country,
                    Smith thought his own chances of becoming speaker of the house were "reasonably
                    fair," and he attempted to gain the support of a solid Indiana 
                  
                     52
                            Ibid., July 14, 1847; Riker and Thornbrough, Indiana Election
                                Returns, 111.
                  
                     53
                            
                                Cambridge City
                            
                            
                        
                                    Cambridge
                                 Reveille, July 28, 1847; 
                                Richmond
                            
                            Palladium, July 20, 1847.
                  
                     54
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Jeffersonian, June 16, 1847, quoted in 
                                Richmond
                            
                            Palladium, July 6, 1847.
                  
                     55
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Palladium, July 27, 1847.
                  
                     56 Riker and Thornbrough, Indiana Election Returns,
                            111, 115.
                  
                     57
                            
                        Dayton, Ohio
                     , Western Empire, September 23, 1847.
                  
                     58
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Palladium, September 28, 1847.
               
                     delegation.59 Searching for support for his
                    candidacy from Whigs opposed to the presidential aspirations of Zachary Taylor—but not
                    wanting to appear too eager for the position—Smith wrote Giddings: "I am anxious
                    to see an antiwar, anti-Taylor, Northern Whig elected Speaker and if our friends shall conclude they
                    can be more likely to succeed with any man besides myself, I will cheerfully acquiesce."60 Smith attracted strong western newspaper support for his candidacy. Both the
                        Indiana State Journal and the Ohio State Journal endorsed
                    his selection, and the 
                        Cleveland
                    
                    True Democrat urged: "Let those who are determined to maintain the
                    Proviso stand firm for Caleb B. Smith, of Indiana, and he will be elected. He is every way qualified
                    in head, heart, and experience, for that station."61 Smith's
                    friends were disappointed, however, when the Whig caucus gave Robert C. Winthrop of Massachusetts a
                    thirty-two vote majority over Smith and, eventually, the speaker's chair.62 Test graciously wrote Smith that he would like to have seen a Democrat elevated to the
                    speakership, "but since that could not be under the circumstances it would have gratified
                    me that our District should have been honored with the office."63
                    Smith's sister reported that one friend felt he had not been selected because he had come
                    out "so bitterly against the war."64
            
            With the first session of the Thirtieth Congress under way, Smith wrote Pratt on January 25, 1848,
                    that a rumor of a peace with 
                        Mexico
                     was circulating throughout 
                        Washington
                     and that he believed there was some foundation to the rumor.65
                    Nevertheless, on February 3 he delivered his third major address on the war which was "unnecessarily and unconstitutionally commenced by the
                    President…." Without 
                  
                     59 Smith to Elisha Embree, August 26, 1847, Elisha Embree Papers
                            (Indiana Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ).
                  
                     60 Smith to Joshua R. Giddings, September 3, 1847, Giddings Papers.
                  
                     61
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana State Journal, September 7, 1847; 
                                Columbus
                            
                            Ohio State Journal, September 14, 1847; 
                                Cleveland
                            
                            True Democrat, December 1, 1847.
                  
                     62 Richard Thomas, "Caleb Blood Smith: Whig Orator and Politician—
                                Lincoln
                            's Secretary of Interior" (Ph.D. dissertation, Department of
                            History, Indiana University, 1969), 47; Stewart, Joshua R. Giddings and the
                                Tactics of Radical Politics, 135–36, 141–42.
                  
                     63 Charles H. Test to Smith, December 19, 1847, Caleb B. Smith Papers
                            (Library of Congress, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C., copies in Indiana Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ).
                  
                     64 Sarah Hankins to Smith, December 18, 1847, Smith Papers.
                  
                     65 Smith to Daniel Pratt, January 25, 1848, Pratt Papers.
               
                     wasting time on the question of the origin of the war, a
                    subject which "has been very ably and thoroughly discussed, not only at this session, but
                    during the last Congress," Smith chose to examine the cost of the war and the
                    war's effect on the national debt. As in his previous speeches, he asserted that he spoke
                    to reveal information which the government had attempted to withhold from the public. Using official
                    Treasury Department figures, Smith undoubtedly bored many of his colleagues by detailing federal
                    costs to the penny. He made the important point, however, that throughout the war the administration
                    had consistently underestimated expenses and overestimated revenues. In the 1846–1847
                    fiscal year a $19,000,000 error had been made. "Are we," Smith
                    wondered, "to attribute it to the errors of the Secretary of the Treasury ….
                    [or] has there been an attempt to cover up and conceal from the country the enormous expenses of the
                    war, and the alarming national debt it is creating?" Smith's arguments about the
                    dangers involved with being in debt would have had great influence with westerners who had recently
                    seen the unhappy effects of debt in their own states.
            In words which show the hazards of making political forecasts, Smith predicted that no peace treaty
                    would be signed until after the presidential election in November so that as much Mexican territory
                    as possible could be taken. Apparently he did not completely accept the peace rumors he had
                    mentioned in his letter to Pratt, and he had no way of knowing that the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo
                    had been signed in 
                        Mexico
                     the day before he rose to speak. Smith concluded with the plea he had made in his
                    second speech, that no Mexican territory be taken: "If we can succeed in wringing from the
                    distress and suffering of 
                        Mexico
                    , a cession of more of her territory, every foot which we thus acquire will prove a
                    curse and a calamity to us."66
            
            
               
                  66 Quotations from the speech are taken from Speech of Mr.
                            Caleb B. Smith, of Indiana, on the War and Its Cost Delivered in the House of
                            Representatives of the U. States, February 3, 1848 (
                            Washington
                        , 1848). The text may also be found in 
                            Cambridge City
                        
                        
                     
                                Cambridge
                             Reveille, March 8, 1848, and in 
                            Richmond
                        
                        Palladium, March 1, 1848. For a third person report of the speech, see Congressional Globe, 30 Cong., 1 Sess., 294–97. The debt issue was
                        probably very much alive to the people of Indiana, who had seen their state bankrupted in the
                        late 1830s and early 1840s by an over ambitious program of internal improvements construction.
                        See John D. Barnhart and Donald F. Carmony, Indiana: From Frontier to Industrial
                            Commonwealth (4 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1954), I, 333–38.
            
            
            Whigs reacted favorably to Smith's address. A friend wrote: "Your Speech
                    … has just been published in the [
                        New Castle
                    , Indiana,] `Courier' at full length and gave general Satisfaction to the
                        Whigs."67 The 
                  
                            Cambridge
                         Reveille and the 
                        Richmond
                    
                    Palladium also published the speech.68
            
            News of the signed peace treaty soon reached 
                        Washington
                    , and on February 22 Polk submitted it to the Senate where it was ratified on March
                        10.69 The war was over, but Smith's antiwar activities and his
                    determination to avoid a sectional split within the Whig party placed him in opposition to Zachary
                    Taylor's nomination for the presidency. To long time friend Allen 
                        Hamilton
                    , Smith confided that "if Gen Taylor shall adhere to his present position and
                    refuse to give his opinions upon the war and other great questions … our Convention ought
                    not and will not nominate him…."70 Taylor's only
                    claim to support rested on his prosecution of a war that the Whigs opposed. Smith preferred Justice
                    John McLean of the Supreme Court, whom he felt would be a compromise candidate for supporters of
                    both Taylor and Taylor's principal rival, Henry 
                        Clay
                    .71 Smith energetically supported McLean at the Whig national
                    convention in 
                        Philadelphia
                    , but the Whigs ultimately nominated Taylor.72 In spite of his once
                    having claimed that running Taylor was "absolutely absurd and ridiculous," Smith
                    stumped Indiana for the Whig ticket.73 In a public letter to his constituents in
                    which he discussed Taylor's character, he reduced the issues to the single one of whether
                    to elect a Democrat who would continue the Polk policies or a Whig who would not. From that point of
                    view, he could claim that it was "entirely consistent" with his principles
                    "to support General Taylor against General [Lewis] Cass."74
            
            Following the national Whig victory, many Hoosiers and Smith himself thought that Taylor would
                    appoint him postmaster 
                  
                     67 Joshua Holland to Smith, February 27, 1848, Smith Papers.
                  
                     68
                            
                                Cambridge City
                            
                            
                        
                                    Cambridge
                                 Reveille, March 8, 1848; 
                                Richmond
                            
                            Palladium, March 1, 1848.
                  
                     69
                            Congressional Globe, 30 Cong., 1 Sess., 456n.
                  
                     70 Smith to Allen 
                                Hamilton
                            , February 16, 1848, Allen 
                                Hamilton
                             Papers (Indiana Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ).
                  
                     71 Smith to 
                                Hamilton
                            , March 26, 1848, ibid.
                  
                  
                     72 Thomas Dowling to John McLean, June 7, 1848, John McLean Papers
                            (Library of Congress, 
                                Washington
                            , D. C.).
                  
                     73 Smith to Joshua R. Giddings, September 3, 1847, Giddings Papers.
                  
                     74
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Palladium, July 4, 1848.
               
                     general. A letter writing campaign for Smith was quickly
                    organized and his qualifications were sent to leading Whigs and to friends of Taylor across the
                    country. John C. Crittenden received a petition from sixty-nine Indiana Whigs asking his support in
                    finding Smith "some position in the Administration of the Government at 
                        Washington
                    ."75 Smith asked friends for newspaper support and Schuyler
                    Colfax secured for Smith "the unanimous recommendation of 
                        Michigan
                    's prominent Whigs … & also many from Illinois and 
                        Wisconsin
                    ." Colfax added: "Mr. Smith says he may not need any of these
                    recommendations, but as Colonel E[dward] D. Baker of 
                        Ill[
                    inoi]s is coming on with a pocketful, he thinks it best to be fully armed."76 At least one supporter believed so strongly that Smith would be selected for
                    the cabinet that he sent him a request for a patronage position.77 Unfortunately
                    for Smith, Baker, and a host of other potential officeholders, Jacob Collamer of Vermont became
                    postmaster general.78 Smith, ironically, received an appointment to the Board of
                    Commissioners set up by Taylor to adjust American claims against 
                        Mexico
                    .
            Smith's switch from opposition of Taylor to support of his candidacy did not go unnoticed.
                    Giddings complained: "Caleb B. Smith and [Richard W.] Thompson have manifested such
                    detestable servility that I think neither will again be elected. I intend if I speak again to place
                    Smith on the shelf. I am told I have the power, if so I will try to exert it."79 Giddings never tested his power since neither Thompson nor Smith ran for
                    national elective office after 1847.80
            
            Political considerations seemingly influenced Caleb Smith's antiwar rhetoric as much as did
                    the moral principles he espoused. Having waited more than two months to deliver a House speech about
                    the war, he spurned the opportunity to join those Whigs who based their opposition to the 
                  
                     75 Sixty-nine citizens of Indiana to John C. Crittenden, December 26,
                            1848, John C. Crittenden Papers (Library of Congress, 
                                Washington
                            , D. C.).
                  
                     76 Schuyler Colfax to Pratt, January 29, 1849, Pratt Papers.
                  
                     77 John Defrees to Smith, February 27, 1849, Smith Papers.
                  
                     78 Holman 
                                Hamilton
                            , Zachary Taylor: Soldier in the White House (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1951), 152.
                  
                     79 Joshua R. Giddings to J. Addison Giddings, January 23, 1849,
                            Giddings Papers.
                  
                     80
                            Biographical Directory of the American Congress, 1710, 1811.
               
                     conflict on principle.81 Instead, like most
                    members of his party, he adopted those positions which he felt would enlist the most popular
                    support. He condemned Polk for initiating the war, but supplied and praised the soldiers who waged
                    it. Fearing that the slavery question might disrupt the Whig party, he sought to avoid the issue by
                    advocating that no territory be taken from 
                        Mexico
                    . When most Whigs favored the presidential candidacy of a man whom Smith felt
                    unqualified for the office, he, nevertheless, campaigned vigorously for him. John Defrees may have
                    summarized Smith's feelings and those of many another Whig when he described the notion of
                    refusing any support to an unjust war as "pure, unadulterated
                    Christianity, but, unfortunately, that has very little to do in determining
                        elections."82
            
            
               
                  81 Smith's biographer judges that in time of crisis Smith often
                        proved "indecisive and vacillating." Thomas, "Caleb Blood
                        Smith," 229–30.
               
                  82 Defrees to Pratt, April 17, 1847, Pratt Papers. Defrees was commenting
                        on a speech by Senator Thomas Corwin of Ohio in which Corwin claimed that if the war deserved
                        condemnation so, too, did the activities (such as supplying troops) which prolonged it. The
                        speech is in Congressional Globe, 29 Cong., 2 Sess., Appendix,
                        211–18.
            
         
         
         
            Indiana Negroes and the Spanish American War
            Willard B. Gatewood, Jr.∗
            
            From the beginning of the Cuban revolt against Spanish rule in 1895, Negroes in Indiana as elsewhere
                    in the 
                        United States
                     manifested considerable sympathy for the rebel cause. Confronted by a rising tide of
                    Jim Crowism and oppression themselves, black citizens had little difficulty in equating the Cuban
                    struggle with their own quest for justice. No less important in explaining their sympathy for a free 
                        Cuba
                     was the belief that a "racial affinity" existed between black
                    Americans and a majority of the island's inhabitants.1 The two leading
                    black newspapers in Indiana consistently called attention to the conspicuous role played by
                    "Colored Cubans" in combatting Spanish tyranny. The coverage of the insurrection
                    in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Freeman, an editorial mouthpiece for black Republicans, was lavish in its praise
                    of "colored" rebel leaders such as Antonio Maceo and Quintin Banderas. Maceo, in
                    fact, was described as a noble patriot "around whom the aspiring Negro may twine his
                    brightest hopes for the future." The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    World, one of the few black Democratic newspapers in the nation, noted that the
                    absence of race prejudice 
                  
                     ∗ Willard B. Gatewood, Jr., is professor of history at the
                            University of 
                                Arkansas
                            , Fayetteville. The author acknowledges the financial assistance of the American
                            Philosophical Society. Appreciation is expressed to Mr. L. G. Meldrum of the Archives
                            Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , and to Dr. Elfrieda Lang, Curator of Manuscripts, Lilly Library, Indiana
                            University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , for their generous help.
                  
                     1 George P. Marks, III, ed., The Black Press Views
                                American Imperialism, 1898–1900 (
                                New York
                            , 1971), 7–8.
                  
                     2
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, August 3, September 7, 14, 1895, March 7, April 11, July 25,
                            August 7, 1896; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            World, April 2, 1898.
               
                     among "the Cuban patriots" would make the
                    island "an inviting field for emigration from the 
                        United States
                    " after independence.2
            
            In February, 1898, the sinking of the U.S.S. 
                        
                            Maine
                        
                     in Havana Bay prompted many Americans to demand a war with 
                        Spain
                     to avenge the national honor. The reaction to this clamor by the two black editors in 
                        Indianapolis
                     was typical of the Negro press in general.3 Reluctant to oppose
                    anything that would enable their "colored cousins" in 
                        Cuba
                     to achieve freedom, both the Freeman and the World
                    nonetheless viewed with considerable skepticism the prospect of armed intervention by the 
                        United States
                    . Steadfast in the belief that "
                        Cuba
                     should be relinquished to the Cubans by 
                        Spain
                    ," the Freeman emphasized that the national honor could
                    "be conserved by the arbitrament of the pen quite as well as by the sword." The
                    prevailing sentiment among "sober and reflective Americans," according to the
                    editor, was "on the side of peace rather than war with 
                        Spain
                    ." For black Americans a conflict with 
                        Spain
                     over 
                        Cuba
                     might well serve to divert attention from the pressing race problem at home without
                    actually alleviating the oppressed condition of the Cubans. In spite of all the rhetoric about
                    humanitarianism, some Negroes found it difficult to believe that a nation which tolerated mob
                    violence against its own colored citizens could be expected to display much humanity toward colored
                    Cubans. If war came, they predicted, it would be a Jim Crow war resulting in a Jim Crow empire.4
            
            Throughout the 1890s Negroes in Indiana—who constituted a little more than two per cent of
                    the state's total population—were intimately acquainted with the vagaries of Jim
                    Crowism. But despite their encounters with the omni-present color line and the increasing incidence
                    of mob violence in the state during the decade, black Indianians at least enjoyed certain
                    educational opportunities denied Negro citizens in the South and suffered no legal restraints upon
                    their exercise of the franchise. Even though the black vote was small and was concentrated in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Evansville
                    , the state's two largest cities, and in towns along the 
                        Ohio
                    
                    
                  
                     3 Marks, Black Press Views American Imperialism,
                            18–32.
                  
                     4
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, March 5, 12, 19, April 23, 1898; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            World, April 2, May 14, 1898.
               
                     River, it was nonetheless significant in a state where the two
                    major parties were nearly evenly matched in strength. Convinced that "the Republicans were
                    dependent upon the Negro vote for carrying the state," the Democrats encouraged political
                    independence among black voters and tried in vain to entice them away from the party of 
                        Lincoln
                    . In politics, as in other areas of Negro life in Indiana, leadership was furnished
                    largely by the small black middle class which existed in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . In 1898, the capital city, with its population of almost 16,000 black citizens, was
                    unquestionably "the principal center of Negro activities in the state."5
            
            As war with 
                        Spain
                     became imminent, Negro journals in 
                        Indianapolis
                     concluded that black citizens could not afford to risk the repercussions certain to
                    result from outright opposition to the conflict. George L. Knox, the influential editor of the Freeman, explained that even though Negroes had little reason to be patriotic
                    because of their treatment in the 
                        United States
                    , they would perform their duty as citizens in the event of war. 
                        Knox
                    's rival, Alexander E. Manning of the World, suggested that
                    by taking up arms to defend the nation's honor Negroes might "so bear themselves
                    … as to mitigate some of the prejudice and injustice meted out to them." Both
                    editors contended, however, that Negroes must be allowed to participate in the military effort in a
                    manner that would elevate their status rather than perpetuate a racial caste system.6 This view, shared by black citizens throughout the 
                        United States
                    , found expression in a nationwide demand for Negro officers to command Negro troops.7 According to 
                        Knox
                    , previous experience had taught black people that too much humility only brought
                        humiliation.8 But the movement to have Negroes commissioned as officers ran
                    counter to the views of the War Department and white Americans in general who held that blacks made
                    good soldiers only if commanded by white officers.9 Since it was anticipated 
                  
                     5 Emma Lou Thornbrough, The Negro in Indiana: A Study of
                                a Minority (Indiana Historical Collections, XXXVII; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1957), 206–207, 227–30', 298.
                  
                     6
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, March 19, April 23, 1898; 
                                Indianapolis
                             World, May 14, 1898.
                  
                     7 Willard B. Gatewood, Jr., "Smoked
                                Yankees" and the Struggle for Empire: Letters from Negro Soldiers,
                                1898–1902 (
                                Urbana
                            , 1971), 10, 103; Marks, Black Press Views American
                            Imperialism, 33–50.
                  
                     8
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, April 23, 1898.
                  
                     9 See Marvin E. Fletcher, "The Negro Soldier and the 
                                United States
                            
                  
               
                     that state militias would be mobilized if war were declared,
                    Benjamin T. Thornton—a well known black detective on the 
                        Indianapolis
                     police force—and other spokesmen for the black community in Indiana launched
                    efforts early in March, 1898, to insure that the two Negro units in the state's militia
                    would not only be allowed to demonstrate their patriotism as soldiers but also to go into war under
                    "their own officers."10
            
            In spite of a state constitutional provision restricting the Indiana militia to white males,11 two Negro companies from 
                        Indianapolis
                     with complete rosters of Negro officers belonged to the Indiana National Guard, as the
                    militia had come to be called after the Civil War. Organized in 1882 and 1885, these companies were
                    integrated into the regimental structure of the guard and on several occasions had acquitted
                    themselves "with honor" during civil disturbances, especially during a strike in
                        1894.12 In 1896, however, Democratic Governor Claude Matthews,
                    "after much consideration," detached the Negro units from two otherwise all white
                    regiments and designated them as "separate" companies, known as Company A and
                    Company B. By 1898 the senior Negro officer in the national guard was Captain Jacob M. Porter of
                    Company A. A native of 
                        Kentucky
                    , with little formal education, Porter was a messenger in the Indiana National Bank of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Because of his service in the Civil War, he had joined the national guard in 1887 with
                    the rank of lieutenant. The commander of Company B was Captain John J. Buckner who had entered the
                    guard in 1889 as a private.13
            
            
               Army, 1891–1917" (Ph.D. dissertation, University of 
                            Wisconsin
                        , 1968), 129–31.
               
                  10
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, March 4, April 2, 1898. On Benjamin T. Thornton, see Thornbrough, Negro in Indiana, 360.
               
                  11 The only racial distinction left in the Indiana constitution after the
                        adoption of a series of amendments in 1881 concerned the militia article, from which the word
                        "white" was not removed until 1936. See Thornbrough, Negro in
                            Indiana, 250n.
               
                  12 The two Negro militia companies were among those units mobilized for
                        service during the coal miners' strike in 
                            Sullivan County
                         in June, 1894. Brigadier General Will J. McKee reported that the colored militiamen
                        "performed satisfactorily some of the hardest service allotted to any of the
                        companies." See Report of the Adjutant General of the State of Indiana,
                            1894 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1894), 18, 31–36.
               
                  13 Clifton J. Phillips, Indiana in Transition: The Emergence
                            of an Industrial Commonwealth, 1880–1920 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1968), 65n; [James K. Gore], Record of Indiana Volunteers in the
                            Spanish-American War, 1898–
               
            
            
            As Negroes contemplated ways to guarantee that black militiamen would receive equitable treatment in
                    case of war with 
                        Spain
                    , the most significant question was whether the two militia companies should continue to
                    accept their separate status or attempt to be reincorporated into the established regiments.
                    Although the black leadership was divided over the issue, a majority including the Negro militia
                    officers favored reincorporation into the regimental structure. To this end, Captains Porter and
                    Buckner, along with other officers of their companies and Detective Thornton, held a series of
                    conferences with state Adjutant General James K. Gore, during which they emphasized their
                    dissatisfaction with the drawing of the color line in the national guard. With war probable, this
                    grievance acquired an urgency from the conviction of the Negro militiamen that they would stand
                    little chance of participating in the conflict unless they were attached to some regiment.14
            
            On April 1, 1898, Governor James A. Mount, a Republican elected two years earlier, became directly
                    involved in the discussions between the black militiamen and the adjutant general's office.
                    He claimed that a personal investigation confirmed the wisdom of the action taken by his Democratic
                    predecessor in separating "the colored companies from the white regiments."
                    Furthermore, this action conformed to the practice of the 
                        United States
                     Army and to militia organizations in other states. The governor explained to
                    representatives of the black militia companies that in the event of war their separate status would
                    operate to their advantage because it would insure the retention of their own officers. If they were
                    mustered into service as a part of a "mixed regiment," the War Department would
                    require their officers to be replaced by whites. To persuade Negroes to abandon their 
                  
                     1899 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1900), 65. The quotation is from 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, April 2, 1898. For a biographical sketch of Jacob Porter see 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, June 3, 1898. Governor Claude Matthews placed the Negro
                            militiamen in "separate" companies on January 6, 1896, in deference to the
                            wishes of white troops, who objected to having black militia officers promoted to regimental
                            positions. When Captain John J. Buckner made an "indiscreet" attack on the
                            adjutant general in 1897 for refusing to re-incorporate the Negro militiamen into the
                            regimental structure, he was charged with insubordination and temporarily relieved of his
                            commission. See the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, March 4, 1898.
                  
                     14
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, March 4, April 2, 1898; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, April 9, 1898; 
                                Indianapolis
                             World, April 9, 1898.
               
                     efforts to have the two militia units reassigned to white
                    regiments, Mount promised to work for a black battalion, in which Negroes might rise to the rank of
                    major. Mount emphasized, however, that if the black militiamen refused to accept their separate
                    status and to join him in an effort to raise a black battalion, they would have to be removed from
                    the national guard altogether.15
            
            Although some Negroes, including 
                        Knox
                    , were inclined to accept the proposition of a black battalion, others indicated that
                    nothing less than a full regiment with a complete roster of black officers would compensate for
                    acquiescence in retaining the separate status. The source of greatest concern was the
                    governor's suggestion that the black militiamen might be mustered out of service. Advocates
                    of the plan to reineorporate the black companies into the white regiments now joined those who held
                    out for a "separate regiment" to oppose either of the alternatives put forward by
                    Mount. Quick to translate the controversy into partisan politics, black Democrats insisted that the
                    governor's references to the organization of a battalion were wholly specious. His
                    intention, they argued, was to deprive Negroes of an opportunity to serve their country on the same
                    terms as other citizens. The pro-Democratic World of 
                        Indianapolis
                     maintained that self respect compelled the black militiamen to choose to be mustered
                    out. If war came, Editor Manning declared, "not a Negro in the whole U. States should
                    volunteer to serve in it. If they can't go as citizens with full rights, they should not be
                    willing to go as underlings and lackeys."16 Captains Porter and Buckner
                    seemed to have been caught in the cross fire of all the factional strife over the militia. Whether
                    out of self respect or for some other reason, they notified the governor that their companies
                    desired to be mustered out. The adjutant general acted upon their request promptly.17
            
            On April 8, 1898, a mass meeting of Negroes convened in Odd Fellows Hall in 
                        Indianapolis
                     to discuss the militia 
                  
                     15
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, April 2, 1898; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, April 9, 1898; James A. Mount to Robert B. Bagby, April 26, 1898,
                            Governor James A. Mount Correspondence (Archives Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ).
                  
                     16
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            World, April 9, July 9, 1898.
                  
                     17
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, April 9, 1898; Annual Report of the Adjutant-General
                                of the State of Indiana, For the Year Ending October 31, 1898 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1898), 5.
               
                     situation. Chaired by James H. Lott, a respected attorney, the
                    gathering heard a series of speakers deplore the plight of black citizens desirous of rendering
                    patriotic service to their country in a time of national crisis. John J. Blackshear, minister of the
                    Corinthian Baptist Church, interpreted the whole episode regarding the black militia companies as
                    evidence of "the growing race sentiment" in Indiana. Fully aware that the growth
                    of such sentiment was not easily thwarted, Blackshear insisted that the least the black citizens
                    could do was to protest specific acts of the governor. The "most radical" speaker
                    was Detective Thornton, who was bitter toward Governor Mount as the
                    "representative" of the Republican party. Although Chairman Lott had emphasized
                    that the purpose of the meeting was not "to denounce anybody" or "to make
                    political capital," several resolutions were passed condemning Mount for mustering the
                    black companies out of the militia.18 By the time war with 
                        Spain
                     was finally declared on April 25, 1898, an attitude of indifference if not hostility
                    toward participation in the conflict had pervaded much of the black community in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and apparently in the rest of Indiana as well.19
            
            With the official declaration of war and the issuance of President William McKinley's first
                    call for volunteers, black leaders were worried lest their seeming indifference be cited as
                    justification for disregarding the rights of Negro citizens. But as these leaders clearly
                    recognized, it was not merely a matter of having black men enlist in the volunteer service. The
                    President's call for volunteers stipulated that in filling their quotas states should give
                    preference to organized militia units. Since Negroes were no longer represented in the Indiana
                    militia, a movement was initiated to recruit an "independent colored regiment" of
                    volunteers whose services would be offered to the governor. Regardless of whether such a regiment
                    would be accepted, black spokesmen were convinced that its existence would help combat the notion
                    that Negroes were unpatriotic. Lott, Professor Willis Kersey, and Gabriel Jones, a black member of
                    the state legislature from 
                        Indianapolis
                    , assisted former militia officers Porter 
                  
                     18
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, April 9, 1898.
                  
                     19
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            World, April 23, 30, 1898; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, April 23, 1898.
               
                     and Buckner in setting up an organization to recruit volunteers
                    in towns throughout the state.20 Republican Editor Knox of the Freeman, who had remained aloof from the earlier controversy over the militia,
                    wholeheartedly endorsed the effort to raise a full regiment. "There is but little to be
                    gained," he advised black citizens, "by sulking in the tents. It must not be said
                    that we are totally wanting in that highest of all civic virtues, patriotism."21
            
            On April 26, 1898, two delegations of Negroes called upon Governor Mount to plead the cause of black
                    volunteers. One delegation included Knox and two other well known black citizens of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Dr. J. H. Ballard and Robert Bruce Bagby, who delivered to the governor a letter which
                    purportedly reflected the sentiments of "the colored people of Indiana" regarding
                    the war. The letter stated: "The colored people of Indiana entertain the profoundest
                    sympathy for the oppressed and downtrodden Cubans, and feel that a war, having for its purpose their
                    emancipation, is a holy war. They desire to manifest their sympathy by taking as a race, an active
                    part in the efforts for Cuban freedom."22 Bagby, a past commander of
                    the Martin Dulaney Post of the Grand Army of the Republic, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , reminded the governor of the role played by Negroes in the Civil War and assured him
                    that they would perform in the war against 
                        Spain
                     with no less valor. Shortly after the departure of 
                        Knox
                    's group, another delegation, composed of Kersey and Lott, called upon the
                    governor to offer the services of the regiment then being organized. Impressed by these displays of
                    patriotism and obviously anxious to overcome any disaffection among black Republicans caused by the
                    muster out of the black militiamen, Mount stated: "If additional volunteers are called for,
                    I would be gratified to send from Indiana a colored regiment, fully officered by colored
                        men."23
            
            As soon as the President issued his second call for volunteers late in May, 1898, Mount acted
                    promptly to have Indiana 
                  
                     20
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, April 25, 26, 27, 1898; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            World, April 30, 1898. See also Lewis Jones to Mount, April 28, 1898,
                            Correspondence of the Adjutant General (Archives Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ). For the military contributions of Indiana in the Spanish American War see
                            Phillips, Indiana in Transition, 63–68.
                  
                     21
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, April 30, 1898.
                  
                     22
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, April 27, 1898.
                  
                     23
                            Ibid., Mount to Bagby, April 26, 1898, Mount Correspondence.
               
                     represented by a Negro regiment. On May 26, 1898, he
                    telegraphed the War Department requesting that "a regiment of colored troops, completely
                    officered by thoroughly competent colored men," be accepted in addition to
                    Indiana's quota under the second call for volunteers.24 Two days later
                    the governor enlisted the aid of Indiana's Republican Senator Charles W. Fairbanks in
                    pressing the matter at the War Department. He telegraphed the senator: "Political situation
                    makes it impertaive [sic] that indiana [sic] [be] …
                    represented at the front by Colored men …. The colored men are greatly disappointed that
                    they have not been offered an opportunity to go to the front."25 Mount
                    later told the senator that a black regiment made up of one battalion from 
                        Evansville
                     and another from 
                        Indianapolis
                     "would be [a] great stroke of policy" for Indiana Republicans.26
            
            Despite the entreaties of Mount and Fairbanks, Secretary of War Russell A. Alger denied the request
                    for an additional regiment of black volunteers. Although the secretary indicated that "a
                    colored regiment within [the] limitations of your quota" would "be gladly
                    accepted," his statement of the War Department's policy regarding black officers
                    was clearly incompatible with the intentions of those who had offered the services of a Negro
                    regiment. "It is suggested," Alger wrote Mount, "that the field and staff
                    officers and Captain should 
                  
                     24 Mount to Russell A. Alger, May 26, 1898, Mount to Charles W.
                            Fairbanks, May 28, 1898, Mount Correspondence. The governor's request was for a
                            black regiment in addition to, rather than as a part of, the state's quota because
                            of the arrangement adopted in Indiana whereby volunteer units were allotted on the basis of
                            congressional districts. Raising a full regiment within the quota would have necessitated a
                            violation of this arrangement because of the concentration of the Negro population in one or
                            two congressional districts. As for the organization of the army, infantry regiments after
                            the outbreak of the war in 1898 were usually made up of three battalions of four companies
                            each, with the maximum strength of each company set at 106 men. A brigade included three or
                            more regiments; a division consisted of three brigades; and a corps embraced three or more
                            divisions. See Annual Reports of the War Department for the Fiscal Year Ended
                                June 30, 1898, House Document No. 2, 55 Cong., 3 Sess. (serial 3744),
                            254–57.
                  
                     25 Mount to Fairbanks, May 28, 1898, Charles W. Fairbanks Papers
                            (Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            ). Indiana's other senator was David Turpie, a Democrat.
                  
                     26 Mount to Fairbanks, June 1, 1898, Fairbanks Papers. Others informed
                            the senator that enlisting a colored battalion "would afford great relief for a
                            sorely vexed question." Harry S. New, Roscoe O. Hawkins, and others to Fairbanks,
                            May 28, 1898, Fairbanks Papers. New was the Republican chairman of the Seventh District and
                            Hawkins was a member of the party's state executive committee.
               
                    
                    
                  Above, GEORGE L. KNOX, PROPRIETOR
                            OF THE INDIANAPOLIS
                            Freeman Left, WILLS KERSEY
                  
                  Right, ALEXAXDER E. MANNING, EDITOR
                            OF THE INDIANAPOLIS
                            World
                  
                  Knox and Manning reproduced from 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, December 22, 1891; Kersey reproduced from 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Recorder, September 2, 1899.
               
                     be [as] far as possible trained military men and that [the]
                    first and second Lieutenants should be given to men of color. This has been determined upon in the
                    organization of volunteers at large and possibly the Captains might be colored if suitable men of
                    military knowledge could be found for all the places."27
            
            Upon receipt of the secretary's telegram, Mount returned to the idea that he had promoted
                    earlier during the dispute over the Negro militia companies. He now requested authority to furnish
                    in addition to the state's quota a battalion rather than a regiment of black volunteers. He
                    advised Senator Fairbanks: "We must not fail in this." The governor's
                    plan called for a battalion of four companies with a complete roster of Negro officers, which would
                    be attached to one of the five so called "immune" regiments of black volunteers
                    recruited directly by the War Department without regard for state boundaries. The plan was presented
                    to Secretary Alger by Fairbanks, who was led to believe that the proposition met with the approval
                    of the War Department.28
            
            Mount proceeded on the assumption that at least one black battalion would be allowed from Indiana.
                    After consulting various Negro leaders, he indicated that former militia captain Porter would be
                    commissioned major to command the unit. The governor also expressed the hope of ultimately
                    recruiting two black battalions "to give the colored people as much as it is possible to
                        secure."29 He suggested that two such battalions from Indiana might
                    be combined with the Ninth Ohio Battalion, a black unit already mustered into service, to form a
                    Negro regiment.30 Apparently convinced of the governor's good faith, Editor Knox of the Freeman warned Negroes against demanding more than could be obtained. In his view
                    it was both impolitic and unpatriotic for 
                  
                     27 Alger to Mount, May 27, 1898, Fairbanks to Mount, May 28, 1898,
                            Mount Correspondence.
                  
                     28
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, May 28, 29, 1898; Mount to Fairbanks, May 28, 1898, Mount
                            Correspondence; Mount to Fairbanks, June 3, 1898, Fairbanks Papers; Fairbanks to Mount, May
                            28, June 1, 1898, Mount Correspondence. The term "immune" was applied to
                            those regiments because they were supposed to be made up of men who were immune to tropical
                            fevers.
                  
                     29 Mount to Jacob H. Porter, June 3, 1898, Mount Correspondence; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, June 2, 1898.
                  
                     30
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, June 3, 1898.
               
                     black citizens "to strike back in a time so
                    disadvantageous." Knox claimed that efforts to win concessions during wartime would be
                    suicidal because the end of segregation and discrimination would come only with a revolution in the
                    sentiment of the country as a whole. Too many demands while the nation faced a foreign enemy were,
                    in his view, likely to postpone rather than hasten such a revolution.31
            
            During the first week in June, 1898, Mount's plan for a black battalion hit a snag in the
                    War Department. Disturbing news was first reported from 
                        Washington
                     by a member of the governor's staff, Colonel Winfield T. Durbin, who learned
                    that the department intended to reduce the number of black companies to be furnished by Indiana from
                    four to two. Furthermore, the department planned to attach these companies to the Eighth Infantry, 
                        United States
                     Volunteers, one of the immune regiments in which Negroes were not allowed to hold
                    positions above the rank of lieutenant. Durbin learned that the matter rested entirely with Colonel
                    Eli L. Huggins, commander of the Eighth Infantry, who insisted that he could accept only two
                    companies "with white captains only."32 The prospect of being
                    allowed only two companies would have been sufficient in itself to dampen the enthusiasm of those
                    Negroes busily engaged in recruiting volunteers in Indiana, but the idea of white captains was a
                    source of outrage. The pro-Democratic World wondered how black voters in the North
                    would react to this "humiliating policy …. this contemptible policy of the
                    national [Republican] administration."33 One of the black Republican
                    journals in 
                        Indianapolis
                     noted that all the controversy over granting Negroes an opportunity to enter military
                    service had created so much frustration that black men were standing "aloof from the
                    enlistment idea."34
            
            Obviously aware of the political implications of the growing dissatisfaction among Indiana's
                    black citizens, Mount and Fairbanks expressed unwillingness to abide by the decision of the War
                    Department and Colonel Huggins.35
                    
                  
                     31
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, May 28, June 25, 1898.
                  
                     32
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, June 7, 1898; Fairbanks to Mount, June 4, 1898, Mount
                            Correspondence.
                  
                     33
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            World, June 11, 1898.
                  
                     34
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Recorder, quoted in the Coffeyville, 
                                Kansas
                            , American, May 28, 1898.
                  
                     35 Mount to Fairbanks, June 7, 1898, Fairbanks Papers.
               
                     They took the matter of the state's black volunteers
                    directly to President McKinley, who at the time was being subjected to pressure from other quarters
                    regarding the same issue.36 In their appeal to the white House the Indiana
                    Republican leaders emphasized that the two companies in question would consist largely of
                    ex-militiamen who had performed creditably "in strikes and riots" and who were
                    "thoroughly drilled and experienced." Mount told the President: "It is
                    manifestly unjust to refuse colored captains to these companies. Our people feel that such
                    discrimination is unjust."37 The pressure brought by Mount and
                    especially by Fairbanks, whose efforts in 
                        Washington
                     were supported by Indiana Congressman Jesse Overstreet of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , was sufficient to obtain modification of the War Department's regulation
                    concerning black officers. When the two companies were authorized to retain their Negro captains,
                    the governor assured Fairbanks that his "good work" would be "of
                    inestimable benefit to our friends in Indiana."38 The exception made in
                    regard to Indiana made it difficult for the War Department to adhere in other cases to its earlier
                    policy regarding black officers. The precedent afforded governors of other states, including those
                    of 
                        North Carolina
                     and 
                        Virginia
                    , the opportunity to muster in Negro units under Negro officers.39
            
            By mid-June, 1898, the problem regarding Indiana's black volunteers seemed to have been
                    resolved. Even so, state officials received no instructions from the War Department about the
                    enlistment of Negro recruits. Mount confided to Fairbanks his belief that these instructions were
                    "being surreptiously held up after passing [the] heads of [the] war
                        department."40 The governor's military secretary, Charles
                    E. Wilson, was even more explicit when he wrote that the orders regarding Indiana's black
                    volunteers had "been pigeon-holed … by pig-headed subordinates, who 
                  
                     36
                            
                        Richmond, Virginia
                     , Planet, April 30, May 21, 28,
                            1898.
                  
                     37 Mount to William McKinley, June 6, 1898, File No. 91750, Records of
                            the Office of the Adjutant General, Record Group 94 (National Archives, 
                                Washington
                            , D. C.).
                  
                     38 Henry C. Corbin to Mount, June 8, 1898, Fairbanks to Mount, June
                            10, 1898, Mount Correspondence; Mount to Fairbanks, June 10, 1898, Fairbanks Papers; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, June 9, 11, 1898.
                  
                     39 On the significance of the precedent established by Indiana, see 
                                New York
                             Daily Tribune, May 30, 1898; 
                                Atlanta
                            
                            Constitution, June 14, 1898.
                  
                     40 Mount to Fairbanks, June 20, 1898, Mount Correspondence.
               
                     seem to imagine that they outrank cabinet officials."
                    He wrote that Fairbanks, outraged by the "shilly-shally" behavior of the War
                    Department, would "make somebody's hair to curl" unless the black
                    companies were attended to immediately.41
            
            Finally, on June 21, 1898, after Fairbanks had made trips to the White House as well as to the War
                    Department, Governor Mount was notified that Indiana's quota under the second call
                    consisted of one regiment and two companies of infantry. The two companies, of course, referred to
                    the black volunteers. Relieved that his black constituents would be represented in the volunteer
                    forces, the governor hastened to assure Senator Fairbanks: "You have achieved a splendid
                    result[.] I congratulate & thank you."42
                    
                        Knox
                    , whose newspaper had carefully avoided any criticism of the governor, declared:
                    "Governor Mount and Senator Fairbanks have done everything possible in behalf of the
                    colored people. Now is our opportunity."43 That 
                        Knox
                    's enthusiasm was not shared by all Negroes became evident when Porter and
                    Buckner, whom the governor had commissioned captains in the volunteer service, attempted to assemble
                    two companies at Camp Mount, which was located on the state fairgrounds at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Becoming increasingly anxious that not enough men would be found to fill two
                    companies, Mount concluded that if Indiana furnished no colored troops the blame would rest with no
                    one "but the colored men themselves." Knox fully agreed and encouraged Negroes to
                    justify the faith that state officials had placed in them by volunteering for military service. His
                    Democratic rival, Manning of the World, denied 
                  
                     41 [Charles E. Wilson] to Russell B. Harrison, June 18, 1898, Mount
                            Correspondence; Mount to Fairbanks, June 21, 1898, Fairbanks Papers. One Indiana historian,
                            writing shortly after the war, claimed that the controversy over the Negro volunteers was
                            the reason that Adjutant General Corbin prevented any Indiana unit from taking part in the
                            invasion of 
                                Cuba
                            . William Henry Smith, The History of the State of Indiana from the
                                Early Explorations by the French to the Present Time (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1903), II, 470. While the research for this essay turned up no evidence to
                            corroborate Smith's assertion, Negroes themselves held Corbin responsible for
                            thwarting the aspirations of black men to participate in the volunteer army. See John W.
                            Cromwell, The Negro in American History: Men and Women Eminent in the Evolution
                                of the American of African Descent (
                                Washington
                            , 1914), 58–59.
                  
                     42 Corbin to Mount (copy for Fairbanks), June 21, 1898, Mount to
                            Fairbanks, June 21, 1898, Fairbanks Papers. See also the Annual Report of the
                                Adjutant General of the State of Indiana, 1898, 11.
                  
                     43
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, June 11, 1898.
               
                    
                    
                  JAMES A. MOUNT
                  
                  GOVERNOR OF INDIANA 1897–1901
               
                    
                  CHARLES W. FAIRBANKS
                  
                  UNITED STATES SENATOR
                            1897–1905 VICE PRESIDENT
                            1905–1909
                  Courtesy Indiana Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
               
                     that the apathetic response of black citizens was in any way a
                    reflection upon their patriotism. Rather, he declared, it revealed the profound disgust which most
                    Negroes felt after so much "dilly dallying" and "so much lying"
                    about the use of black volunteers.44
            
            By July 13, 1898, Captains Porter and Buckner had recruited a sufficient number of men largely in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Evansville
                     to provide minimum, though not full, strength for two companies. The black officers
                    immediately began a rigorous program of military training while awaiting muster into federal
                        service.45 The Freeman spoke in glowing terms of the 212
                    "well-developed, good-looking colored youths and men" at Camp Mount. "The
                    colored people of the city and State," it editorialized, "feel proud that they are
                    represented in the great humanitarian war between 
                        Spain
                     and this country…."46 But for some of the
                    recruits at least it was not so much a question of participating in a humanitarian cause as it was
                    of being paid. These recruits were under the misconception that they were members of the militia,
                    constituting a part of "the reorganized colored national guard companies," and
                    that as such they were entitled to pay as militiamen from the date of their enlistment until their
                    muster into federal service. They were greatly disappointed when Mount explained that they were not
                    in state service and that the only way the old militia companies "figured in" at
                    all was in persuading the War Department to accept Negro officers whose experience in the national
                    guard entitled them to commissions above the rank of lieutenant.47
            
            By the time the two companies from Indiana were mustered into volunteer service on July 15, 1898, the
                    Cuban campaign was virtually over. Although the well publicized bravery of the black soldiers of the
                    regular army in the Battles of El Caney and San Juan Hill inspired black volunteers with the hope of
                    emulating their feats, the possibility 
                  
                     44
                            Ibid., June 28, July 1, 1898; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, June 25, July 2, 1898; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            World, June 25, July 9, 1898. See the series of telegrams from Wilson to
                            recruiters in all parts of the state urging them to send on what men they had collected.
                            Wilson to Samuel Evans (
                                Bloomington
                            ), Walter Russell (
                                Wabash
                            ), Cornelius Cross (
                                Evansville
                            ), Benjamin Hickman (
                                Crawfordsville
                            ), July 8, 1898, Mount Correspondence.
                  
                     45
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, July 14, 16, 1898.
                  
                     46
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, July 16, 1898.
                  
                     47 Wilson to F. E. Benjamin, June 14, 1898, Mount Correspondence; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, July 12, August 11, 1898.
               
                     that they would ever participate in actual combat was slight.
                    Nevertheless, the Negro companies camped at 
                        Indianapolis
                     continued "to hope and wait." When Mount visited the camp on July 20,
                    1898, he told the men that theirs was an opportunity not only to render patriotic service to their
                    country but also to "make history" for their race. In the governor's
                    words the Negro troops were in a position to "add new luster to the act of the immortal
                    hero who emancipated your people …." He admonished: "Soldiers of the
                    independent colored companies, you are on trial. The eyes … of the Nation, are fixed upon
                        you."48 Although the soldiers "joined in three rousing
                    cheers for the Governor," the response of black civilians was not so uniformly favorable. 
                        Knox
                    's Freeman characterized Mount's speech as strong
                    evidence of the governor's friendship for the black man. The Democratic World, on the other hand, described the speech as a conglomeration of "pap, politics
                    and poppycock." Angered by what he termed its "patronizing tone," Editor
                    Manning especially resented the idea that Negroes were on trial, and he pointed out that the role of
                    black men in every national crisis, from the Revolution through the Civil War, scarcely made them
                    "an untried quanity [sic]." Furthermore, Manning noted that
                    since black volunteer regiments with black colonels had already been furnished by 
                  North Carolina, Illinois
               , and 
                        Kansas
                    , Indiana was obviously "one of the last and least with her two
                        companies."49
            
            For almost two months the Negro volunteers remained in camp at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and by mid-August Captains Porter and Buckner were describing their men as
                    "model soldiers." Although the discipline of the black soldiers compared favorably
                    with that of white troops, there was some friction between the soldiers and the townspeople and a
                    newspaper correspondent claimed early in August that the Negro companies wished to be transferred
                    from Camp Mount "as much as the State officers desire them to … ."so A
                    serious encounter 
                  
                     48 Address to "Captains Porter and Buckner, and Soldiers of
                            the Independent Colored Companies of Indiana Volunteer Infantry," Mount
                            Correspondence; 
                                Indianapolis
                             Journal, July 21, August 22, 1898.
                  
                     49
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, July 30, 1898; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            World, July 23, August 6, 1898; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, July 21, 1898.
                  
                     50
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, August 8, 1898; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, August 20, 1898. Possibly a more important reason why state
                            officials were anxious for the Negro volunteers to be transferred from the camp at
                        the
               
                     between the black volunteers and white civilians occurred on
                    August 29, just prior to the departure of the Negro companies from 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Granted passes to visit the city, several men of Captain Buckner's company
                    got drunk, wrecked a saloon, stole watermelons from a fruitstand, and resisted arrest by white
                    policemen. According to the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal, the soldiers labored "under the impression that a 
                        United States
                     volunteer can do about as he pleases … ." The Freeman reminded the black volunteers that their behavior had consequences for all Negroes in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and warned that disturbances such as the one on August 29 were likely to give rise to
                    cries of "lynch."51
            
            The fate of the two black companies was a source of many rumors. For a time it appeared as if they
                    would be assigned garrison duty in 
                        Cuba
                     along with the black volunteers from Illinois and 
                        Kansas
                    .52 Later, reports that the Indiana soldiers would not leave the
                    state and would be mustered out early created considerable anxiety. Finally, on September 2, 1898,
                    the two companies departed for Fort Thomas, 
                        Kentucky
                    , where they were to be "attached" to the Eighth Infantry, the black
                    immune regiment commanded by Colonel Huggins. The two Indiana companies, with their black captains,
                    were not actually absorbed into the regimental structure of the Eighth, however, but in an unusual
                    arrangement retained their identity as separate units. Their camp, known as Camp Capron, was
                    situated on a hill overlooking the Ohio River. Though apart from the quarters
                    of Huggins' regiment, the Indiana companies were instructed to maintain "no
                    separate guards" and to utilize the Eighth's medical facilities.53 A correspondent among the Indiana volunteers wrote home that contrary to expectations
                    Huggins was very solicitous of their welfare. Gossip in the camp even had it 
                  state fairground was the approach of the fair. See Mount to Alger, August 13, 1898, Mount
                            Correspondence.
                  
                     51
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, August 30, 1898; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, September 3, 1898.
                  
                     52 Corbin to Mount, August 14, 1898, Mount to Corbin, August 14, 1898,
                            Mount Correspondence.
                  
                     53 Corbin to Mount, August 29, 1898, Mount Correspondence; Jacob H.
                            Porter to Corbin, August 29, 1898, File No. 91570, Records of the Office of the Adjutant
                            General; General Order No. 33, September 2, 1898, Companies A and B, Indiana Colored
                            Volunteers, Regimental Book Records, Records of the Office of the Adjutant General.
               
                     that the colonel had never expressed any opposition to Negro
                        officers.54
            
            After a month at Fort Thomas, the two Indiana companies were transferred along with the Eighth
                    Infantry to 
                        Chickamauga
                     Park, 
                        Georgia
                    , near 
                  Chattanooga, Tennessee
               . At the time, these units, with a total of 1,500
                    men, were the only soldiers stationed at 
                        Chickamauga
                    , and the black volunteers were well aware that their presence was a source of
                    considerable concern among whites. They were constantly reminded by their officers and by visiting
                    dignitaries as well of the necessity "to be better men in every respect in order to receive
                    what is due you."55 The men themselves seem to have been keenly aware
                    of the additional burden that their race placed upon them and attempted to avoid behavior which
                    could be cited in support of the claim by some whites that Negro soldiers were unruly and
                    insubordinate when commanded by Negro officers. The Indiana soldiers took especial pride in their
                    military bearing and in the proficiency they exhibited on the parade ground. They began to refer to
                    themselves as "The Indiana Invincibles."56
            
            For white residents in the vicinity of 
                        Chickamauga
                     Park, however, the military proficiency of the black volunteers stationed there was of
                    far less moment than their conduct outside the camp, and good conduct was measured by the degree to
                    which the volunteers conformed to local racial mores. Experiences earlier in the year with black
                    soldiers of the regular army had aroused considerable hostility toward Negroes in uniform. Like the
                    black regulars, the volunteers showed little inclination to abide by the segregation practices in
                    saloons, cafes, and especially on the railroad between 
                        Chattanooga
                     and 
                        Chickamauga
                     Park. The tension between white civilians and black soldiers reached a climax early in
                    November when a volunteer from Indiana refused to leave his seat in a railway car reserved for
                    whites and "take one assigned to colored people." The incident created a stir in
                    the local press and set off a barrage of rumors about 
                  
                     54
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, September 10, 1898.
                  
                     55
                            
                                Chattanooga
                            
                            Daily Times, October 10, 1898.
                  
                     56
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, September 10, October 15, November 12, December 24, 1898; Eli L.
                            Huggins to Porter, September 7, 1898, Regimental Book Records, Records of the Office of the
                            Adjutant General; 
                                Chattanooga
                            
                            Daily Times, October 10, 1898; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Recorder, January 28, 1899.
               
                     an impending race war.57 In a strong
                    protest to the secretary of war concerning the affair, the mayor of 
                        Chattanooga
                     requested that all black troops be removed at once from 
                        Chickamauga
                     Park.58 Colonel Huggins countered with a defense of the black
                    volunteers and informed the War Department that white citizens magnified and distorted
                    "every instance of misconduct on the part of colored soldiers." He declared:
                    "My colored officers and men have quietly submitted to slights and insults which would not
                    be patiently borne by white troops."59 The colonel pressed the local
                    newspapers to investigate the validity of stories which they published about Negro soldiers. Such an
                    investigation by one editor, J. E. MacGowan of the 
                        Chattanooga
                    
                    Daily Times, resulted in a full apology. MacGowan wrote Colonel Huggins: 
                  
                     
                        Allow me to apologize for the absurd reports that have appeared in this newspaper
                                    concerning alleged bad conduct on the part of some of your officers and men. The
                                    publisher and myself are much exasperated over the reporter's break. I do
                                    not think he will make a similar one soon.
                        As for our mayor asking the Secretary of War to take your command elsewhere, that
                                    only shows that we have an unwise man for mayor. He represents nobody in this
                                    matter—at least nobody of account.60
                        
                     
                  
               This apology, coupled with Colonel Huggins' strong defense of the black volunteers
                    under his command, thwarted the effort to have the troops transferred elsewhere.
            In his confidential communications with the War Department regarding the friction between Negro
                    soldiers and white civilians, Huggins was always careful to distinguish between the men of his own
                    regiment and those of the Indiana companies and to absolve the former of any wrongdoing. He felt
                    that the training of his own men precluded any serious breaches of discipline but claimed that the
                    same could not be said of the Indiana volunteers. "I have done what I could to discipline
                    these [Indiana] companies," he wrote the adjutant general, "but they had been
                    several months in service before they came under my command and having their own 
                  
                     57
                            
                                Chattanooga
                            
                            Daily Times, April 24, 25, October 23, 24, 25, 1898.
                  
                     58
                            Ibid., November 3, 4, 19, 1898; E. W. Watkins to Alger, November 3, 1898,
                            File No. 15473, Huggins to Corbin, November 12, 1898, File No. 157536, Records of the Office
                            of the Adjutant General.
                  
                     59 Huggins to Corbin, November 10, 1898, File No. 157499, Records of
                            the Office of the Adjutant General.
                  
                     60 J. E. MacGowan to Huggins, November 23, 1898, File No. 154749, ibid.
                  
               
                    
                    
                  CORPORAL PETER W. BARNETT
                  C. A, First Indiana Infantry, U S. V.
                  The subject of this sketch was born in Livingston County, Ky. Attended the
                            schools there, and also his home in Illinois He taught for a short time in the schools of 
                                Kentucky
                            ; came to 
                                Indianapolis
                             in 1891, and soon after spent some time attending high school. He spent two
                            years attending high school. He spent two years attending the Indiana State Normal school at 
                                Terre Haute
                            , Ind., receiving the recommendation of the president of that institution,
                            Returning, he engaged as general and soliciting agent with the Union Publishing Company of 
                                Indianapolis
                            . He was for some time connection with the 
                                Indianapolis
                             Freeman, also the World as reporter. Together with J. T. V. Hill, he published
                            the Colored Business Directory of 
                                Indianapolis
                             of 1898, giving valuable information concerning the advancement of the colored
                            citizens of the city. Some time previous to enlisting, Mr. Barnett began the study of law
                            and was associated with J. T. V Hill. Since the Indiana companies have been stationed at 
                                Chickamauga
                             he has been the regular correspondent for The Recorder. Should the companies go
                            to West Indies, he will continue to furnish valuable information to the readers of The
                            Recorder.
                  Reproduced from the 
                                Indianapolis
                             Recorder, January 14, 1899
               
                     colored captains who were their neighbors at home and familiar
                    with them, they are more self-assertive and less respectful in their demeanor than the men of my
                        regiment."61 Although Huggins admitted that the press reports of
                    misconduct by the black Indianians were "distorted and exaggerated," he
                    nonetheless made it clear that he considered them something less than model soldiers.62
            
            In October, 1898, Colonel Marion Maus, an inspection officer, visited the camp of the Indiana
                    companies and transmitted to the War Department a lengthy report. He complimented "the good
                    appearance" of the men and declared that "both companies appear to be as well
                    drilled as those of the 8th [Infantry]." Maus continued: "I found that as a rule
                    the officers could give commands fairly well and could drill companies." Despite such
                    compliments he recommended that the two companies be mustered out. To justify this recommendation
                    his report cited the "poor condition" of the company records which resulted from
                    the fact that all officers except Lieutenant James H. Thomas were "insufficiently educated
                    to hold commissions." Maus was particularly shocked to discover that neither of the
                    captains knew what constituted a government ration. He also indicated that like so many other
                    volunteer outfits, those from Indiana were inspired more by political than military considerations.
                    The Indiana companies, he had been told, "were organized by Senator Fairbanks." In
                    taking note of the racial factor Colonel Maus wrote: "I do not think it is for the best
                    interests of the service to have these two [Indiana] companies attached to the 8th Regiment. The
                    captains of that regiment are white and these are colored, and a distinction is thus made. I have
                    found that there was an objection …. There seemed to be a slight friction which, however,
                    was not pronounced." Even though Colonel Maus thought that the Indiana companies should be
                    mustered out, he nevertheless recommended "that such of the men that desire to remain in
                    service should be assigned to fill vacancies in the [immune] regiments," because they were
                    "good men as a rule and on account of their instruction would be most desirable to fill
                    vacancies in the regiments named." Notwithstanding these recommendations, 
                  
                     61 Huggins to Corbin, November 11, 1898, File No. 157536, ibid.
                  
                  
                     62 Huggins to Corbin, November 12, 1898, File No. 157499, ibid.
                  
               
                     the Indiana companies remained in service until the general
                    disbandment of the volunteer army began early in 1899.63
            
            Throughout their three months at 
                        Chickamauga
                     the men of the Indiana units continued to believe that they would ultimately be
                    assigned garrison duty in 
                        Cuba
                    . A majority of them apparently were enthusiastic about the prospect.64 In mid-November their hope of immediate transfer to the island was squelched by orders from
                    the War Department directing both the Eighth Infantry and the Indiana volunteers to remain at 
                        Chickamauga
                     through the winter. To break the monotony of camp life the men engaged in various
                    sports and musical activities, attended a class in law conducted by a member of the Eighth Infantry
                    who was an attorney by profession, and established a reading room with the help of the
                    Soldiers' Aid Society of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Corporal Willis O. Tyler of 
                        Bloomington
                    , formerly a barber and part time student at the state university, conducted a class in
                    Spanish for the black volunteers as preparation for duty in 
                        Cuba
                    , which was expected to be their assignment in the spring. Contrary to such
                    expectations, the Indiana companies received news early in January that they were due to be mustered
                    out before the end of the month.65 Prior to the scheduled time, a dozen of the
                    Indiana volunteers transferred to the Eighth Infantry on the erroneous assumption that the regiment
                    would be sent to 
                        Cuba
                    . In fact, the Eighth never left 
                        Chickamauga
                     and remained in service less than two months after the Indiana companies were mustered
                        out.66
            
            On January 20, 1899, the black volunteers from Indiana left 
                        Chickamauga
                     for home. Their return was celebrated at 
                  
                     63 "Report of an Inspection of Company A and B, 1st Indiana,
                            by Lt. Col. Marion Maus," Appendix 7 of Army War College, "The Colored
                            Soldier in the 
                                United States
                             Army" (typescript copy, 
                                United States
                             Army Military History Collection, 
                                Carlisle
                             Barracks, Pa.), 32–34. See also 
                                Chattanooga
                            
                            Daily Times, October 13, 1898.
                  
                     64 See "Camp Notes" and correspondents'
                            special reports which appeared nearly every week in the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, November 5, 1898- January 28, 1899. Willis O. Tyler's
                            reminiscences of camp life describe some of the soldiers' less wholesome
                            diversions. See 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Recorder, February 11, 1899.
                  
                     65
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, November 12, December 3, 1898; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            World, December 10, 17, 31, 1898; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Recorder, January 7, 14, 28, 1899; John J. Buckner to Mount, January 5,
                            1899, Mount Correspondence. According to the records in the office of the Indiana University
                            registrar, Tyler eventually received an A.B. degree in history in 1902.
                  
                     66
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Recorder, January 14, 28, 1899.
               
                     the Bethel A.M.E. Church in 
                        Indianapolis
                     with a banquet sponsored by the Soldiers' Aid Society and attended by Negro
                    citizens from throughout the state. The ex-soldiers marched into the church while a large choir sang
                    "John 
                        Brown
                    's Body." Various speakers extolled their patriotism and predicted
                    that their military service would inaugurate a new era in the quest for racial justice.
                    "This ends the beginning of a new chapter of Negro history in America," Knox
                        exclaimed.67
            
            As for the volunteers, most of them returned to civilian life and probably were unable to detect any
                    evidence of the new day proclaimed by these speakers. In the spring of 1899, twenty-two Indiana
                    Negroes, mostly former members of the black companies, enlisted in the regular army and prepared to
                    take part in the military campaign in the Philippine Islands. Later in the year, James H. Thomas and
                    James F. Powell, also former members of the state's volunteer units, received commissions
                    in the Forty-eighth and Forty-ninth infantries, two black regiments recruited by the War Department
                    specifically for service in the 
                        Philippines
                    .68 Denied an opportunity for combat in 
                        Cuba
                    , these black Indianians took up the White Man's Burden in the Pacific and
                    rendered important service to a cause which had become unpopular with many black Americans.69
            
            The experience of the black volunteers from Indiana offered a dramatic example of the controversy
                    created throughout the 
                        United States
                     by the demand for Negro officers.70 The action of Governor Mount in
                    mustering out the black militiamen on the eve of the war rather than allowing them to become
                    integrated into the regimental structure of the national guard was wholly consistent with the policy
                    of 
                  
                     67
                            Ibid., January 28, 1899; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freeman, January 28, 1899. Rosters of Companies A and B as of their muster
                            out date are in Gore, Record of Indiana Volunteers in the Spanish-American
                            War, 345–52, and W. D. Pratt, pub., A History of the National
                                Guard of Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1901), 389–92.
                  
                     68
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Recorder, May 6, September 9, 16, 1899. For the complete rosters of the
                            officers of the Forty-eighth and Forty-ninth infantries, see Congressional
                                Record, 56 Cong., 1 Sess., Appendix, 442–43.
                  
                     69 See George P. Marks, III, "Opposition of Negro Newspapers
                            to American Philippine Policy, 1899–1900," Midwest
                            Journal, IV (Winter, 1951–1952), 1–25.
                  
                     70 For a brief account of this controversy, see Fletcher,
                            "Negro Soldier and the 
                                United States
                             Army," 235–36.
               
                     the War Department and with the practice of states such as
                    Illinois and 
                        Ohio
                    . Like the Republican governors of those states, Mount was keenly aware of the small but
                    significant black vote, and political considerations undoubtedly figured in his effort to gain for
                    black Indianians some measure of representation in the volunteer forces recruited in the state. But
                    whatever the motivation, the pressure exerted by the governor and by Senator Fairbanks in behalf of
                    Negro volunteers caused the War Department to modify its racial policy—a change which
                    made it easier for other states to muster in Negro units with complete rosters of Negro officers. It
                    was perhaps ironic that Indiana, which could claim credit for modifying the War Department
                    regulations, should be, in the words of a black editor, "one of the last and least with her
                    two companies."71
            
            
               
                  71
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        World, July 23, 1898.
            
         
         
         
            Hazelden Farm
            The Preservation of George Ade's Home
            Edited by Randall W. Jehs∗
            
            For forty years, George Ade, noted Hoosier humorist, playwright, and author, lived, wrote, and played
                    host both to the nation's great and to his 
                        Newton County
                     neighbors on his farm of over 400 acres near Brook, Indiana. When Ade purchased the
                    land in 1902, there was on it a grove of oaks which seemed "a nice spot to put a little
                    cottage." He envisioned "a little shack" which he could use as a retreat
                    whenever he felt a need to get away from the active literary life of 
                        Chicago
                    , where he had established himself in 1890. However, by the time he moved into his new
                    "bungalow" in 1904, it had grown into an Elizabethan manor house "about
                    the size of a girls' school," as Ade himself said, complete with cow barn,
                    greenhouse, caretaker's cottage, dance pavilion, several smaller outbuildings, swimming
                    pool, softball diamond, and forty foot water tower. The grounds were landscaped and elaborate
                    gardens were laid out with grape and rose arbors. Decorators came down from 
                        Chicago
                     with plans for the interior of the house, to which Ade contributed tapestries,
                    furniture, and art obects he had collected on travels to the Far East. The result was somewhat
                    eclectic—the living rooms made an exotic oriental effect while the bedrooms were in Early
                    American—but it was comfortable. Ade soon found himself staying less and less often in
                    his room at the 
                        Chicago
                     Athletic Club and writing more and 
                  
                     ∗ Randall W. Jehs is the field agent for the Indiana
                            Division, Indiana State Library. Appreciation is expressed to Mr. John R. Funk, President of
                            the George Ade Memorial Association, 
                                Kentland
                            , Indiana, for providing information, photographs, and documents.
               
                    
                    
                  GEORGE ADE
                  
                  Courtesy John R. Funk, 
                                Kentland
                            , Indiana
               
                    
                    
                  HAZELDEN FARM
                  
                  Above Left, c. 1925; Above Right, 1971; Below, The Garden Path
                  Courtsey Indiana Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
               
                     more behind the huge desk in his study at the
                    "homestead" he christened Hazelden Farm.1
            
            Ade did not remain constantly at Hazelden, of course. The business of publishing his books and
                    producing his plays and the pleasure of the company of friends elsewhere frequently drew him out of
                    rural Indiana. "You may acquire peace of mind by listening to the breeze in the
                    trees," he said, "but you will not get any man-size experiences out of botany. If
                    you wish to keep tab on the human race you must go, once in a while, to where the interesting
                    specimens are assembled."2 Yet, because his hospitality was both homey
                    and expansive, it was not rare to find that the interesting specimens were assembled in 
                        Newton County
                    . Ade took pleasure in seeing people enjoying his home, and Hazelden was often as far
                    from a quiet retreat as it was from a one horse farm. The neighbors became accustomed to walking
                    right in without knocking, and huge crowds of visitors regularly descended upon the place. Ade
                    hosted annual community parties, conventions of Sigma Chi, the fraternity he had joined while a
                    student at Purdue, a Fourth of July homecoming for soldiers and sailors in 1919, and political
                    wingdings of all sorts. William Howard Taft opened his campaign for the presidency with a rally at
                    Hazelden in 1908. Charles G. Dawes closed his campaign for the vice-presidency there in 1924. Almost
                    any event, even the opening of a segment of state road, could become an excuse for festivities at
                    George Ade's farm.3
            
            
               
                  1 This description of the development of Hazelden Farm is based on Fred C.
                        Kelly, George Ade: Warmhearted Satirist (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1947), 156, 181–86. The quoted words are on pages 156 and 183. Ade was
                        born in 
                            Kentland
                         in 1866. He attended Purdue, sporadically studied law in 
                            Lafayette
                        , and worked on newspapers there before becoming a reporter on the 
                            Chicago
                        
                        Morning News, later the 
                            Chicago
                        
                        Record, in 1890. He soon had his own column, excerpts from which were
                        published as Stories of the Streets and of the Town in 1894. Fables in Slang, perhaps his most enduring book, sold 69,000 copies in 1900, the year
                        it was published, an event which encouraged Ade to resign from the Record and
                        devote himself full time to writing books and plays. In 1903, The Sultan of
                        Sulu, a light operetta for which he wrote both the lyrics and the dialogue, became the
                        first of a long series of his plays which were successfully produced in 
                            New York
                        . Besides the biography by Kelly, see Arthur W. Shumaker, A History of
                            Indiana Literature: With Emphasis on the Authors of Imaginative Works Who Commenced Writing
                            Prior to World War II (Indiana Historical Collections, XLII; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1962), 444–73. Ade's works are catalogued in Dorothy R. Russo,
                            A Bibliography of George Ade, 1866–1944 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1947).
               
                  2 Quoted in Kelly, George Ade, 230–31.
               
                  3
                        Ibid., 219–34; Shumaker, History of Indiana
                            Literature, 463; Howard F. McMains, "The Road to George Ade's Farm:
                        Origins of Taft's First Campaign Rally, September, 1908," Indiana
                            Magazine of History, LXVII (December, 1971), 317–34; 
                            Kentland
                        , Indiana, 
                     
                                Newton County
                             Enterprise, October 13, 1932.
            
            
            The following correspondence involving Ade, Richard Lieber the director of the Indiana Department of
                    Conservation, and Meredith Nicholson the well known author, diplomat, and journalist, concerns what
                    was to be the fate of Hazelden after Ade's death.4 Ade offered to leave
                    the farm to the conservation department for use as a state park, but Lieber demurred, feeling that a
                    park "would be the unmaking of Hazelden and its memories." He suggested instead
                    that Ade provide for its preservation as a literary museum, which "would set aside your
                    home as a shrine and at the same time would permit the good friends and neighbors to come in and
                    enjoy a quiet day in the open."5 Nothing definite came of this 1932
                    effort, but it indicates Ade's desire to have Hazelden's tradition of hospitality
                    continue in some form after his death. The correspondence also demonstrates that Lieber, who is so
                    completely identified with the state park idea, was also interested in the development of other
                    forms of public recreational and educational facilities and did not encourage the acquisition of
                    parks where he felt they would be inappropriate.
            Never entirely giving up the notion of leaving Hazelden to the state, but apparently unable to decide
                    precisely what to do with it, Ade left the question open in the will he wrote in 1934. Probated
                    after his death ten years later, the will directed that the house and its immediate environs be
                    turned over to a five man board of trustees who would have full power to dispose of the property.
                    Ade suggested that the trustees transfer the estate either to Purdue University, to the state
                    conservation department, or to an association or foundation which would undertake to manage it. He
                    did not bind the trustees to any of these suggestions,6 however, 
                  
                     4 Richard Lieber, a nationally known figure in conservation, was the
                            founder of the Indiana state park system. He was director of the state Department of
                            Conservation from its creation in 1919 until 1933. See Robert Allen Frederick,
                            "Colonel Richard Lieber, Conservationist and Park Builder: The Indiana
                            Years" (Ph.D. dissertation, Department of History, Indiana University, 1960).
                            Meredith Nicholson's best known literary works are The Hoosiers
                            (1900), a study of Indiana culture and literature; The Valley of Democracy
                            (1918), a collection of essays on the midwest; and two novels, The House of a
                                Thousand Candles (1905) and A Hoosier Chronicle (1912). Between
                            1933 and 1941 he served successively as 
                                United States
                             envoy to 
                        Paraguay, Venezuela
                     , and 
                                Nicaragua
                            . See Shumaker, History of Indiana Literature,
                            325–37.
                  
                     5 See below, pp. 152, 154.
                  
                     6 George Ade's will, signed March 21, 1934, and probated May
                            29, 1944, thirteen days after his death, is filed in the office of the 
                                Newton County
                             clerk, 
                                Kentland
                            . A copy is held by the George Ade Memorial Association, 
                                Kentland
                            . The five trustees of Hazelden were to be the president of the
               
                    
                    
                  HAZELDEN FARM
                  
                  "Work Shop," Dining Room, Living Room, "Colonial" Bedroom
                  Courtesy Indiana Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
               
                    
                    
                  HAZELDEN FARM
                  
                  Dancing Pavilion, Swimming Pool, Club House
                  Courtsey Indiana Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
               
                     and on September 20, 1946, they conveyed the property to 
                        Newton County
                    , which proposed to build a hospital on the site with the house becoming a
                    nurses' residence.7 A disagreement between the towns of 
                        Morocco
                     and 
                        Kentland
                     over locating the hospital on the farm led to a referendum among the county's
                    citizens in 1946, and, though the outcome favored Hazelden as the hospital site, money difficulties
                    delayed the project even further.8 Meanwhile, the estate fell into disrepair and
                    ruin. A threat to terminate the insurance on the house created sufficient interest so that in 1953
                    Governor George N. Craig appointed a twenty man board to study the Hazelden dilemma. When this board
                    was unable to devise a solution, the house and grounds were left to suffer neglect for nearly a
                    decade longer.9
            
            In 1962, the house was acquired by the George Ade Memorial Association, formed that year in 
                        Kentland
                    . Announcing plans to preserve the home as a suitable literary shrine, the dedicated
                    members of the association raised $20,000 by the fall of 1962 and began restoration.
                    Within a year the major repairs on the house were completed, though work still continues on the
                    building and its furnishings. Today, the Ade home is once again the scene of many social and
                    cultural events, including wedding receptions, parties, and meetings of local organizations such as
                    the 
                        Newton County
                     Historical Society. Three upstairs rooms serve as a museum in which copies of
                    Ade's books and other memorabilia are displayed. In the future, the George Ade Memorial
                    Association hopes to be able to maintain regular visiting hours when the house can be open to the
                        public.10 At long last, through the efforts of concerned local people,
                    Ade's desire that Hazelden Farm continue to be used and enjoyed is finding a measure of
                    fulfillment.
            
               Board of Trustees of Purdue University; the president of Purdue University; Joseph A. Andrew
                        of 
                            Lafayette
                        , Indiana; James D. Rathbun of 
                            Kentland
                        , Indiana; and Joseph W. Reeve of 
                            Rensselaer
                        , Indiana.
               
                  7 Telephone interviews with John R. Funk, president of the George Ade
                        Memorial Association, January 3, April 3, 1973.
               
                  8 The citizens of 
                            Morocco
                        , located ten miles northwest of Hazelden Farm, were anxious to acquire the
                        hospital, as they had lost a battle with the citizens of 
                            Kentland
                         over the location of the county courthouse many years before. See Richard S.
                        Simons, "Will Hoosiers Save Hazelden?" 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star Magazine, November 15, 1953, pp. 6–8. The George Ade Memorial
                        Hospital on the Hazelden site was finally dedicated in 1960. Telephone interviews with John R.
                        Funk.
               
                  9 Telephone interviews with John R. Funk.
               
                  10
                        Ibid. The grounds surrounding the house remain the property of 
                            Newton County
                        .
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Oct. 16, 1932.1
                           
                                
                        
                           
                              Col. Richard Lieber,
                              Department of Conservation,
                              State House,
                              
                                 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 , Ind.
                           
                                    Dear Colonel Lieber:
                        I was sorry to learn from a letter written by your Secretary that you would not find
                                    it possible to be at our celebration of the opening of the road.2 For a little while I have had a rather heavy project on my mind. The other
                                    day I talked it over with Clarence Doland, your Manager at Clifty Falls, and he gave
                                    me some encouragement. Here is the whole situation and I will try to make it brief:
                                    I live here on a farm of about 430 acres. A small part north of the new State Road
                                    and another part east of my home grounds are occupied by the Hazelden Country Club,
                                    although the ground belongs to me and I have a large but undetermined equity in all
                                    the improvements. My home is in a grove of about ten acres with many wide open
                                    spaces for recreation grounds. South and west of my park there is some bottom land
                                    and also some beautiful upland, heavily wooded. To the south are the farm buildings.
                                    In my will, as it now stands, I am leaving the entire fram [sic]
                                    to a corporation not yet formed, to be called THE GEORGE ADE FOUNDATION, the idea
                                    being to carry on an arrangement with the Hazelden Country Club and maintain my home
                                    and continue our policy of using the home grounds. What I would now like to do is
                                    this, divide the farm into three tracts, giving the farming section at the south to
                                    someone of my relatives, give the forty or fifty acres at the northeast
                                    unconditionally to the Hazelden Country Club 
                              
                                 1 The editing of the following letters was
                                            accomplished using photocopies of the typewritten originals found in the
                                            Archives Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            . In the first letter, four handwritten corrections, presumably
                                            made by George Ade, were added to the original typed copy. These corrections
                                            have been incorporated in this reproduction. Otherwise, except for minor
                                            changes in spacing, the letters have been transcribed exactly as they appear
                                            in photocopy.
                              
                                 2 A segment of State Road 16 in 
                                                Newton County
                                             was officially opened on October 8, 1932, with Governor Harry
                                            G. Leslie and other officials in attendance. Part of the ceremonies were
                                            held at Hazelden Farm. 
                                                Kentland
                                            , Indiana, 
                                    
                                                    Newton County
                                                 Enterprise, October 13, 1932.
                           
                                    
                                    
                              DRAWING BY JOHN T. MCCUTCHEON
                              
                              James Whitcomb Riley and Booth Tarkington are among those on the bench.
                              Reproduced from Fred C. Kelly, George Ade: Warmhearted
                                            Satirist (
                                                Indianapolis
                                            : The Bobbs-Merrill Co., 1947), facing p. 161. Courtesy Evelyn
                                            Shaw McCutcheon.
                           
                                    
                                    
                              RICHARD LIEBER
                              
                              c. 1919
                              Courtesy Wayne R. Guthrie, 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            
                                            News
                              
                           
                                     and give my home grounds with all of the
                                    buildings thereon and the woodland pasture to the south and all of the country
                                    beyond to the Iroquois River west of this tract to the State of Indiana, Department
                                    of Conservation, if it cares to accept it.3 As nearly as I can
                                    guess there would be in this tract between eighty and one hundred acres. Any of one
                                        [sic] your viewers or surveyors could readily determine the
                                    extent of it. The buildings on this tract include my home, a large garage, a storage
                                    house, a green house, a caretakers house with comfortable outbuildings, a cow
                                    stable, an ice house, a large pavilion for assemblages or dances, probably 50x35
                                    feet, a row of dressing rooms and shower bath along side of the swimming pool. My
                                    suggestion would be to throw a fence from the north and south putting the pavilion
                                    and the swimming pool into the general public park and leave the other buildings in
                                    my home grounds and making the admission to them somewhat more restricted, although
                                    I would not be disposed to make the slightest suggestion as to what those
                                    restrictions should be. The land which I am offering as a public park gets its value
                                    because it is adjacent to my home grounds which have became quite well known. Only a
                                    week ago we had four thousand people here to celebrate the opening of the state
                                    road. Part of the park I am describing is on high ground, suitable for camping, part
                                    ranges off into low lands toward the river and there is one dip in the ground
                                    between the north and south end but these low lands are wet only for a few weeks in
                                    the year and it might be that eventually you would want to connect up the whole
                                    thing with the river and make an interesting artificial lake of the low land.
                        I want to turn the whole tract over to the state so I will know it will be properly
                                    cared for. If it is something that the state can use I will be glad to learn the
                                    facts in the case. One thing is certain, we are giving them the beautiful home tract
                                    with a number of buildings and a very attractive setting. The state park would be
                                    entirely distinct from the Hazelden Country Club but the privileges of the Hazelden
                                    Country Club would be available to all visitors to the state park at a very
                                    reasonable rate, those who used the club could find food at the club house. If you
                                    could drive up this way some time 
                              
                                 3 This will was superceded by a new one signed March
                                            21, 1934, which was probated upon Ade's death in 1944. The will is
                                            filed in the office of the 
                                                Newton County
                                             clerk, 
                                                Kentland
                                            , Indiana, and a copy is held by the George Ade Memorial
                                            Association, 
                                                Kentland
                                            .
                           
                                     before the leaves fall off the trees and things
                                    look too bleak, you could look over our premises and look at some of the photographs
                                    of it as it appears in good weather and probably make up your mind in a hurry as to
                                    whether or not the whole proposition would interest you. It would go to your
                                    department without any strings attached to it and it would have this advantage, that
                                    is that the upkeep would be very low because we have every kind of building that
                                    might be needed for caretakers and their assistants, including residences, garages,
                                    green houses and store rooms etc. I shall be interested to hear from you at your
                                    convenience.
                        
                                    I am, with best wishes
                                    Sincerely,
                                    [signed] George Ade
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    October 17th 1932
                                
                        
                           
                              George Ade, Esquire,
                              Hazelden Farm,
                              Brook, Indiana.
                           
                                    Dear Mr. Ade:—
                        I read with very great interest your letter of October 16th. Last week Governor
                                    [Harry G.] Leslie spoke to me about the same matter. Of course I regretted my
                                    inability to be present at the celebration of the opening of the road. The occasion
                                    would have incidently [sic] furnished me with a better
                                    understanding of your property.
                        Off hand I should say Hazelden will not make a state park for I fear it would be the
                                    unmaking of Hazelden and its memories, but I hope to be able to submit to you a
                                    better idea to work out your own intentions. You see besides state parks we have a
                                    number of state memorials, such as the [James F. D.] Lanier Home, the Old State
                                    House, the Pigeon Roost Monument, the Nancy Hanks 
                                        Lincoln
                                     Burial Ground, the Tippecanoe Battleground and the George Rogers Clark
                                    Memorial coming in. Indiana has literary memories, not to speak of the present, and
                                    it is my hope to work out with you and such other friends as you may designate, a
                                    plan to have the George Ade Foundation prepare and maintain a literary museum at
                                    Hazelden. This would set aside your home as a shrine and at the same time would
                                    permit the good friends 
                                    
                              "A SORT of an APOLLO CLUB"
                              Seated, George Ade and Booth Tarkington Standing, James
                                            Whitcomb Riley and Meredith Nicholson
                              Courtesy Indiana Division, Indiana Sate Library, 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            
                              
                           
                                     and neighbors to come in and enjoy a quiet day
                                    in the open.
                        I find that I have to speak at Purdue around noon Wednesday, the 19th. If agreeable
                                    to you please wire me upon receipt of this letter and I shall drive up to Brook in
                                    the afternoon. You can intimate to me at that time how far my suggestion meets your
                                    own ideas and if so we can talk over the matter at sufficient length.
                        
                                    With kindest greetings, I am
                                    Sincerely yours,
                                    Richard Lieber.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    October 17th 1932
                                
                        
                           
                              Meredith Nicholson, Esquire,
                              
                                 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 , Indiana.
                           
                                    Dear Meredith:—
                        Only a brief note to tell you confidentially that George Ade wishes to turn over his
                                    delightful property to the State for public use. He thought of a state park. I
                                    disagree with him and think that we ought to make Hazelden into a Hoosier literary
                                    museum.
                        The thing is only in my mind and has not yet assumed any shape. What would be your
                                    reaction? Do you think the thought is worthwhile and how would you suggest to
                                    proceed, it being understood that the State would take possession, put the house in
                                    a condition of safety from fire and make a sort of an Apollo Club out of it with all
                                    members dead or absent.4
                        
                        I wrote George I would come up sometime this week and talk things over with him.
                                    Kindly keep the matter to yourself until we have a chance to formulate plans.
                        
                                    Sincerely yours,
                                    Richard Lieber.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  4 The original Apollo Club was composed of a circle of friends who met
                        under the auspices of Ben Johnson in the Apollo Room of the Devil Tavern in 
                            London
                         during the seventeenth century. Encyclopaedia Britannica (1961),
                        V, 858.
            
         
         
         
            Irregularity of IMH Mailings, 1933 and 1973
            "The Indiana Magazine of History is published quarterly by Indiana
                    University, the numbers being issued as of March, June, September, and December. The Editor is a regular member of the history department of the University… . Each
                    issue should be ready to mail by the end of the month in which it is scheduled to appear.
                    Unavoidable delays frequently occur, however, and issues sometimes appear from four to six weeks
                    late. Individual subscribers and libraries can count on receiving copies of the March issue by the
                    end of April, of the June number by the end of July, of the September number by the end of October
                    and of the December number by the first of January. That is, we are quite regular in our
                    irregularity, from which we derive some consolation, and trust that our readers may also be able to
                    extract comfort from the fact that they can predict with a fair degree of accuracy the date when any
                    issue is likely to be received."
            The above paragraph first appeared in the Indiana Magazine of History in June,
                    1933, during the editorship of Professor William O. Lynch. The present staff, in its zealous
                    exertions to make the irregularity of the magazine somewhat less regular, has taken steps to make
                    delayed mailings somewhat less common than those experienced by Editor Lynch. Ideally, subscribers
                    will receive numbers during the month for which they are dated, and the editor would be glad to be
                    informed whenever such is not the case. Meanwhile, the staff has derived much consolation and
                    extracted no little comfort from the realization that the frustrations of importunate deadlines and
                    the vicissitudes of a capricious mail service are not peculiar to the current generation.
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Robert Owen's American Legacy: Proceedings of the Robert Owen Bicentennial
                        Conference. Edited by Donald E. Pitzer. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1972. Pp.88. Illustration, notes. Paperbound,
                    $1.50.)
            Two communitarian experiments of the early nineteenth century left their mark on 
                        New Harmony
                    , making that small town in the southwestern corner of Indiana one of the
                    state's finest historical resources. The architectural environment of the village is in
                    large measure a legacy of the 
                        German
                     Harmonist followers of the stern, patriarchal Georg Rapp, but in the town's
                    spiritual atmosphere the outsider can detect something of the vision, the conflict, and perhaps even
                    the eccentricity that were part of the effort by Robert Owen to establish an intellectual oasis in
                    the Indiana backwoods.
            In so well endowed a setting, it should not have been expected that the observance of the bicentenary
                    of Owen's birth would be attended with the fol-de-rol and hoopla that often accompany
                    "historical" festivals. Directed by Professor Donald E. Pitzer of Indiana State
                    University, 
                        Evansville
                    , the organizers of the Robert Owen Bicentennial Conference, held at 
                        New Harmony
                     on October 15 and 16, 1971, were evidently determined that the event should reflect
                    something of Owen's own dedication to intellectualism. They were successful. In the words
                    of one of the participants in the conference, Owen was not merely commemorated, he was reconsidered
                    (p. 71).
            The approachable but very perceptive address by former Governor Roger D. Branigin,
                    "presented not as history but rather as the remarks of a friendly observer" (p.
                    14), was an excellent prelude to the presentation of four scholarly papers which attempted to place
                    Owen in the context of his period. In "Robert Owen's Quest for the New Moral World
                    in America," John F. C. Harrison of the University of 
                  Sussex, England
               , who is certainly
                    "the foremost contemporary historian of Robert Owen and the Owenite tradition" (p.
                    29), discuses  Owen's approach to the problems of his
                    time, with emphasis on the origins and significance of the concepts of community and education
                    through which he sought to bring about his envisioned new state of society. The other
                    papers—"Robert Owen and the Millenialist Tradition" by Robert G. Clouse
                    of Indiana State University, "Robert Owen in American Thought" by Merle Curti of
                    the University of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , and "Robert Owen and Philosophy" by Robert Ginsberg of the 
                        Delaware County
                     campus of Pennsylvania State University—focus on other important aspects of
                    Owen's thought and take Owen himself very seriously indeed.
            Uncontaminated by irrelevant anecdotes of misfits in the wilderness or the sly intimations of sexual
                    misconduct which characterize so much of the writing on the Owenite movement, these papers are not
                    light reading, nor could their content have been easily absorbed aurally. That the conferees were
                    equal to the task is demonstrated in the panel discussion which is produced almost
                    verbatim in this volume. The papers are real contributions to Owenite scholarship. Those who
                    arranged their presentation and now their preservation in published form are to be commended.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                Donald E. Baker
         
         
            
               Indiana Canals. By Paul Fatout. (West 
                        Lafayette
                    : Purdue University Studies, 1972. Pp. ix, 216. Map, illustrations, notes, bibliography,
                    index. $10.50.)
            Paul Fatout's book on Hoosier canals is the first modern work dealing with the subject at
                    length, and it will be welcomed by students of Indiana history and transportation. The author
                    provides a narrative account of Indiana's canal era, beginning with the agitation for a
                    canal around the falls of the Ohio River at 
                        Jeffersonville
                     in the early nineteenth century and continuing through the efforts to construct the
                    mammoth internal improvements system of the 1830s, the actual completion of the Wabash and 
                        Erie
                     Canal and parts of the Central and Whitewater canals, and, finally, the abandonment of
                    the remnants of the system by about the 1870s.
            The author's forte is his writing style. Fatout is an excellent  storyteller with a remarkable talent for involving the reader in his
                    subject and recapturing the spirit of the past. His obvious fascination with and love for Indiana
                    and its great canal adventures shine through every page. However, the book has weaknesses which will
                    frustrate the serious student. The footnoting style, while perhaps fashionable, is extremely
                    irritating. There is absolutely nothing in the text to indicate when, where, or if a statement is
                    footnoted. All of the notes are included in a section at the end of the book and are not numbered in
                    any way. Instead, they are listed under page references and identified through inclusion of
                    fragments of the sentences they are supposed to document or explain. This format does nothing to
                    ease the task of the reader.
            Beyond the peculiar style of footnoting, the documentation itself is exasperating. Explanatory
                    footnotes and documentation of small matters abound, but sweeping statements and specific
                    statistical information with absolutely no reference to the materials consulted are omnipresent.
                    There are many statements in this book which are certainly open to question, and the author would
                    have better served both himself and his readers by providing adequate evidence of the sources behind
                    his reasoning.
            Fatout's bibliography and footnotes indicate that he apparently did consult a large and
                    varied body of material. However, he depended most heavily upon contemporary newspapers and state
                    legislative journals. He lists a number of primary sources in the Indiana State Library and other
                    collections, but his narrative and citations do not indicate that he has done an exhaustive job of
                    research in many of them, particularly the records of the Wabash and 
                        Erie
                     Canal in the Archives Division of the Indiana State Library.
            Finally, the author does not seriously attempt to fit the Indiana internal improvements picture into
                    the national or regional scene or to assess fully its economic impact on the state. Indiana Canals is a readable book, handsomely designed and produced, and it provides a
                    pleasant introduction into the Indiana canal era. It cannot, however, be regarded as the definitive
                    work on the subject.
            
               
                  
                            Memphis
                         State University, 
                            Memphis
                        
                James E. Fickle
         
         
         
            
               The Kentucky Rifle. By Merrill Lindsay. Photographs by Bruce Pendleton. (York,
                    Pa.: The Historical Society of York County, 1972. Pp. [100]. Illustrations. $15.00.)
            The name "Kentucky rifle" is intrinsically such a misnomer that even omnivorous
                    Kentuckians who stand ready on the glimmer of a legend to claim all things realize the rifle
                    originated elsewhere. Merrill Lindsay, the author of this book, is somewhat less than clear in his
                    explanation of the origin of the name "
                        Kentucky
                    ," except to say Kentucky frontiersmen bought their guns in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . He all but implies a connection between the name of the gun and the Battle of 
                        New Orleans
                    , and between the gun and Samuel Woodworth's famous ballad, "The
                    Hunters of 
                        Kentucky
                    ." Drawing a fine line of distinction between a true "Kentucky
                    rifle" in the classic sense and the common mountaineer's "hog
                    rifle," Lindsay no doubt is correct in saying that few Kentucky rifles were made in that
                    state. There were, however, some local gunsmiths. There is a thesis in the University of Kentucky
                    graduate collection which gives at least some of the history of the state's gunsmiths.
            Lindsay has divided the gun types of Kentucky rifles into the products of "schools"
                    which are defined in terms of local places in Pennsylvania and 
                        North Carolina
                     where gunsmiths gave their products distinctive trim and form. There can be no question
                    that the author has assembled a fine representative sampling of the handiwork of "the more
                    creative gunsmiths of the 18th and 19th centuries." He has traced European influences as
                    they were merged with American modifications and innovations.
            The superb photographic exhibits illustrating this book clearly detail the Kentucky rifle's
                    characteristics and varying types. The succinct paragraphs describing the individual illustrations
                    collectively comprise a technical history of Pennsylvania gunmaking. Generally there are some common
                    features of the rifle, no matter to which school the maker belonged, which show considerable
                    conformity. These were long barrels, usually rifled, long and graceful stocks which extended forward
                    into graceful barrel and lock cradles. Most of the stocks were made from magnificent bolts of crotch
                    walnut or tiger maple and were carved with a considerable 
                    variety of graceful designs and figures. There were cheek pieces or rests, butts were brass bound,
                    patch boxes were elaborate brass utilities as well as ornamentations, and there were frequently
                    handsome cheek piece metal plates. The flint or breech mechanism differed in design from maker to
                    maker, but not in fundamental principles. This was also true of the trigger and guard mechanism.
            The brass and silver trimmings placed on the Kentucky rifles by the Pennsylvania and 
                        North Carolina
                     gunsmiths, including the elaborate stock carvings, have a strong flavor of American
                    folk adaptations of old world rococo design and motif. Occasionally a silver plate reflected the
                    spirit of American nationalism by use of the spread eagle, even though the eagles' heads
                    were more often 
                        German
                     or Austrian in character. Some adornments reflected the American passion for hunting in
                    the use of animal figures.
            A section of the book is devoted to the "Kentucky pistol." These graceful elbow
                    shaped weapons were as intricately carved and filigreed as were the rifles themselves. In fact they
                    seem almost hand varieties of the long guns.
            This is a well conceived book which gives in precise detail the background of muzzleloading flintlock
                    rifle history. It grew out of the labors of Joe Kindig, Jr., who sought to draw together an exhibit
                    of the finest specimens of rifles made between 1760 and 1860 but who died before the exhibit was
                    completed in the York County Historical Museum. The photographs are so excellently done that the
                    reader loses all sense that he is looking at instruments of death and destruction, but he can rather
                    see them as superb folk artistic creations which formed a bridge between old world and American
                    frontier cultures. In dealing with both the precisions and subtleties of writing about guns, Lindsay
                    has demonstrated in his text a high degree of technical confidence growing out of good scholarship.
                    This book surely must meet even the most hypercritical approval of the confirmed gun collector and
                    student. The gun is presented here as a firearm and not as an instrument influencing the spread of
                    population or as the deciding factor in military conflict.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                Thomas D. Clark
         
         
         
            
               The Partisan Spirit: Kentucky Politics, 1779–1792. By Patricia
                    Watlington. (
                        New York
                    : Atheneum, for the Institute of Early American History and Culture at
                            
                  Williamsburg, Virginia
               , 1972. Pp. viii, 276. Notes, bibliography, index.
                    $12.95.)
            "Heaven is a Kentucky of a place!" said one frontier preacher, but few of the early
                    inhabitants were angelic. It was the urge for land which inspired men to migrate to 
                        Kentucky
                    , and according to Professor Watlington land questions divided them into political
                    parties, two at first, then three. Those who study other states would do well to imitate her careful
                    examination of land matters, for land was the basis of prosperity and status on every frontier.
            Virginians, especially the county surveyors and later the legal guild, formed an "articulate
                    center in a diverse society" (p. 43) and thought themselves the proper leaders of the
                    district. They were opposed by non-
                        Virginia
                    's and the landless in general who felt cheated by 
                        Virginia
                    's land policy, particularly the act of 1779. Termed
                    "partisans" by their betters, the latter group formed a self conscious opposition
                    seeking support from the Continental Congress and a general reallocation of land.
            In 1783–1784 the nature of the dispute changed sharply as land questions faded after 
                        Virginia
                    's claims were upheld. The center divided. A "court party" of
                    judges and lawyers, centering about the notorious James Wilkinson, favored commercial development
                    and separation from Virginia while secretly dealing with Spanish officials at 
                        New Orleans
                    . The surveyors, now a "country party" of large landowners, also came
                    to favor separation, but only through orderly legal procedures giving full protection to their land.
                    By 1786 everyone had shifted positions, with the partisans now active against a separation that
                    their enemies would control.
            The shifting fortunes of these three parties are explained as fully as the sources permit, but much
                    remains vague, particularly the reasons for a marked lack of popular interest in politics.
                    Watlington shows that the Spanish Conspiracy was far wider and more important than most scholars
                    believe. By 1787 the country party, led by the Marshall family, prevailed and finally achieved
                    statehood in 1792 under a court  and country constitution. Their
                    rivalry continued for many years, with most federal appointments going to court men who in time
                    became Republicans, while the country party turned Federalist.
            The author skillfully defends her use of "party," rightly anticipating the
                    criticism she has received. Her usage seems legitimate enough, for the word was certainly often
                    employed in the controversies she so carefully elucidates. She knows well that "politics in
                    Kentucky was largely a matter of personal friendships and antipathies" (p. 156), frequently
                    involving the quarrelsome Humphrey Marshall, although these relationships were at times obscured.
                    Perhaps if she had used the phrase "court interest" in the eighteenth century
                    British fashion, those who worry so over "party" would study more carefully the
                    valuable substance of this work, which is based solidly on painstaking examination of scattered and
                    sometimes sparse sources. They should also heed her warning that Kentucky attitudes simply do not
                    fit the liberal and conservative categories cherished by so many observers of the frontier. Kentucky
                    politics, Watlington concludes, were never conventional—or as Judge Mulligan put it so
                    long ago:
            Thunder peals the loudest, The landscape is the grandest, And politics—the
                    damnedest—In 
                        Kentucky
                    .
            
               Indiana University, 
                            South Bend
                        
                Patrick J. Furlong
         
         
            
               A History of 
                            Missouri
                        . Volume II, 1820 to 1860. By Perry McCandless. Missouri Sesquicentennial History. Edited by William E. Parrish. (
                        Columbia
                    : University of Missouri Press, 1972. Pp. ix, 325. Notes, maps, essay on sources, index.
                    $9.50.)
            In this second volume of The Missouri Sesquicentennial History, a five volume
                    series being published in commemoration of the 150th anniversary of 
                        Missouri
                    's statehood, Professor Perry McCandless traces the story of Missouri and its
                    people through the formative years between statehood and the Civil War. The author has developed a
                    concise and sound synthesis based on extensive research in both primary and secondary sources, and
                    the result is a well balanced history  that describes and
                    analyzes the social, political, and economic growth of the state. Because the format of the series
                    calls for a general survey of each chronological period rather than a highly detailed study,
                    footnotes have been limited to explanatory matters.
            McCandless is at his best when dealing with political history. Effectively using the career and
                    personality of Thomas Hart Benton to connect 
                        Missouri
                    's history with that of the nation, he details the state's political
                    development and the role it played in both regional and national history. Benton looms as a giant on
                    both the state and national levels, and a thorough and sound knowledge of his life permits
                    McCandless to write a masterful account of 
                        Missouri
                    's place in national politics during the first half of the nineteenth century.
            The treatment of social and cultural history in this study does not measure up to the standards of
                    the discussion of politics. For example, 
                        German
                     culture in 
                        Missouri
                    , especially as regards 
                        German
                     newspapers and the theater, could have been more thoroughly analyzed. There are also
                    weaknesses in the handling of religious history, where, for one thing, McCandless inaccurately
                    states that the cooperative Plan of Union between the Presbyterians and the Congregationalists in 
                        Missouri
                     "was discarded" in 1840 (p. 209). Actually, the Plan of Union
                    continued until 1857 when the New School Presbyterian Church split over slavery. On the other hand,
                    McCandless' discussion of education in Missouri is both complete and accurate.
            McCandless focuses his volume primarily on 
                        Missouri
                    's involvement in the sectional issues which ultimately led to civil war. In
                    1820, when Missouri was at the center of the rising sectional controversy, he finds a homogeneous
                    people "united in their demands for statehood without restriction on slavery." In
                    1860, McCandless sees 
                        Missouri
                     "torn internally" by the sectional issues involving slavery in the
                    nation. He considers that the primary reason for this change was the growth of cultural diversity, a
                    result of immigration from Europe and migration from the North which brought diversification of the
                    economy and new ideas that challenged the social system of the old sectional ties (pp. ix, 289).
            Missourians organized and directed the trans-
                        Mississippi
                    
                     fur trade as well as the Santa Fe trade, and McCandless clearly
                    delineates the advantages and importance of the state's key geographical location as the
                    gateway to the Far West. Its unique geographical position determined that Missouri would play a
                    significant role in both southern and western history.
            As represented by this volume, The Missouri Sesquicentennial History is a useful
                    contribution to both local and national history. It sets a standard of balance that could well be
                    followed by similar projects in other states.
            
               
                  
                            Morehead
                         State University 
                            Morehead
                        , Ky. Victor B. Howard
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Illinois
                        : A History of the 
                            Prairie
                         State. By Robert P. Howard. (Grand Rapids, Mich.: William B. Eerdmans
                    Publishing Company, 1972. Pp. xxiv, 626. Illustrations, notes, maps, appendices, bibliography,
                    index. $10.95.)
            It has been fifty years since anyone undertook to write a comprehensive history of 
                        Illinois
                    . In that sense Robert Howard's book was long overdue, but it was worth the
                    wait. 
                  
                            Illinois
                        : A History of the 
                            Prairie
                         State ranks as the definitive account of an important subject in American
                    state and local history and as a model of the state history genre.
            The author, a veteran journalist and resident of the state capital in 
                        Springfield
                    , exercised both head and heart in a task that took more than six years. His twenty-five
                    page bibliography reflects exhaustive knowledge of the published literature, and his narrative
                    incorporates the most recent findings and interpretations. At the same time, Howard was motivated by
                    "a deep affection for the state and its people" (p. xxiv) acquired during a full
                    career of travel and work throughout the state. That attachment is evident in his attention to
                    colorful details and personalities in the story but not in his assessments, which are honest and
                    critical.
            Howard refrains from any grand design or majestic themes; three hundred years of history and the
                    lives of millions of citizens are not susceptible to such simple generalization. Neither does he
                    advance many fresh or revisionist interpretations; this book necessarily rests upon the published
                    monographs and specialized studies of other historians.  Rather,
                    he chronicles in rich detail the historical development of 
                        Illinois
                    , noting in the text or footnotes those instances in which he has waded through an
                    historian's controversy or incorporated the findings and judgments of recent scholarship.
            A dilemma to historians of 
                        Illinois
                    , just as to state politicians, is the division between Cook County and downstate. It is
                    tempting and sometimes appropriate to treat such a subject independently, but Howard chose the more
                    difficult job of interrelating it into the complex political and economic history of the entire
                    state. He is at his best dealing with those topics which were central to his work as a legislative
                    correspondent: political, constitutional, and institutional history. He also devotes generous
                    attention to railroads, internal improvements, banking, industry, and other economic matters. There
                    is interesting information on such diverse subjects as slavery, the early moviemaking industry in 
                        Chicago
                    , pioneer aviation and automobile manufacturing, world's fairs, gangsterism
                    after World War I, coal mining and union strife, and the home front during World War II.
            There are a few disappointing lapses and omissions in this comprehensive story. State parks and the
                    park system are neglected, as is that colorful institution, the Illinois State Fair. The reader
                    looks in vain for references to Frank Lloyd Wright, Robert M. Hutchins, John Dewey, or R.
                    Buckminster Fuller, who made significant contributions and international reputations while living in 
                        Illinois
                    . While Howard does discuss major Illinois poets and 
                        Chicago
                    's literary renaissance, he fails to cover the lives and works of novelists who
                    wrote about 
                        Chicago
                    : Theodore Dreiser, Frank Norris, and Sherwood Anderson.
            Similarly but less important, the index contains errors and inconsistencies, chiefly in the form of
                    omissions and failures to cross index proper names and subject headings. There are some useful maps,
                    but the cartographer apparently was not interested in the past century of Illinois history; the
                    final map traces the extent of the 
                        Chicago
                     Fire of 1871. Future editions of the book would be improved by the addition of maps
                    portraying such transportation networks as the interurbans of the early 1900s, modern day railroad
                    lines, and the interstate highway system and also by representations  of the state park system and historical shifts in population density.
                    However, the illustrations, tables, chronology, and bibliography are of excellent quality and help
                    make this book a useful reference work as well as outstanding history.
            
               Sangamon State University, 
                            Springfield
                        
                Cullom Davis
         
         
            
               The 
                            Prairie
                         School: Frank Lloyd Wright and His Midwest Contemporaries. By H. Allen Brooks. (
                        Toronto
                    : University of 
                        Toronto
                     Press, 1972. Pp. xxiii, 373. Illustrations, notes, figures, index. $25.00.)
            H. Allen Brooks has written a book as ordered as is the design of the 
                        Prairie
                     School architects. He relates simply and in an intact context that rather complex and
                    scattered style of building often confused with the 
                        Chicago
                     School. The author describes the difference between the two schools and documents his
                    findings to clarify the distinctions and characteristics of each style, putting each in its proper
                    time and place.
            While establishing this difference in the reader's mind, the author identifies the link
                    between the two schools as Louis H. Sullivan, the only architect involved in both. In fact, Brooks
                    further honors him, as did Frank Lloyd Wright, as "the Master," since the work of
                    the 
                        Prairie
                     School, the later of the two styles, was accomplished primarily by Sullivan's
                    students. The author enumerates the architects of the 
                        Prairie
                     School as Louis H. Sullivan, Frank Lloyd Wright, Walter Burley Griffin, George Grant
                    Elmslie, William Gray Purcell, Barry Byrne, Hugh M. G. Garden, Richard E. Schmidt, Robert C.
                    Spenser, Jr., William E. Drummond, Marion Mahony, Thomas E. Tallmadge, 
                        Vernon
                     Watson, Dwight H. Perkins, John S. Van Bergen, Percy Dwight Bentley, Francis C.
                    Sullivan, Parker N. Berry, and "more peripherally," George W. Maher, Arthur Heun,
                    George Dean, and many others (p. 8). With the 
                        Prairie
                     School thus clearly defined, the interaction between the architects and the existing
                    social environment is illuminated, bringing into clearer focus the meaning and rationale of the
                    resultant buildings.
            The author's examples are clear and accurate representations  of each 
                        Prairie
                     School architect's work and ability. The photographs are helpful in
                    reinforcing the data presented in the text, and supplemental footnotes provide information to those
                    readers interested in further research. At times the prose seems highly technical, but it reflects
                    the enthusiasm of an author who has been deeply involved with his subject matter over many years of
                    study.
            This book is published at a time when demolition, the plague of all historical periods, threatens or
                    has already struck many of the buildings described, and the information presented will be a timeless
                    record to those of the future, who will have only the photographs for reference. The book may well
                    become the most reliable record of the 
                        Prairie
                     School, a short period of architecture which has had a significant effect on nearly all
                    the styles of architecture of the twentieth century.
            
               Union Station Incorporated, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                Dana J. Florestano
         
         
            
               The New Citizenship: Origins of Progressivism in 
                            Wisconsin
                        , 1885–1900. By David P. Thelen. (
                        Columbia
                    : University of Missouri Press, 1972. Pp. 340. Notes, essay on sources, index.
                    $12.00.)
            Thelen's highly original study captures the spirit of early progressivism better than any
                    other historian this reviewer has read. He describes and explains the Wisconsin reformers'
                    sense of anger at "corporate arrogance" with such conviction that at times it is
                    not possible to separate the views of the author from those of his subjects. Where the Gilded Age
                    mugwump had hoped to reform society by altering the individual through education and moral suasion,
                    the progressive held "special interests" responsible for many social ills and
                    urged their control by concerted political action. The early progressives' "major
                    accomplishment was the creation of a yardstick—`the public
                    interest'—that provided the thrust to Wisconsin progressivism as it united
                    diverse groups against selfish and special interests in their communities… . The
                    significant point about the concept of the public interest was that it created a new mass politics
                    that united men as consumers and taxpayers in opposition to the 
                    old politics that was based on ethnic and producer identities" (p. 308).
            Thelen recalls the historian's attention from class and psychological analysis to the
                    significance of events in creating social movements—in this case, convincingly
                    demonstrating the catalytic effect of the panic and ensuing depression of 1893–1897
                    following a decade of explosive urban and industrial development. He also reminds the reader that
                    the state or national leaders of such movements often reap a harvest already planted and cultivated
                    by others at the local or regional level. In this case John 
                        Butler
                     of the 
                        Milwaukee
                     Municipal League, John Bardon and the Ashland Civic Federation, and Richard T. Ely of
                    the University of Wisconsin sowed the seeds of the new progressivism for the better part of a decade
                    before Robert M. La Follette gathered in their sheaves to become the state's best known
                    political reformer.
            Thelen, however, pays for working primarily within the progressive tradition and concentrating so
                    much upon events. He needs at times to step outside the progressives' categories and beyond
                    the traditional ways of using newspapers to identify clearly those elements of the population most
                    susceptible to progressivism and to explain adequately the opposition to reform. If the early
                    progressives truly unified "men from all classes as consumers, taxpayers, and
                    citizens" and "combined workers and businessmen, foreign-born and native-born,
                    Populists and Republicans, drinkers and abstainers, Catholics and Protestants," then who
                    formed that narrow majority which turned back the progressives at the 
                        Milwaukee
                     polls in the crucial 1900 election (p. 288)? Were there no important constituent
                    differences between Populists, Democrats, and progressives? To be convinced, one requires more
                    evidence than the reformers' hopes or claims that they appealed to a cross section of the
                    urban population. One needs to know, furthermore, much more about the vast rural areas of the state,
                    some of which provided La Follette's rather important early political base and without
                    which progressivism might not have made a lasting impact upon state politics. Thelen's
                    desire to avoid a producer oriented analysis has also led to some analytical sloppiness, as when he
                    describes both petit bourgeois craftsmen and factory laborers as "workers"  and corner druggists and international traders as
                    "businessmen." His expert presentation of the Wisconsin progressive's
                    vision does not still those persistent questions about the material, class, and social conditions
                    which lay beneath reform, but Thelen has placed them in a significantly new perspective.
            
               DePauw University, 
                            Greencastle
                        
                James L. Cooper
         
         
            
               In His Image, But …: Racism in Southern Religion,
                    1780–1910. By H. Shelton Smith. (Durham: Duke University Press, 1972. Pp. x, 318.
                    Notes, index. $8.50.)
            Our nation has been full of white racism from the start; blacks have been counted as inferior and
                    degrading, even if useful. Thomas Jefferson wanted blacks out of slavery but also out of the
                    country. Patrick Henry could lament the slavery of Negroes but be "drawn along by ye
                    general inconvenience of living without them" (p. 23).
            Our nation's churches also have been full of white racism. There were a few crusaders
                    against slavery; a Woolman, O'Kelly, or Bourne could pay a high price to sharpen
                    sensibilities. However, most church members managed to reconcile black servitude with Christianity.
                    If they became at all uneasy within their inherited institutions, they were ready with an arsenal of
                    biblical texts and social myths to put down any assaults of conscience. Perhaps the marvel is that
                    racism could predominate but never quite take unquestioned rule. Some small base for appeal and for
                    correction was always preserved among the churches, black and white. It was a base to be well used
                    in the latter half of the twentieth century.
            Professor H. Shelton Smith limits his topic clearly. He intends to tell the story of racism in
                    southern churches 1780–1910. The book turns out to be a superior one. After forty years
                    as a teacher of American church history, Smith moves easily among the sources. A novice in the field
                    may pant a little at Smith's pace but will appreciate his economy which wastes no words.
                    The graduate scholar will find the documentation respectable and conveniently placed. It is useful
                    to read this monograph with a Bible at hand. The title itself 
                    is based upon Genesis 1:27; certain biblical texts were keystones of the southern case.
            Sometimes there is retrospective humor in the account. Here are otherwise sensible men solemnly
                    inferring God's blessing on racism from the account of Shem, Ham, and Japheth in Genesis 9
                    or from some strange interweaving of Leviticus 25:44–46 with a generous measure of self
                    interest. In the main it is a tragic story with a few heroes but almost no characters capable of
                    transcending their own time and place to advocate genuine freedom. No denomination in the American
                    South has a good record on racism; even the Quakers came to conviction late and at great cost. The
                    uniformity of white supremacy notions is depressing. The abolitionists themselves were often stoutly
                    racist.
            Racism was the crucial social issue of Smith's chosen period. The alliance of churches with
                    anti-Negro forces assured that the racist issues would not be fairly met or settled. Churches
                    supported the Confederacy in order to preserve the institution of slavery. After the war the
                    churches helped fashion patterns of white supremacy to keep the black "in his
                    place." So the wound of racism was passed along to newer generations, constantly bruised
                    but never healed.
            
               Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                L. C. Rudolph
         
         
            
               The Booker T. Washington Papers. Volume I, The Autobiographical
                        Writings. Edited by Louis R. Harlan; assistant editor, John W. Blassingame. Volume II, 1860–89. Edited by Louis R. Harlan; assistant editors, Pete Daniel,
                    Stuart B. Kaufman, Raymond W. Smock; William M. Welty, fellow in historical editing. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of Illinois Press, 1972. Pp. xl, 469; xl, 557. Notes, illustrations, maps,
                    bibliography, indices. $15.00 per volume.)
            Some historians have recently observed, with scant effort to conceal their indignation, that
                    virtually all current projects to publish the papers of great Americans serve to perpetuate an
                    elitist and hence inadequate version of history. These published collections, critics point out,
                    exclude such numerically significant groups as the poor and ethnic minorities  as well as the vast and otherwise undefined mass of American humanity
                    now modishly designated as "the inarticulate." Thus is our understanding of the
                    past rendered faulty and incomplete and the historical role of the majority unacknowledged as well
                    as uncommemorated.
            Publication of the Booker T. Washington papers should help satisfy these objections. Not that 
                        Washington
                     himself in his palmy days was clearly excluded from the elite! A magisterial figure,
                    despite his humble origin and black complexion, he eventually enjoyed greater power on the national
                    scene than almost any of his white southern contemporaries. Indeed, if the present collection were
                    confined solely to 
                        Washington
                    's own writings, one would have ground for consigning the enterprise to the
                    same "elitist" category to which critics contend practically all the other
                    projects now supported by the National Historical Publications Commission belong. But such
                    categorization is not in this instance appropriate; for the editors have adopted an extended
                    selective principle that allows them to include not only letters from 
                        Washington
                    's own hand but also letters addressed to him and a variety of other documents
                    related to his life and work. Thus there is presented an array of items emanating not so much from
                    establishment figures as from obscure blacks and others who hitherto have scarcely been represented
                    at all in published documentary collections. It need hardly be pointed out that the recovery of such
                    material should prove of inestimable utility in expanding awareness of the character, activity, and
                    aspirations of persons until now all but lost to formal history.
            While republication of 
                        Washington
                    's full scale autobiographies and of his autobiographical articles as volume
                    one of the series is appropriate and welcome, it is the second volume, comprising the initial
                    installment of his manuscripts, that constitutes the major achievement. As would be expected of a
                    man born in slavery, 
                        Washington
                    's early years are sparsely documented. Yet the editors resourcefully located
                    census records to confirm early traces of his existence; and to chart his emergence from utter
                    anonymity, they uncovered such sobering information as the fact that at the age of five this future
                    adviser of presidents was valued in the inventory of his master's estate as worth
                    $400. Sixteen fat hogs on the same occasion were worth $128. While much in the
                    collection  concerns life at Hampton Institute when 
                        Washington
                     studied and taught there, the focus naturally is on the founding and first years of
                    Tuskegee Institute, the period when 
                        Washington
                     constructed the base on which his later power and eminence rested. But even here the
                    importance of the material lies less in tracing a great man's early achievements than in
                    documenting the activities of hitherto faceless people engaged in momentous efforts of self
                    improvement at a critical time and an inauspicious place.
            Readers with varying interests can find much of value in these publications. They may also be
                    persuaded that those who assert the wisdom of according greater attention to the seldom acknowledged
                    molders of our past are not merely captious in their critiques and proposals.
            
               The Ohio State University, 
                            Columbus
                        
                Merton L. Dillon
         
         
            
               The American Mail: Enlarger of the Common Life. By Wayne E. Fuller. The 
                            Chicago
                         History of American Civilization. Edited by Daniel J. Boorstin. (
                        Chicago
                    : The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1972. Pp. xi, 378. Bibliographical essay, index. $8.95.)
            Despite the somewhat innocuous title, Professor Fuller has written an exceptionally good and long
                    needed account of the American postal service from its colonial beginnings through the Postal
                    Reorganization Act of 1970. The work is immeasurably enhanced by the author's ability to
                    weave postal history into the broader fabric of the American past. His descriptions of the
                    relationship between the postal revisions of Queen Anne's Act and the later Stamp Act
                    controversy, the effect of Benjamin 
                        Franklin
                    's improved postal service on the solidarity of the colonies during the 1760s,
                    the appalling financial condition and the growth of postal service during the heyday of
                    Jacksonianism, the emerging struggles between rural and urban America, and the overriding issue of
                    whether the postal service should pay for itself are cases in point. In all of these areas Fuller
                    outlines the problems and draws the necessary implications. There are, in addition, several
                    chapters—"Bond of Union," "Expansionism and the Post
                    Office," and "Government Business vs. Private Business—which  are well organized and serve to tie together the chronological
                    development of the story.
            As Fuller demonstrates throughout his book, the Post Office was inevitably drawn into national
                    controversies. Worthy of special notice are his remarks concerning slave mail carriers and the
                    southern fear of slave conspiracy. Fuller dates the closing of the southern mind on the slavery
                    question as early as 1802, when concern was expressed that allowing Negroes to carry the mail would
                    afford an opportunity "of associating, acquiring, and communicating sentiments, and of
                    establishing a chain or line of intelligence" that would encourage insurrection (p. 90).
                    Then, too, as the author explains, southern opinion was solidified before the Civil War partly
                    because of the expansion of the mail service into the backcountry. Just as the mail facilitated the
                    spread of abolitionist literature in the North and West, so the extension of mail service into the
                    Southwest during the 1850s provided a greater audience for the southern newspapers and fiery
                    pamphlets which helped to build the imposing edifice of southern nationalism and sentiment.
            Fuller is at his best when discussing the relationship of the postal service to the free enterprise
                    system. In an era of vocal dedication to laissez faire, Congress chose to pursue a
                    "socialistic experiment" in government owned business while at the same time,
                    almost as an apology for that decision, allowing the growing railroad monopolies to gouge the public
                    with excessive charges for mail transportation. Never could it be claimed that the government was
                    competing with the business community in an economic venture. The author also relates a fascinating
                    history of the franking privilege, the businessman's discovery of second class postal laws,
                    the impact of postal laws on the paperback book industry, and the development of rural free
                    delivery.
            Fuller's work would have benefited from an effort to provide more comparative history.
                    Although he begins the book with a brief survey of the development of mail services from the time of
                    the Persians and Romans, he tends in later chapters to describe the American postal system too much
                    in a vacuum. If, as he suggests, the postal system cut broad swaths through American politics, then
                    surely a remark or two concerning postal systems in other nations in the nineteenth  century might have added strength and validity to his thesis. Then,
                    too, the author provided only a minimum coverage of the Confederate postal service. Fuller might
                    also have investigated more fully the development of the postal savings banks, and there is an
                    interesting history yet to be written on the relationship between the mail and Populism, northern
                    philanthropy, and black history in the late nineteenth century. These criticisms, however, are only
                    incidental and do not detract from an excellent study of the American mail.
            
               Indiana University, Northwest John S. Haller, Jr.
         
         
            
               The Citizen Soldiers: The Plattsburg Training Camp Movement,
                    1913–1920. By John Garry Clifford. (
                        Lexington
                    : The University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , for the Organization of American Historians, 1972. Pp. ix, 326. Notes, bibliographical
                    essay, index. $9.50.)
            The outbreak of World War I in Europe was a signal for the formation of a large number of
                    citizens' groups in the 
                        United States
                    , each designed to further some specific set of national goals. Each group devised an
                    impressive letterhead stationery, printed on it a list of distinguished names to give their
                    principles added weight, and set out to agitate for armed neutrality, a league to enforce peace,
                    some form or another of "patriotism," or one kind or another of
                    "pacifism."
            Professor Clifford has written the story of one of those organizations, the volunteer training camp
                    movement which advocated preparedness, military training for all able bodied men, and the careful
                    professional training of a non-political officer corps. The movement had its origins in a series of
                    college training camps which were started even before the European war began. A group of 
                        Harvard
                     graduates, well to do and of the "best sort," developed that idea
                    into the famous and well publicized Plattsburg, 
                        New York
                    , training camp for businessmen in the summer of 1915. From that time onward, the task
                    of this group was to further the "Plattsburg idea," both through ceaseless and
                    ever expanding organization and publicity and through their considerable influence within the War
                    Department and Congress. They started  camps all over the
                    country and set up local committees to recruit and publicize, they influenced federal legislation on
                    defense policy starting with the Defense Act of 1916, and they became so proficient and
                    indispensible that by the end of the war they actually occupied a quasi-official position as
                    recruiters for officer training. In all their efforts the Plattsburgers were led and guided by a
                    remarkable young lawyer from 
                        New York
                    , Grenville Clark, who emerges from this study as a man of talent, good sense,
                    organizational ability, and reformist zeal.
            Some will complain that the story is too narrowly conceived—that Clifford does not deal as
                    fully, for example, with the opposition to the Plattsburgers as he does with the inner clique
                    itself. But on the whole, the book is superb. It is a model of tight organization, sound research,
                    and clear and colorful writing. Clifford moves his narrative forward with his eye fixed on the
                    particular story he is telling, but he is wise enough to realize that the story is affected by
                    presidential elections, events on the battlefields of Europe, vested interests within the military
                    community, the currents of public opinion, and the unpredictabilities of American politics.
            It is not hard to see why this book won the prestigious Frederick 
                        Jackson
                     Turner prize. It is a fine contribution to an understanding of the development of
                    American military policy.
            
               The University of 
                     Oklahoma,
                                Norman
                  
                David W. Levy
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               The Encyclopedic Directory of 
                            Clay County
                        , Indiana, Giving A List of the Householders of the County, Their Post-office
                        Address, Occupation, Location, School District, Section Number, Township, Politics, Religion,
                        Assessed Value of Real Estate, Nationality, Where Born, When Born, When Came to 
                            Clay County
                        , Etc., Including a Map of 
                            Clay County
                        , Also Seventeen Cities and Towns of 
                            Clay County
                        , in Separate Forms, Half-Tone Cuts of Prominent Citizens, Public Buildings, Etc.,
                        Etc. Reprint. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Hoosier Heritage Press, 1971. Pp. 139, [25]. Illustrations, index. Paperbound,
                    $3.00.) Only three comments, in addition to the title, need be made concerning this
                    volume: it includes brief biographical sketches of a few prominent citizens and short descriptions
                    of important buildings and businesses in 
                        Clay County
                    ; the original work was published in 1896 by C. E. Welman and Edward H. Thirey; the book
                    is most interesting, informative, and unique. Lorna Lutes Sylvester, Indiana
                        University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               Annals of Pioneer Settlers on the Whitewater and Its Tributaries, in the Vicinity of 
                            Richmond
                        , Ind., from 1804 to 1830 … . By a native. Reprint. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Hoosier Heritage Press, Inc., 1971. Pp. 59. Illustrations, appendix. Paperbound,
                    $2.00.) Originally published in 1875, this booklet contains the "historical
                    reminiscences" of a resident of the Whitewater River valleys in east central Indiana.
                    Included are "Incidents, Anecdotes, &c. of Early Times and the Era of Log
                    Cabins"; descriptions of the "Privations and Hardships" endured by
                    settlers in pioneer Indiana; and a somewhat fanciful account of 
                        Richmond
                     as it appeared in 1875 to one who had supposedly been "away from the
                    world" for almost half a century. Advertisements of 
                        Richmond
                     businesses in the 1870s add to the interest of the volume. Lorna Lutes
                        Sylvester, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
            
               Creating Independence, 1763–1789: A Selected Annotated Bibliography.
                    Compiled by Margaret N. Coughlan. (
                        Washington
                    : Library of Congress, 1972. Pp. 62. Illustrations. Paperbound, $.75.) This
                    annotated guide to books for "young people" concerning the American Revolution
                    should be quite helpful to teachers, librarians, and others willing to use it in a thoughtful
                    manner. The proposed reading age is not explicitly stated, but apparently most of the books
                    suggested are considered suitable for good readers from at least junior high school level. The
                    booklet may be purchased from the Superintendent of Documents, 
                        United States
                     Government Printing Office, 
                        Washington
                    , D.C. 20402.
            
               Selected Examples of Architecture in the Tri-State Area of Indiana, 
                            Kentucky
                        , and 
                            Illinois
                        . (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Junior Historical Society, 1972. Pp. 43. Illustrations. Pamphlet,
                    $1.00); Oh, The Moonlight's Fair Tonight Along the 
                            Wabash
                        . (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Junior Historical Society, 1972. Pp. 66. Illustrations. Pamphlet,
                    $1.00.) The content of the first of these volumes, compiled by the Indiana Junior
                    Historical Society in cooperation with the Kentucky Young Historians Association and the Illinois
                    Council of Student Historians, is suggested by its title. The second booklet gives emphasis to
                    architectural structures along the Wabash River from the Ohio state line down to its mouth but also
                    includes pictures of scenery and historical markers along the way. Both publications represent the
                    continuing contribution of the Indiana Junior Historical Society to architectural study in Indiana,
                    and they are prepared in the format to which persons who have used previous studies have become
                    accustomed. Hence, pictures are numerous and commentary is modest, but, nonetheless, considerable
                    information is offered readers and viewers.
            
               My Life and Experiences Among Our Hostile Indians … . By Oliver O.
                    Howard. Reprint. New introduction by Robert M. Utley. (
                        New York
                    : Da Capo Press, 1972. Pp. xvii, 570. Illustrations, notes, suggested reading.
                    $15.00.) General Oliver Otis Howard was "an Indian fighter and Indian
                    diplomatist, and his observations about the tribes with which he came in contact, make his
                    recollections an essential entry in any well-rounded bibliography of the American West" (p.
                    v). In 1872 Howard served on a special peace  making mission to
                    Arizona and the Chiricahua Apaches. Results of his mission included the founding of San Carlos
                    Indian Reservation and an "all but unescorted" trip to Cochise's
                    stronghold to conclude peace negotiations. The other major episode in Howard's frontier
                    Indian career was the Nez Perce War of 1877. Both events are chronicled in this autobiography which
                    reveals Howard as genuinely interested in and sympathetic with the Indian's plight. The
                    general regarded himself as especially gifted to deal with the redmen, ascribed almost all conflicts
                    to white provocation, and considered the Indians victims of white mendacity and greed. Nevertheless,
                    he saw no reason to preserve the redman's religion or culture and, in working to raise the
                    Indian from "savagery" to "civilization," advocated virtual
                    cultural extermination. My Life and Experiences Among the Hostile Indians is
                    "a classic revelation of how Indians and whites so frequently and so completely failed to
                    understand each other" (p. xv). Lorna Lutes Sylvester, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               Pleasant Hill in the Civil War. By Thomas D. Clark. [Foreward by Holman 
                        Hamilton
                    .] ([Pleasant Hill, Ky.]: Pleasant Hill Press, 1972. Pp. xi, 76. Illustrations.
                    $4.50.) Pleasant Hill in the Civil War has all the ingredients of a
                    fascinating and successful book: a foreward by one distinguished Kentucky historian; a text by
                    another who "possesses numerous attributes of cultural statesmanship" (p. viii);
                    and a story of the Civil War which is both poignant and historically informative. The Shakers, a
                    religious order of celibates, settled at Pleasant Hill, 
                        Kentucky
                    , in 1805. From 1856 to 1871 a very articulate diarist meticulously recorded in a
                    journal the events of the Shakers' daily lives. Using this journal as the basis for his
                    story, Clark describes the society's activities during the Civil War when the road through
                    their town was a "virtual funnel" through which both Confederate and Federal
                    armies flowed. All soldiers were fed, although the Shakers' well filled storerooms were
                    depleted. As Clark concludes: "The ravages of War took its [sic] toll on
                    the prosperous agricultural economy of Pleasant Hill starting a forty year decline which led to the
                    dissolution of the Society in 1910" (p. 8). Excellent pictures add to the delight of this
                    interesting volume. Lorna Lutes Sylvester, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
            Books Received
            
               
                  The Anatomy of the Confederate Congress: A Study of the Influences of Member
                            Characteristics on Legislative Voting Behavior, 1861-1865. By Thomas B. Alexander and
                        Richard E. Beringer. (
                            Nashville
                        : Vanderbilt University Press, 1972. Pp. xi, 435. Notes, maps, tables, appendices,
                        bibliographic comment, index. $10.00.)
               
                  Another Look at the Twentieth-Century South. By George E. Mowry. The Walter
                        Lynwood Fleming Lectures in Southern History. (
                            Baton Rouge
                        : Louisiana State University Press, 1973. Pp. ix, 90. $4.95.)
               
                  The Life of Thomas Jefferson. By Henry S. Randall. Three volumes. Reprint.
                            The American Scene: Comments and Commentators. Edited by Wallace D.
                        Farnham. (
                            New York
                        : Da Capo Press, 1972. Pp. xxiv, 645; xii, 694; xii, 731. Illustrations, notes,
                        appendices, index. Each, $30.00; set, $75.00.)
               
                  The Living Arts of 
                                Nigeria
                            . Edited by William Fagg. Photographs by Peccinotti; illustrated by Michael
                        Foreman. (
                            New York
                        : The Macmillan Company, 1971. Pp. [108]. Illustrations, bibliographic note.
                        $12.95.)
               
                  Reframing the Constitution: An Imperative for Modern America. By Leland D.
                        Baldwin. (
                            Santa Barbara
                        : Amercan Bibliographic Center-Clio Press, 1972. Pp. xiv, 145. Notes, table, maps,
                        illustrations, index. Clothbound, $15.00; paperbound, $5.50.)
               
                  Report of the Joint Committee on the Investigation of the Pearl Harbor Attack,
                            Including the Minority Report.
                        
                            United States
                        , 79th Congress, 2nd Session. Reprint.  F#2 D. Roosevelt and the Era of
                            the New Deal. Edited by Frank Freidel. (
                            New York
                        : Da Capo Press, 1972. Pp. xvi, 492, 79. Notes, tables, appendices, maps.
                        $22.50.)
               
                  Russian History Atlas. By Martin Gilbert. Cartographic consultant, Arthur
                        Banks. (
                            New York
                        : The Macmillan  Company, 1972. Pp. [228]. Maps,
                        bibliography, index. $4.95.)
               
                  The Bosses. By Alfred Steinberg. (
                            New York
                        : The Macmillan Company, 1972. Pp. 379. Acknowledgments and bibliography, index.
                        $8.95.)
               
                  Three Hundred Years of American Drama and Theatre: From Ye Bear and Ye
                        Cubb to Hair. By Garff B. Wilson. (Englewood Cliffs, N.J.: Prentice-Hall,
                        Inc., 1973. Pp. viii, 536. Notes, illustrations, selected bibliography, index.
                        $11.95.)
               
                  The Mystic Warriors of the Plains. By Thomas E. Mails. (
                            Garden City
                        , N.Y.: Doubleday & Company, Inc., 1972. Pp. xvii, 618. Illustrations,
                        notes, specific sources, bibliography, index. $25.00.)
            
         
      
   
