
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 53, Issue 3, pages 245-354. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:53+issue:3+year:1957&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Log-Cabin Canvass, Hoosier Style
            Robert G. Gunderson*
            
            Times were hard in 1840. Laborers worked for fifty cents a day, farm hands for "bed and
                    board," and they were glad to get it. Canal diggers who averaged but $110 a year
                    lost their jobs entirely in August, 1839, when the State of Indiana went bankrupt and stopped
                    virtually all its public works.1 The firm of Comparet and Kiser in 
                        Fort Wayne
                     paid $1.50 per hundred pounds for dressed pork.2 Flour
                    had dropped from $11.00 to $3.25 a barrel. Wheat went for 37 1/2 cents a
                    bushel, corn for twenty-five cents. The largest packing houses in 
                        Cincinnati
                     failed. 
                        Detroit
                     papers reported every branch of trade suffering.3 Contemporary
                    auditors recorded 33,000 insolvencies.4 "Everybody," babbled
                    one melancholy observer in the fashionable echolalia of the day, "and everything is
                    going—going—going—to the devil."5
                    Ralph Waldo Emerson thought the whole generation "bankrupt of principles and
                    hope," as well as "of property." "Man … is the
                    treadle 
                  
                     * Robert G. Gunderson is chairman of the department of speech at
                            Oberlin College, 
                                Oberlin
                            , 
                                Ohio
                            . This paper, here reproduced with minor changes, was read at the annual dinner
                            meeting of the 
                                Allen County
                            -
                                Fort Wayne
                             Historical Society on February 27, 1957.
                  
                     1
                            
                                Washington
                            
                            National Intelligencer, March 3, 1840; Logan Esarey, A
                                History of Indiana from Its Exploration to 1850 (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1918), I, 423.
                  
                     2 "Reminiscences of A. C. Comparet," Old Fort News (
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Indiana), XIX (March, 1956), 8.
                  
                     3
                            
                                Washington
                            
                            National Intelligencer, February 13, 1840; 
                        Zanesville, Ohio
                     , Gazette, February 5, 1840; William G. Wolfe,
                                Stories of 
                                    Guernsey County
                                , 
                                    Ohio
                                , History of an Average 
                                    Ohio County
                                
                      (
                        Cambridge, Ohio
                     , 1943), 117.
                  
                     4 Walter W. Price, We Have Recovered Before (
                                New York
                            , 1933), 48.
                  
                     5 Allan Nevins and Milton Halsey Thomas (eds.), The Diary
                                of George Templeton Strong, Young Man in 
                                    New York
                                , 1835–1849 (4 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1952), 1, 131, entry for February 21, 1840.
               
                     of a wheel," wailed Concord's distinguished
                    man of letters, "a tassel at the apron-string of society … the servant of his
                        belly."6
            
            Pioneers in 
                        Allen County
                     in 1840 had cause to concern themselves with survival for they lived in a country not
                    far removed from wilderness, dependent upon the whimsical forces of nature. Northern Indiana was
                    very sparsely settled, and most of the population lived in central and southern Indiana.7 Though its population multiplied six times from 1830 to 1840, 
                        Allen County
                     could boast of less than six thousand inhabitants in 1840, the great majority of whom
                    devoted themselves to clearing very primitive farms. The fur trade with the Miami Indians was still
                    lively, but Indian corn provided the largest cash crop, 84,275 bushels in 1840. Ingenious Hoosiers
                    had discovered that the cheapest and most convenient way to get corn to market, if not perhaps the
                    most palatable way to consume it, was in the form of whiskey. Thus there was a distillery, and the
                    rudimentary beginnings of commerce and industry. A weekly newspaper, three flour mills, two grist
                    mills, a pottery, a tannery, and the aforementioned distillery kept some 265 workers employed.
                    Twenty-eight citizens practiced what the census taker listed as the "learned
                    professions," 166 engaged in mining, 52 in commerce, and six were employed in the
                    navigation of canals and rivers. As yet there were only primary schools, and 160 citizens over
                    twenty years of age frankly admitted that they could neither read nor write. According to the census
                    taker, at least, no one in the entire county formally classified as either idiot or insane.8
            
            There was little or no commercialized entertainment, and folks were forced to find their own
                    amusements, one of which was obviously politics. As a recent writer put it, Hoosiers were always
                    "Hell Bent For Election."8 With butter and bacon at six cents
                    a pound, disgruntled farmers found it comforting to have President Martin Van Buren to blame for
                    their miseries. "I hope we will have a change in government 
                  
                     6 Edward W. Emerson and Waldo Emerson Forbes (eds.), Journals of Ralph Waldo Emerson (10 vols., 
                                Boston
                            , 1910), IV, 242.
                  
                     7 John D. Barnhart and Donald F. Carmony, Indiana: From
                                Frontier to Industrial Commonwealth (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1954), I, 175.
                  
                     8
                            Compendium of the … Sixth Census, 82–83,
                            286–292.
                  
                     9 Harvey L. Carter, "Indiana—Hell Bent for
                            Election," Indiana Magazine of History,
                            XLI (1945), 375.
               
                     officers that times may get better," wrote the nephew
                    of Senator Thomas Ewing from his isolated homestead at 
                        Rome
                     City on the northern Indiana frontier.10 In the national campaign
                    Whigs lost no time in turning such economic frustration into partisan fervor. Their denunciations
                    were fluent and careless of fact: "Down with Martin Van Ruin," they shouted;
                    "away with the Spoilers!"
            The followers of Jefferson and Jackson had been in power for forty years. Eleven years had passed
                    since the western partisans of Andrew Jackson first muddied the carpets of the White House, and the
                    aggressive vigor which had characterized their arrival in 
                        Washington
                     was considerably diminished. In 1837 General Jackson had retired to the Hermitage,
                    leaving Martin Van Buren, "the Little Magician," to maintain the Democracy by
                    political sorcery. Little Van's incantations proved to be competent enough but no
                    substitute for the decisive and colorful leadership of the Old Chieftain. Harassed by hard times,
                    the suave President found it difficult to inspire renewed enthusiasm in his plebeian followers.
                    Indeed, the paradox of a people's party under the leadership of a courtly, luxury-loving
                    politician gave the Whigs a most damaging issue in the contest of 1840.
            With the help of a more literate ghost writer, Davy Crockett, "the Coonskin
                    Congressman" from 
                        Tennessee
                    , zeroed his vitriolic pen on the hapless Van Buren. Crockett's political
                    marksmanship apparently had the same deadly effect as his huntsman's skill with Old Betsy.
                    Davy's Life of Martin Van Buren advertised its sophisticated subject as
                    "a slippery fellow," "a dandy," who crept
                    stealthily into "genteel society" and who traveled the
                    countryside "in an English coach" with "English servants, dressed in
                    … livery." "He is laced up in corsets, such as women in a town wear,
                    and, if possible, tighter than the best of them," said Davy, who found it difficult to
                    discern from the President's "personal appearance, whether he was a man or woman,
                    but for his large red and gray whiskers." "He
                    struts and swaggers like a crow in a gutter," Crockett concluded in a description
                    calculated to terminate Van Buren's political life.11
            
            
               
                  10 N. H. Ewing to Thomas Ewing, March 17, 1840, Thomas Ewing Papers,
                        Manuscripts Division, Library of Congress.
               
                  11 David Crockett, The Life of Martin Van Buren (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1839), 80–81.
            
            
            With so vulnerable an opponent, Whig politicians eagerly anticipated the impending contest. Eleven
                    months before election day delegates gathered at 
                        Harrisburg
                     to name their candidates. Rejecting their traditional spokesmen, Henry Clay and Daniel
                    Webster, Whig leaders turned to William Henry Harrison who epitomized the new political importance
                    of the West, and whose opinions were sufficiently ambiguous to offend none of the many divergent
                    elements in the party. When the disappointed 
                        Kentucky
                     Senator heard the bad news from 
                        Harrisburg
                    , he was reported to have exclaimed, "My friends are not worth the powder and
                    shot it would take to kill them! … If there were two Henry Clays, one of them would make
                    the other President of the 
                        United States
                    ."12
            
            To complete the ticket, Whig managers chose John Tyler of 
                        Virginia
                    , an austere, conservative, states' rights southerner who was said to have wept
                    at the Mill Boy's defeat. In recalling the convention later, at least one devoted Whig
                    bemoaned the addition of "And Tyler too" to the ticket. "There was
                    rhyme," he sighed, "but no reason in it."13 In 1840,
                    however, expediency made rhyme and reason synonymous, for federalists of the North and strict
                    constructionists of the South could perhaps march together to the chant of the compelling
                    alliteration: "
                        Tippecanoe
                     and Tyler too."
            The problem of unity thus solved by their ticket, Whigs had only to keep the campaign from becoming
                    entangled with controversial issues. "The General's lips must be hermetically
                    sealed," advised one astute New Yorker, "and our shouts and hurras must be long
                    and loud." In accomplishing their objectives, Whigs fortuitously received inadvertent help
                    from blundering Democrats who repeated gibes about "Old Granny" Harrison. A
                    correspondent for the 
                        Baltimore
                    
                    Republican suggested that the Whig candidate might better be pensioned than sent
                    to the White House. "Give him a barrel of hard cider," said this tactless
                    Democrat, "and settle a pension of two thousand a year on him," "and my
                    word for it, he will sit the remainder of his days in his log cabin by the side of a `sea
                    coal' fire, and study moral philosophy."14
                    
                  
                     12 Henry A. Wise, Seven Decades of the Union (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1872), 171–172.
                  
                     13 Allan Nevins (ed.), The Diary of Philip Hone (2
                            vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1936), II, 553, entry for August 17, 1841.
                  
                     14 M. Bradley to Thurlow Weed, August 29, 1839, Thurlow Weed Papers,
                            Manuscripts Division, University of 
                                Rochester
                             Library; 
                                Baltimore
                            
                            Republican, December 11, 1839.
               
                     Unwitting Democratic editors republished this unseemly taunt in
                    an attempt to capitalize on Clay's repudiation at 
                        Harrisburg
                    , but shrewd Whig managers soon turned Democratic sneers to their own advantage. The
                    welkin rang with shouts for the "Log-Cabin and hard-cider Candidate," and within
                    the month cabins, coons, and cider became the symbols of resurgent Whiggery.
            Representative Charles Ogle of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     gave the campaign its keynote in a speech in Congress on "The Regal Splendor
                    of the President's Palace." In describing the most intimate details of
                    "palace life," the Keystone Congressman accused Van Buren of installing the first
                    bathtub in the White House. For three uproarious days, Ogle harangued his colleagues. Among other
                    things, he complained because the President's table was "not provided with those
                    old and unfashionable dishes, `hog and hominy,'" "schnitz" and
                    "sour-crout," to say nothing of "hard cider." He denounced the
                    purchase of mirrors for the "grand banquet hall." "What," asked
                    Ogle, "would the frugal and honest `Hoosiers' think were they to behold a
                    democratic peacock in full court costume, strutting by the hour before golden-framed mirrors, nine
                    feet high and four and a half feet wide!" His climax of course came with the revelation
                    that a bathtub had been put in Van Buren's chambers. Apparently "Sweet Sandy
                    Whiskers" (as he disrespectfully referred to the President) was not content to bathe, as
                    John Quincy Adams had, in the turbid waters of the Potomac. Only one with the desires of an Oriental
                    autocrat would demand so extravagant a luxury as a bath! A President with tastes so effete might
                    indeed supply his toilet with "Double Extract of Queen Victora [sic]."15
            
            In contrast to this Asiatic splendor of Van Buren, Whigs heralded the rugged virtues of "the
                    Ploughman Candidate for President." The contest was interpreted as one between the simple
                    and the aristocratic ways of life: the log cabin versus the palace; hard cider versus champagne; Old 
                        Tippecanoe
                     versus Sweet Sandy Whiskers. Partisans chanted this simplified version of political
                    strife: 
                        Let Van from his coolers of silver drink wine, And lounge on his cushioned settee
                        
                     
                        15
                                
                                    New York
                                
                                Log Cabin, July 11 and 18, August 1, 1840.
                  
                        
                        Our man on a Buckeye bench can recline Content with hard cider is he!16
                  
                    
            
            Hoosiers opened their campaign in January, ten months before election day. Democrats met in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on the anniversary of Jackson's victory at 
                        New Orleans
                     to nominate Tilghman A. Howard for governor. Whigs gathered the following week to name
                    Judge Samuel Bigger as his opponent.17 But the presidency was the
                    "greased pig in the field game of American politics,"18 and
                    most of the talk was about Indiana's onetime territorial governor, William Henry Harrison,
                    the "Cincinnatus from North Bend."
            A high political fever raged in Indiana and throughout the entire West. Politicians bustled about, as
                    one observer testified, "warming each other up for the fight."19 From January until May, Hoosier Whigs checked poll lists, founded campaign papers, and
                    established county campaign committees. Between April 6 and May 9, Judge Bigger traveled seven
                    hundred miles astride a horse, to say nothing of delivering thirty-three speeches, some of which
                    lasted for three or four hours.20 Whig elector Richard W. Thompson likewise
                    stumped the state promoting local organization and making the hills and valleys "resound
                    with the praises" of Old Tip.21 Ciderites shouted: 
                        Without a Why or wherefore We'll go for Harrison therefore.
                    
            
            The Whig assembly that camped at 
                        Tippecanoe
                     Battleground on May 29 and 30 was compared to the vast encampment of Darius before his
                    invasion of 
                        Greece
                    .22 Delegations, some as many as a thousand strong, marched over
                    muddy roads in military formation to do honor to Old Tip at the battleground he made famous.23 A huge 
                        Evansville
                     contingent 
                  
                     16 Emilius O. Randall and Daniel J. Ryan, History of 
                                    Ohio
                                , The Rise and Progress of an American State (5 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1912), IV, 29.
                  
                     17 Adam Leonard, "Personal Polities in Indiana
                            1816–1840," Indiana Magazine of History,
                            XIX (1923), 278–279.
                  
                     18 Ambrose Bierce, The Devil's Dictionary (
                                New York
                            , 1911), 266.
                  
                     19 John Van Fossan to Thurlow Weed, July 20, 1840, Thurlow Weed
                            Papers.
                  
                     20 Esarey, History of Indiana,
                            I, 365.
                  
                     21
                            Ibid.; Charles Roll, Colonel Dick Thompson, the Persistent
                                Whig (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1948), 39–40.
                  
                     22
                            Niles' National Register, June 27, 1840, p. 264.
                  
                     23 Esarey, History of Indiana,
                            I, 364; 
                                Logansport
                            
                            Telegraph, June 13, 1840.
               
                     came up the 
                        Wabash
                     on the steamer "Lily." Some, like the young George W. Julian, rode as
                    far as 150 miles on horseback; many sloshed barefoot up the 
                        Michigan
                     Road; still others came aboard mobile canoes or log cabins, most of which were
                    thoughtfully equipped with that inseparable appendage, hard cider. Occupants in one cabin, for
                    example, ate "hog and homony [sic]" and washed it down with hard
                    cider from gourds.24
            
            Exaggerated partisan accounts insisted that never had such a multitude "been beheld in the
                    interior of the 
                        United States
                    ."25 Tireless enumerators counted Whig noses and
                    "variously guessed" the number at forty to fifty thousand, but a correspondent for
                    one paper thought it more accurate to say "fifteen acres of men"
                    and three to six thousand "females." Surprisingly enough, the arrangements
                    committee was ready for this unprecedented horde. A tent three-fourths of a mile long housed the
                    crowd, and a grazing farm of three hundred acres accommodated their horses. On one corner of the
                    grounds a whole ox was barbecued and served with corn bread on shingles.26
                    Thirty hastily erected "groceries" dispensed not only cider but "every
                    description of intoxicating liquors" which had been shipped up the 
                        Wabash
                    .27 Despite the manifold temptations, Whig editors reported
                    "no intoxicated person," "no scene of violence" to "mar
                    the general harmony."28 Democratic editors, however, told an entirely
                    different story. "The ground that once was bathed with blood of brave men,"
                    moralized the 
                        Washington
                    
                    Globe, "was made the scene of disgraceful revelry and
                        dissipation."29 No doubt the groceries contributed to the thunder
                    which was heard by one editor a week after the celebration, still reverberating "along the
                    shore of the bountiful 
                        Wabash
                    ."30
            
            Solon Robinson, a member of the 
                        Lake County
                     delegation, mounted his printing press aboard a lumber wagon and 
                  
                     24 George W. Julian, Political Recollections,
                                1840–1872 (
                                Chicago
                            , 1884), 16; 
                        Cleveland, Ohio
                     , Axe, June 18,
                            1840.
                  
                     25
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Free Press, June 4, 1840, quoted in Niles' National
                                Register, June 27, 1840, p. 264.
                  
                     26
                            
                                Washington
                            
                            National Intelligencer, June 11, 1840; Niles'
                                National Register, June 27, 1840, p. 264; 
                                Logansport
                            
                            Telegraph, June 6, 1840; 
                                Cleveland
                            
                            Axe, June 18, 1840.
                  
                     27
                            
                                Washington
                            
                            Globe, June 16, 1840.
                  
                     28
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                            Telegraph, June 6, 1840.
                  
                     29
                            
                                Washington
                            
                            Globe, June 16, 1840.
                  
                     30
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Free Press, June 4, 1840, quoted in Niles' National
                                Register, June 27, 1840, p. 264.
               
                     turned out Whig propaganda and 
                        Tippecanoe
                     songs for the overstimulated spectators.31 On hand were at least
                    six bands to set the whole Battleground to music. A monster parade featured a full-rigged ship from 
                        Michigan
                     City, sixty smartly dressed "Rifle Rangers" from 
                        Evansville
                    , numerous mobile log cabins and canoes, an "army of banners," and an
                    effigy of Van Buren, golden spoon in hand, seated on English cushions in a handsome British
                    carriage. Six vice-presidents assisted Jonathan McCarty, the presiding officer. Judge Bigger and
                    James Brooks, editor of the 
                        New York
                    
                    Express, made the principal speeches from the roof of a log cabin. Only a fraction
                    of the great crowd could hear, but all could respond patriotically to the moving final scene. A
                    "tottering" group of veterans presented Brooks with the flag carried by Captain
                    Spier Spencer's Company in 1811, and the 
                        New York
                     editor promised to deliver it to General Harrison in 
                        Washington
                     on inauguration day, 1841.32 "It was," said one
                    authority, "a perfect delirium of sentiment."33
            
            The excitement aroused by the great Battleground convention spread to every hamlet in the state.
                    "The whole country," said former President John Quincy Adams, "is in a
                    state of agitation … such as was never before witnessed."34
                    In his reminiscences A. C. Comparet recalls the exciting 
                        Fort Wayne
                     celebration, complete with mobile log cabin, coonskins, and cider barrel drawn by
                    sixteen yoke of oxen. A procession went up 
                        Columbia
                     and Main streets to the Old Fort, scene of the all-day oratorical festivities.35 Orators thought it nothing in those days to talk for two hours, and a few
                    with unusual laryngeal stamina regularly talked for three or four.36 Whig
                    audiences rewarded their efforts with a corresponding measure of patience and endurance.
            
               
                  31 Powell A. Moore, "The Newspaper Press of the Calumet Region,
                        1836–1933," Indiana Magazine of History,
                        LII (1956), 111.
               
                  32
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Spirit of `76, June 6, 1840; 
                            Logansport
                        
                        Telegraph, June 6 and 13, 1840.
               
                  33 Esarey, History of Indiana, I, 365. For an
                        unsympathetic account of the Battleground activities, see 
                            Logansport
                        
                        Herald, May 27, June 10, 1840.
               
                  34 Charles Francis Adams (ed.), Memoirs of John Quincy
                        Adams (12 vols., 
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1874–1877), X (1876), 351, entry for August 29, 1840.
               
                  35 Comparet, "Reminiscences," 10.
               
                  36 William C. Rives of 
                            Virginia
                        , for example, regularly talked four hours. See 
                            Washington
                        
                        National Intelligencer, October 10, 1840; Niles'
                            National Register, October 10, 1840.
            
            
            Whig editors likewise devoted themselves unsparingly to politics. Horace Greeley, editor of the
                    principal campaign paper, the Log Cabin, risked his financial future during the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     mania, but his editorials were a powerful influence on western voters. "Robert Dale Owen is a Van Buren candidate for Elector of President in
                    Indiana," the eccentric New Yorker observed caustically. "Wherever you find a
                    bitter, blasphemous Atheist and enemy of Marriage, Morality and Social Order, there you may be
                    certain of one vote for Van Buren."37 The editor of the 
                        Fort Wayne
                    
                    Times studied the President's career and discovered that Little Mat had
                    attended a fashionable ball in 
                        Albany
                     "on the `very night' that Gen. Harrison was surprised" at 
                        Tippecanoe
                    .38 The local editor's historical research prompted this
                    new verse to a favorite Whig refrain: 
                        When Martin was housed like a chattel, Opposed to the war as you know, Our hero was foremost
                            in battle, And conquered at 
                                Tippecanoe
                            .39
                  
                    
            
            Confronted with arguments for log cabins and hard cider, bewildered Democratic politicians responded
                    with the traditional palaver of their trade. They described Old Tip as senile, charged him with
                    duplicity, belittled his military record. In one of the truly ingenious developments of the canvass,
                    Loco-Foco leaders in 
                        New York
                     popularized "O.K." as a political war cry. In mid-March the
                    mysterious symbol appeared for the first time in print as the name of a Democratic ward group, the
                    "O.K. Club." Shortly thereafter the mystery of the symbol was clarified.
                    "O.K." stood for Martin Van Buren, "Old Kinderhook," whose noisy
                    followers shouted it as a term of identification while disrupting a Whig meeting. But soon Whig
                    editors were reversing the symbols to indicate what was to happen to Little Van in November:
                    "Kicked Out."40
            
            Democrats curried sympathy with religious groups by claiming that intemperance had become a badge of
                    the Whig 
                  
                     37
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Log Cabin, August 29, 1840.
                  
                     38
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            Times, n.d., quoted in 
                                Logansport
                            
                            Herald, November 25, 1840.
                  
                     39
                            
                        Frankfort, Kentucky
                     , Campaign, June, 1840.
                  
                     40 Allen Walker Read, "The Evidence on
                            `O.K.,'" Saturday Review of Literature, XXIV (July 19,
                            1941), 3–4, 10.
               
                     party. To prove their point, they quoted the Reverend Leonard
                    Bacon of the 
                        New York
                     State Temperance Society who asserted with assurance that "more than ten
                    thousand men will be made drunkards in one year, by this hard cider enthusiasm."41 "The `log cabin!'" exclaimed the leading
                    Democratic editor, "[is] a Federal trap, baited with hard cider to catch honest
                    people's votes in!"42
            
            The president of the 
                        Michigan
                     Temperance Society countered for the Whigs by rejoicing that politics had at last been
                    removed "from the tavern and grog-shop."43
                    In desperation Democrats ridiculed the superficial nature of the hardcider appeal. An anonymous
                    Loco-Foco rhymester scoffed at wayward 
                        Tippecanoe
                     fathers: 
                        Hush-a-by-baby, Daddy's a Whig, Before he comes home Hard cider he'll swig;
                            Then he'll be tipsy And over he'll fall; Down will come Daddy, Tip, Tyler,
                            and all.44
                  
                     But in spite of this inspired effort there was little in Democratic strategy to match the
                    sorcery of the Whigs. Conventions, parades, log-cabin raisings, barbecues, coonskin displays, and
                    fireworks were the ingredients of political success in 1840; and raucous shouts for the
                    Ploughman-President-To-Be overwhelmed all attempt at argument.
            Discouraged Hoosier Democrats could not conceal their dismay. George Pattison of 
                        Indianapolis
                     urged his fellow leaders to "stir up the
                    democracy." "See [George A.] Chapman," he advised; "… tell him not to
                    … create unnecessary alarms by putting a bad face upon our prospects. Tell
                        him he must CROW."45 Unfortunately, this frenzied advice fell
                    into Whig hands, and the pessimistic Chapman found himself overnight "the great Rooster of
                    the Loco-Foco party."46 At the mammoth Bunker Hill
                    celebration in 
                  
                     41
                            
                        Albany, New
                                    York
                     , Rough-Hewer, June 4, 1840.
                  
                     42
                            
                                Washington
                            
                            Globe, July 10, 1840.
                  
                     43
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Log Cabin, October 3, 1840.
                  
                     44 Malcolm P. Eiselen, "Campaign Ballads," Review of Reviews, XCIV (October, 1936), 60.
                  
                     45
                            
                                Washington
                            
                            National Intelligencer, August 1, 1840.
                  
                     46
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Log Cabin, September 5, 1840.
               
                    
                    
                        Boston
                     the obscure Indiana editor was caricatured as "a cock
                    prostrate on its back" above the taunt, "Crow, Chapman, Crow."47 In 
                        Cincinnati
                     Whigs erected a huge rooster over the intersection at Main and 
                        Columbia
                     streets. The cabalistic letters "K. K." covered his distended chest,
                    and knowing Whigs explained that they stood for "Kant Krow."48
            
            When voters went to the polls for the state elections in August, Whigs swept Judge Bigger to victory
                    with a nine-thousand vote margin.49 They likewise won midsummer contests in 
                        Kentucky
                    , 
                        North Carolina
                    , 
                        Vermont
                    , and 
                        Alabama
                    .50 When they squeaked through with a meager two-hundred vote margin
                    in the Pine Tree State, Ciderite rallies thundered that 
                        Maine
                     "went Hell bent for Governor Kent."51
            
            Balloting in 1840 extended over a period of three weeks, with 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Pennsylvania
                     opening the canvass on October 30. In Indiana both sides prepared for a turbulent
                    election day. Horace Greeley warned of "violence and rebellion."52 President Van Buren urged his followers to "prevent fraud by all legal
                        means."53 But no state had a secret ballot and four still had a
                    voice vote; so voting conditions encouraged trouble.
            In some areas, as always, Hoosiers turned out "about 101%" on election day.54 Indiana cast 117,000 votes out of a possible 137,000, or over 86 per cent of
                    the eligible electorate.55 Old Tip won the state he once governed by a margin of
                    almost 14,000. 
                        Allen County
                     gave him 640 as compared with 399 for Van Buren.56 In all, Old Tip
                    carried nineteen of the twenty-six states with a popular majority of 150,000.57
                    The hard-cider excitement had given the country an increase of almost 55 per cent in the popular
                    vote over 
                  
                     47
                            
                                Cleveland
                            
                            Axe, September 24, 1840.
                  
                     48
                            
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Chronicle, October 3, 1840.
                  
                     49
                            
                                Washington
                            
                            National Intelligencer, August 18, 1840.
                  
                     50
                            Ibid., August 25, 1840.
                  
                     51 Julian, Recollections, 21.
                  
                     52
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Log Cabin, October 31, 1840.
                  
                     53 Martin Van Buren to Andrew Jackson, September 5, 1840, Martin Van
                            Buren Papers, Manuscripts Division, Library of Congress.
                  
                     54 Carter, "Hell Bent for Election," 384.
                  
                     55 Logan Esarey, "Pioneer Politics in Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XIII (1917), 100.
                  
                     56 W. Dean Burnham, Presidential Ballots,
                                1856–1892 (
                                Baltimore
                            , 1955), 390.
                  
                     57
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Log Cabin, December 19, 1840.
               
                     the 1836 national canvass, an increase never
                    equalled—even following the enfranchisement of women.
            Jubilant Whig editors heralded an end to the "long and dreary night of misrule and party
                        tyranny."58 Democrats viewed the result as the "triumph of
                    the power of money over the intelligence of the country."59 In 
                        Indianapolis
                     the editor of the Indiana Democrat spelled out a final bit of
                    doggerel: 
                        We flap'd our wings and tried to crow, Alas! Alas!! It was no go—Chapman
                            and we are now K. O.60
                  
                     With some justification, one newspaper claimed that Van Buren had been "sung down,
                    lied down, drunk down."61
            
            
               
                  58
                        
                     Memphis, Tennessee
                  , Enquirer, n.d., quoted in 
                            Washington
                        
                        National Intelligencer, November 17, 1840.
               
                  59
                        
                            Washington
                        
                        Globe, November 19, 1840.
               
                  60
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Indiana Democrat, November 14, 1840.
               
                  61 Wheeling Times, n.d., quoted in John Bach McMaster,
                            A History of the People of the 
                                United States
                            
                   (8 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1920), VI, 590.
            
         
         
         
            Elements of Culture in the Old Northwest
            Logan Esarey*
            
            This study of the elements of culture may not be orthodox, nor may it apply to the whole Northwest in
                    the Glorious Fifties, but it is offered for what it is worth. It is based entirely on the southern
                    half of Indiana but it is believed to be equally applicable to southern 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Illinois
                    .
            In the southwest corner of Indiana in that particular county which contained the mythical Hooppole
                        township1 was 
                        New Harmony
                    . It is not pretended that this community was kin to the neighbors around. It shone like
                    the morning star in the Milky Way in comparison but it set us our first lessons and some profited.
                    One hundred years ago Richard 
                  
                            
                        * This paper was read at the annual meeting of the American
                                Historical Association at 
                           Urbana,
                                        Illinois
                        , December 27, 1933.
                                Soon thereafter it was deposited with the Indiana Division of the Indiana State Library, 
                                    Indianapolis
                                . Acknowledgement is herewith expressed to Mrs. Hazel Hopper of the Indiana
                                Division for making it available for publication and to Professor Ralph Esarey, son of
                                Logan Esarey and member of the Indiana University geology department, for approving
                                publication.
                            This informal paper was obviously prepared by Logan Esarey for reading to fellow
                                historians, and was doubtless to be read within a maximum of twenty to twenty-five
                                minutes. In preparing it for publication the editors have completed certain names and
                                made minor grammatical changes. These changes, however, have carefully followed the
                                original text, which has otherwise been faithfully reproduced. All footnotes have been
                                added by the editors. Professor Esarey himself recognized that this paper was merely a
                                beginning for his chosen topic. In the margin toward the end of his paper he wrote,
                                "Imagine 100 pages inserted here," and in a letter to Miss Esther
                                McNitt of the Indiana State Library he indicated that about five hundred pages should be
                                added before it would be ready for publication.
                            Former students of Professor Esarey will recognize in this paper various concepts which
                                he expounded in his classes and even more delightfully set forth in his private
                                conversation. Born in 
                                    Perry County
                                 in 1873, Esarey grew up among the hills of southern Indiana when many of
                                the pioneers were still alive. He was a member of the Indiana University history
                                department from 1913 until his death in 1942. From 1913 until 1927 he was editor of the
                                    Indiana Magazine of History. Though plagued by ill health for many
                                years, he was active in establishing Indiana history, history of the American Middle
                                West, and history of the American Far West as basic courses at the University.
                            For ideas similar to those expressed in this paper see Logan Esarey, "The
                                Pioneer Aristocracy," Indiana Magazine of History, XIII
                                (1917), 270–287; see also the collection of certain of his papers in The Indiana Home, edited by R. Carlyle Buley, first published by R. E.
                                Banta (
                                    Crawfordsville
                                , 1943), and later by the Indiana University Press (
                                    Bloomington
                                , 1953).
                        
                  
                     1 Various frontier localities made hooppoles for packaging pioneer
                            produce in barrels, kegs, and the like, in sufficient number to be given such appellations
                            in local traditions.
               
                     Owen was a musician, an elegant dancer, a scientist in a
                    college faculty, a soldier in two wars, dainty enough for any parlor, a sparkle of light in a somber
                    Presbyterian world; Robert Dale Owen battled faithfully for thirty years for toleration in all walks
                    of social life; David Dale Owen, aside from his social influence, was the greatest of our
                    geologists. The schools of 
                        New Harmony
                     attracted children from leading families throughout the state and a grateful people
                    after a century of growth are beginning to appreciate the culture of the Owenites.
            Thirty miles to the north David Robb was laying the foundation for another center of culture.2 An Irishman by birth, a Hoosier after 1800, he left his descendants an
                    inheritance both of wealth and enthusiasm which carried his children and grandchildren to the first
                    rank of state citizenship. Elisha Embree, a Kentuckian and Robb's son-in-law, was refused a
                    Whig nomination for the governorship, was ten years on the circuit bench, in Congress with his old
                    neighbor Lincoln, and one of the outstanding leaders of a community which even today is represented
                    by the federal judge of the Indiana circuit and by a professor of law at the state university.3
            
            Twenty miles southeast of 
                        New Harmony
                     was an English settlement somewhat older than that of the Owens.4
                    Joseph Wheeler, John Ingle, Robert Parrett, and Levi Iglehart were the leaders. A similar settlement
                    by George Flower was made at 
                        Albion
                    , 
                        Illinois
                    . It would take more than the space of this paper to identify Congressmen James
                    Lockhart, William Fletcher Parrett, and John Hopkins Foster, the Fellows sisters, the Iglehart
                    lawyers and preachers, the Wheeler educators. Perhaps the most widely known of this group was John
                    Watson Foster, the diplomat.
            Passing by the community on the east which gave us Lincoln and also the next counties for other
                    reasons the student of the fifties would come upon modest little Corydon. After the capital of the
                    state was removed in 1825 Corydon apparently passed out of the picture. However, one cannot lightly
                    pass over a community that was producing in this period such men as Henry S. Lane and Walter Q.
                    Gresham. 
                  
                     2
                            
                                Gibson County
                            , of which 
                                Princeton
                             is the county seat.
                  
                     3 Judge Robert C. Baltzell and Professor James J. Robinson.
                  
                     4
                            
                                Evansville
                            .
               
                     The former was the most distinguished friend of Lincoln during
                    the latter's exile in 
                        Washington
                     and, although the most popular politician in Indiana, he never manifested any interest
                    in politics after Lincoln's death. Gresham's career led through a long federal
                    judgeship to a place in the President's cabinet.
            Associated with them in the nearby town of 
                        New Albany
                     was another cluster of interesting men: Randall Crawford, a leader of the state bar;
                    the DePauws, typical of the leading business men of the new society; John Norman, one of the four or
                    five leading editors of the state and the only one of his class who stood by the Democratic party in
                    its day of trouble. 
                        New Albany
                     was the leading city of the state during the decade. At its wharf might have been seen
                    the finest steamboats that ever navigated the 
                  Ohio, Mississippi
               , or any other
                    river. The pilots, more admired and envied than governors, always brought 
                        Norman
                     and others the latest copies of the 
                        New Orleans
                    
                    Picayune. The young scions of Indiana met the Bluegrass aristocracy of 
                        Kentucky
                     in the cabins of these steamers and received their finishing training in elegant
                    manners, dancing, singing, poker, and other basic elements of culture. The steamer
                    "Eclipse" which ran from 
                        New Albany
                     to 
                        New Orleans
                     carried a full orchestra; its cabin deck was covered by a one-piece carpet made to
                    order in Brussels; its table dishes, crested in gold, were made to order by the Havilands of
                    Limoges; the diners always wore full evening dress; and after the eight-course dinner dancing
                    followed from nine to twelve and poker after that as long as the Kentuckians could afford it. From
                    this community came the LaFollettes of 
                        Wisconsin
                    .
            
               
                        Madison
                    , some twenty miles up the 
                        Ohio
                    , was the business rival of 
                        New Albany
                    . It offered an attractive list of respectables as its contribution. James F. D. Lanier,
                    the banker, William Hendricks, governor and senator, and John Paul, the business man, were perhaps
                    best known of its founders, but in the period under review were Joseph G. Marshall, Jesse Bright,
                    the Egglestons, some of them judges and some novelists, Judge Jeremiah Sullivan, and Michael C.
                    Garber, the editor. Of all these the best known is the novelist, Edward Eggleston. He was born and
                    reared in the French settlement of 
                        Vevay
                     nearby, and how much he was  indebted to the French
                    emigrants, the Dufours, Dumonts, LeClercs, etc., is problematical.
            Farther up the river in the southeast corner of the state still a different brand of civilization was
                    appearing. This was built on no less firm a foundation than the old Continental Line.5 Far into the nineteenth century one might have found the Cincinnatians wearing powdered
                    wigs, ruffled shirts, knee breeches, and silver buckles. One of 
                        Cincinnati
                    's promising characters so far forgot himself in his enthusiasm for railroads
                    that he declared in a public address around the beginning of this period that persons were then
                    living who would see trains whirling across the state at the rate of thirty miles per hour. He was
                    promptly disowned and sent to the rear. A distinguished representative of this group was James Henry
                    Lane, Indiana's best known soldier of the Mexican War, a representative in Congress and
                    finally senator from 
                        Kansas
                    .
            These examples from the riverboard might lead one to conclude that the comparatively immense activity
                    on the 
                        Ohio
                     was directly responsible for the development, but the inland communities were keeping
                    full step.
            North of 
                        Madison
                    , centering around Vernon, are a dozen homes of a dozen families illustrating the
                    general progress. Chief of these are the English, New, and Vawter families. The English family
                    culminated in a candidacy for the vice presidency.6 John C. New as a publisher
                    and political organizer attained nationwide fame, and Harry S. New has served in the Cabinet and in
                    the 
                        United States
                     Senate and is now the federal agent of the 
                        Chicago
                     fair.
            In an adjoining county on the west was yet another group, characterized especially by their interest
                    in education and religion. Among the founders of the 
                        Salem
                     society were Christopher Harrison, a college man from 
                        Baltimore
                    , Judge Benjamin Parke, John Farnham, a graduate of 
                        Harvard
                    , John I. Morrison, and Jonathan Lindley, a speculator in county seats. In the twenties
                    and thirties 
                        Salem
                     was a political capital of the state. An educator from this training 
                  
                     5 Doubtless a reference to the fact that many of the early settlers of 
                                Cincinnati
                             had had experiences in the Continental Army, at times referred to as the
                            Continental Line.
                  
                     6 William H. English was nominated on the Democratic ticket as the
                            running mate of General Winfield S. Hancock in 1880 when James A. Garfield was elected
                            President.
               
                     ground is president of 
                        Kansas
                     University,7 another was recently a president of the National
                    Educational Association, before he retired to 
                        Columbia
                     University,8 another was president of the National University of 
                        China
                    .9 John Hay, Lincoln's secretary, was a native.
            To the north of 
                        Washington County
                     only twenty to forty miles and we are in the heart of the Jacksonian country. It came
                    to flower in the fifties in such men as John W. Davis, once Speaker of the House of Representatives,
                    George Whit-field Carr, president of the Constitutional Convention of 1850, and above all George
                    Grundy Dunn, Whig congressman. Colonel Richard W. Thompson received most of his training in this
                    school. Politics was a profession here. Colonel Thompson was an artist on the stump in the thirties
                    and I have listened to him in the nineties. Dunn, a cousin of Felix Grundy of 
                        Tennessee
                    , was, I think, the finest of Indiana's political orators. He had a thorough
                    classical education and was equally familiar with English literature. In power he was equal to
                    Patrick Henry and in purity and elegance lost little in comparison with Burke. These men were no
                    ordinary stump speakers. Oratory with them was a fine art and weeks of labor and study went into
                    their orations. Few of them were office seekers but they took to politics like a hound pup to a fox
                    trail.
            In 
                        Terre Haute
                     there was society. Riley McKeen, Chauncey Rose, Elisha M. Huntington, Demas Deming, and
                    Colonel Richard W. Thompson were what we would now call big business men. Horace Greeley, John
                    Gough, and Henry Ward Beecher were not too good for their lecture course. This was also the home in
                    late life of Daniel W. Voorhees, the Bryan of that day. Though not so graceful, classic, and
                    literary as Dunn he was irresistible before the multitude and his eloquence is a tradition on the 
                        Wabash
                    .
            Over at Asbury College, now DePauw, militant Methodism had entrenched itself. Like the Knights
                    Templar of old the Methodists made truceless war on iniquity. Like others of this day they expressed
                    themselves in the spoken word. Bishop Matthew Simpson no doubt was their greatest orator. 
                  
                     7 Ernest Hiram Lindley. The context seems to indicate that Esarey
                            meant that 
                                Salem
                             was a "political capital" because it provided many political
                            leaders.
                  
                     8 Jesse H. Newlon.
                  
                     9 William A. P. Martin.
               
                     Whether before the pioneers of the distant Willamette in 
                        Oregon
                    ; in the swamps of northern Indiana; before his own student body; in Cooper Institute, 
                        New York
                    ; Tremont Temple in 
                        Boston
                    ; or a convocation of the Episcopal bishops in 
                        London
                    —the result was the same. When the body of the gentle Lincoln was laid to
                    rest in our neighboring city it was Simpson who pronounced the funeral oration, a touching
                    benediction to a sorrowing nation.
            North of the National Road with centers in the adjoining counties of 
                        Fountain
                    , 
                        Parke
                    , and 
                        Montgomery
                     was the most outstanding group of men in the state. Four governors, David Wallace, a
                    graduate of West Point, James Whitcomb, Joseph A. Wright, and Henry S. Lane, indicate the spirit of
                    their culture. All were college men and each actively engaged in rebuilding the state school system.
                    Actively associated with them were James R. M. Bryant and Caleb Mills, college teachers. More widely
                    known was Dr. John Evans of 
                        Fountain County
                    , author in large part of the state benevolent institutions, known in 
                        Illinois
                     as founder of 
                        Evanston
                     and Northwestern University, and in 
                        Colorado
                     as a governor and founder of a state university. Amory Kinney stumped the state for the
                    proposed new school system and then went west to help organize another new state. Wright, who was
                    governor during most of the Glorious Fifties organized the State Board of Agriculture and devoted
                    most of his energies to the betterment of agriculture. His orations before the huge
                    farmers' meetings are only excelled in humor by those of Horace Greeley and Henry Ward
                    Beecher before the same audiences.10 Wright pleaded, prayed, and threatened to
                    interest the state university but his alma mater would have nothing to do with such vulgar work as
                    teaching agriculture, and the governor turned sadly to the establishment of Purdue.
            The state capital was furnishing some assistance although principally then as since it was considered
                    a meeting 
                  
                     10 In between the lines at this point Esarey had added:
                            "Wheat, oats, rye (Hydraulic ram)." Governor Wright, though not a dirt
                            farmer, spoke frequently before farmers, showing much interest in better varieties of seeds
                            and better breeds of stock. The story is that on one occasion he was asked what he thought
                            of the new hydraulic rams. Not being acquainted with this mechanical device, the governor
                            responded that he thought farmers should experiment with these rams in their efforts to
                            improve their stock of sheep! Doubtless Esarey improved on this story in his speech.
               
                     place for the people of the state. Its two leading newspapers
                    were even then recognized as the organs of the two parties. The Journal under John
                    D. Defrees was really growing metropolitan. It had a telegraphic column, market reports, and a
                    traveling correspondent, Berry R. Sulgrove. The Sentinel reached its peak of power
                    and glory under its ablest editor, Jacob Page Chapman. It spoke authoritatively for the triumphant
                    Democracy until the Free Soil wrangle sent both its publisher, George Chapman, and its militant
                    editor into the ranks of the new Republican party. Even the churches of the capital were hotbeds of
                    politics. Beecher became a knight-errant of Free Soilism and the governor withdrew his card from the
                    Methodist church because the preacher was too enthusiastic in his denunciation of the repeal of the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise.11
            
            This brief analysis of social conditions in southern Indiana must suffice for this paper. It is
                    believed it is representative of 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, 
                        Illinois
                    , and even southern 
                        Michigan
                    . It will be noticed that it was a political-minded people. Everything was discussed in
                    the political forum because society had no other way than by political action to settle any
                    question. A new school system was being established by the state; a system of railroads was being
                    built, each road requiring a charter by the state; a State Board of Agriculture created by the state
                    was attempting to place agriculture on a scientific basis; a state system of benevolence and charity
                    was being established under state control and support. Thus it was not accidental that every citizen
                    was a politician. During the fifties a prohibition law was placed on the statute books, though there
                    was serious objection to the state's entering the field of morals.
            Individually and personally society was just passing from the pioneer stage. It was an agricultural
                    age and life was hard. Men worked from sun to sun and women worked harder and longer.
            Sixty per cent of the manufacturing was still done in the home and the remainder in the little
                    crossroads shops. Log houses were slowly giving way to the old red bricks with some pines or cedars
                    in front. The more prosperous drove to town or church in carriages behind matched spans of driving
                        
                  
                     11 Governor Joseph A. Wright. See Logan Esarey, A History
                                of Indiana (4 vols., 
                        Dayton,
                                    Ohio
                     , 1924), II, 612.
               
                     horses, but the great majority still did their local traveling
                    horseback or on foot. Travel by rail was just beginning and men and women spent their leisure time
                    describing sights seen in 
                        Cincinnati
                     or 
                        Louisville
                     or occasionally in 
                        New York
                     or 
                        New Orleans
                    . Perhaps one kitchen in three had a cook stove and one house in twenty had some of the
                    beautiful furniture made by itinerant cabinet makers. Singing schools, lyceums, and the various
                    workings furnished local entertainment while camp meetings, barbecues, fairs, and circuses drew
                    crowds from a greater distance. Dress varied from the coonskin cap to the two-story beaver, from
                    homespun to glistening broadcloth, while women in silks and satins mingled on easy terms with those
                    in linsey-woolsey. Henry Clay found himself as well entertained in 
                        Indianapolis
                     as in 
                        Lexington
                    , while James D. Williams found it very popular in 1876 to make his campaign for the
                    governorship in home-made blue jeans.
         
         
         
            Cultural History of 
                        Indianapolis
                    : Music, 1875–1890
            Eva Draegert*
            
            The fashion in eighteenth century Europe of family orchestras performing their own compositions was
                    vanishing from the scene by the late nineteenth century. America, though still somewhat dependent on
                    Europe musically, did not adopt the fashion of family group performances. The trend for the average
                    American was to become a spectator rather than a performer; this led to a small but select group of
                    performers and to some decline in appreciation of music on the part of audiences.
            
               
                        Indianapolis
                     was experiencing this development from 1875 to 1890. Soloists studied both at home and
                    abroad to increase their skill, and amateur groups frequently performed vocal and instrumental music
                    under the baton of a paid expert conductor. The 
                        Indianapolis
                     Opera Company was formed during this period, and a few years later a symphony orchestra
                    was organized. Group participation, especially in vocal music, was greatly stimulated by the
                    Germans.
            The musical accomplishments of the Germans had long been recognized. As early as 1850 the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal, for instance, stated that "the Germans far excel the Americans
                    in musical attainments for the reason that they pursue a knowledge of the `divine art' with
                    industry, while Americans are very apt to let their `ardor cool' and withdraw from a
                    pursuit that does not put them in possession of their object immediately."1
            
            The 
                        Indianapolis
                     Maennerchor, since its establishment in 1854, had been active in regular concerts, and
                    the Turnverein had given the public music on a grand scale in the Saengerfest of 1867. About twenty
                    years later, participation in the May festivals was quite general. Important services continued to
                    be rendered by the Germans individually and as groups, and the Maennerchor assisted as an
                    organization. Besides the Maennerchor there existed in 1870 the following 
                  
                     * Eva Draegert is instructor in social studies at Woodruff High
                            School, Peoria, 
                                Illinois
                            .
                  
                     1 Quoted in Theodore Stempfel, Festschrift zur Feier der
                                Vollendung des deutschen Hauses in 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                      (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1898), 17.
               
                     musical organizations: Harmonie, established in 1869, composed
                    of men only, and representing a consolidation of several societies, the Liederkranz, Harmonia, and
                    Frohsinn; the Druid Maennerchor, organized in 1868, likewise for men only, and restricted to members
                    of the Druid Society; the Choral Union, with 125 members directed by James S. Black, and including
                    an orchestra; and the Philharmonic Orchestra, conducted by Dr. Robert A. Barnes, made up of the more
                    proficient amateurs of the city. Three other musical organizations were established before 1870 but
                    existed for only a brief time: Musicale, devoted to classical music (1863-1865); Professor Benjamin
                    Owen's Musical Class (1864-1867); and the Mendelssohn Society (1867-1870).2
            
            
               
                        Indianapolis
                    , no longer a rugged frontier village, had by 1875 become an urban community with a
                    developing musical culture. Where once Mme Anna Bishop had been listened to with bewildered
                    attention, and opera had been most unpopular, by the late seventies opera was becoming fashionable
                    and the oratorio well patronized. The quality of music heard in parlors, welcomed in concerts, and
                    demanded in musical societies was ample evidence of the increasing level of culture to be found in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . As the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News declared, "Now we stand back for no city of our size west of the
                        Atlantic."3
            
            Along with this order of musical culture another was developing. Citizens complained of the increase
                    of saloons and dance houses in the city, especially along 
                        West Washington
                     Street, where it was said that aften ten o'clock in the evening the sound of
                    bad music and hoarse voices disturbed passersby. The Atlantic Garden, Fred Seitz's old
                    place, and the City Garden on East 
                        Washington
                     Street added to those establishments springing up like mushrooms farther west. Some
                    feared that 
                        Indianapolis
                     was trying to imitate 
                        New York
                    . All this disturbed and irritated those "who prefer good order to hoodlumistic
                    singing, and lecherous glances of blear-eyed women, and the usual turmoil and tumult attendant upon
                    such places."4
            
            Teachers of music rendered a dual service to the community and were of inestimable value to 
                        Indianapolis
                     cultural 
                  
                     2 William R. Holloway, 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                , a Historical and Statistical Sketch of the Railroad City (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1870), 266.
                  
                     3
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, June 9, 1877.
                  
                     4
                            Ibid., May 25, 1875.
               
                     life. Not only did they teach their pupils but they educated
                    their audiences as well, for these teachers often performed in concerts either as soloists or with
                    groups. Often they served also as directors of orchestras or choruses. Music teachers in 
                        Indianapolis
                     appeared to be excellent, for it was said that "pupils who went elsewhere for
                    higher study had very rarely to `unlearn' what they had been taught here."5 In 1871-1872 the city had two schools of music and three music teachers, two
                    of the latter being German. The presence in the city of five dealers in musical instruments and two
                    music publishers indicated a lively interest in things musical.6
            
            In 1875 sixteen music teachers were listed in the 
                        Indianapolis
                     directory, and the next year eighteen. Listed also in 1875 were eight dealers in or
                    makers of musical instruments, two bands, and two musical institutes—an indication to
                    some extent of the musical interest and activity in the city.7 One of these
                    teachers, Professor Peter R. Pearsall, a pioneer professional music teacher of 
                        Indianapolis
                     who had taught there for thirty years,8 was given a benefit concert
                    at the Grand Opera House, where he pleased his audience by playing the accompaniment for his
                    daughter, Mrs. George H. Fleming. A former pupil, Clara Reinmann, assisted in the program. A critic
                    was much impressed by the voice of Lavonne Kackley, a talented young lady who also appeared on the
                        program.9 Two days later the News announced that Professor
                    Pearsall had netted $120 from his benefit.10 This was to be his last
                    performance, for a few weeks later his death was announced.11
            
            The custom of "benefits," so popular in the theatrical world, was also extended to
                    the field of music. Usually a letter signed by prominent citizens was sent to a musician inviting
                    him to give a benefit performance. Shortly would appear in the paper a note of thanks from the
                    musician with an 
                  
                     5 Jacob P. Dunn, Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                      (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1910), I, 536.
                  
                     6
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 City Directory, 1871–1872, p. 562.
                  
                     7
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 City Directory, 1875, p. 522; 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 City Directory, 1876, p. 568.
                  
                     8
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, February 1, 1878.
                  
                     9
                            Ibid., February 11, 1878.
                  
                     10
                            Ibid., February 13, 1878.
                  
                     11
                            Ibid., March 25, 1878.
               
                     announcement of the time and place chosen for the concert. The
                    usual arrangement for dividing box office receipts is not clear. Probably because the musician was
                    complimented by being invited to perform, the affairs were referred to as "complimentary
                    benefits." Usually these programs included other local or visiting musicians as well, and
                    many a young amateur made his debut in this manner. Often a "complimentary" helped
                    provide the means or encouragement for the next step in a musical career.12
            
            A local singer honored by such a benefit was Marcia Willard, who performed in good voice before a
                    large and brilliant audience at the Grand Opera House.13 Sallie Bingham achieved
                    considerably more than the average local musician. After exhausting her opportunities in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , she went to 
                        Boston
                     to study in the late seventies, returning home for a few concerts, then left for Europe
                    to complete her musical education.14 Returning again to 
                        Boston
                     she found her golden moment had come. A leading vocalist, unable to appear, was
                    replaced by Miss Bingham, whose performance received favorable notices from the critics.15
            
            Regular annual concerts were given by Professor James S. Black, one of the most popular teachers of
                    the decade. Since 1867 he had done much to influence the musical taste of the community, for he had
                    a part in the development of many of the best voices in the city. He was also director of the Choral
                        Union.16 Professor Ora Pearson was another popular teacher who assisted
                    young local singers in complimentary concerts. He performed with Sallie Bingham in 1877 and with
                    Lavonne Kackley in 1878; and in 1877 he also directed an operetta, Genevieve.
               17 Audiences at these concerts were modest in size and included many of the
                    social set.
            Another feature of the musical life of 
                        Indianapolis
                     at this time was the parlor concert, which may have served to introduce a new musical
                    talent or to benefit a cause, but which was always an invitational and exclusive affair. In 
                  
                     12
                            Ibid., September 13, 1877; September 21, 1877, complimentary concert for
                            Sallie Bingham.
                  
                     13
                            Ibid., June 20, 1878.
                  
                     14
                            Ibid., July 10, 1878.
                  
                     15
                            Ibid., March 29, 1879.
                  
                     16
                            Ibid., June 7, October 26, 1876.
                  
                     17
                            Ibid., May 31, 1877; June 17, 1878.
               
                     1874 the News commented that such concerts
                    were becoming popular and expressed the hope that they would provide a means for elevating the taste
                    for piano music.18 In 1879 a concert was given by Mrs. Ada Heine and her pupils
                    at the residence of Judge John S. Tarkington for the purpose of helping the newsboys' home.
                    The program was reported to be delightful and the audience, though only fair in size, was
                    "super-fair in quality." Moreover, a "comfortable amount of money was
                    netted." The reporter concluded that " `parlor concerts' should
                    … become the feature of amusement this season."19
            
            Group music activities were important to the culture of 
                        Indianapolis
                     because they constituted a training ground for those with musical talent who were to
                    become skilled amateur or professional performers, and at the same time gave opportunity for large
                    numbers of interested persons to participate in musical activities. Vocal music was far more popular
                    than instrumental music. Although there were probably never less than two bands in active
                    organization, and each musical society maintained an orchestra as well as a chorus, most of the
                    performances gave principal expression to vocal music. Musicians who came from other cities either
                    for individual concerts or to participate in the May festivals were principally vocalists.
            Among the instrumentalists active during the seventies was the Philharmonic Society. One of their
                    evening concerts included compositions by Mendelssohn, Schumann, Strauss, and Schubert. Many of the
                    "best citizens" attended and the orchestra was pronounced
                        "superb."20 Another instrumental group, the Academy of
                    Music orchestra, was criticized for playing classical music; the reporter complained that though the
                    program was more lively than usual, they had not learned to "drop grave yard
                        melodies."21
            
            As early as February, 1874, musicians in 
                        Indianapolis
                     were involved in labor troubles. Members of the Academy of Music orchestra, said to be
                    the lowest paid orchestra in the West, were employed by the week or day, not by the season, and were
                    thus paid only for the days they actually 
                  
                     18 Interview with Anna Hasselman. 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, December 7, 1874.
                  
                     19
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, June 18, 1879.
                  
                     20
                            Ibid., January 26, 1874.
                  
                     21
                            Ibid., January 29, 1874.
               
                     performed, which, in one instance, amounted to thirteen weeks
                    less one day during a five-months' period in the best part of the theatrical season; it may
                    be assumed that they were paid little or nothing for the balance of that year. In order to support
                    themselves they had to do other work, and they were permitted to furnish substitutes in the
                    orchestra if their affairs were in conflict. The question raised was whether a member could
                    "reasonably be called on to refuse other employment when the Academy alone yields just
                    enough to insure slow starvation."22
            
            In 1875 the chamber concerts, which had been well received the preceding season, were revived and a
                    series of five or six programs of classical music was planned. But the next year one of the concerts
                    held at Exchange Hall was a financial failure. Organ concerts were held occasionally; one by a
                    Professor Clarke at the First Baptist Church was much enjoyed by a fair-sized audience despite the
                    fact that the program was long and "above the comprehension of the average
                        listener."23
            
            The 
                        Indianapolis
                     directory for 1875 lists two bands, Bradshaw's band and the Mayer and Smith
                    band. In 1876 there were nine organized bands with a total of 117 musicians. In 1879 the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Ladies' Cornet Band, an organization of amateurs, gave a successful concert
                    which was attended by "one of the finest audiences of the season." Thus
                    encouraged, a few weeks later another group of fourteen ladies organized a cornet band under the
                    leadership of George T. Binager.24
            
            Henry D. Beissenherz was almost a musical institution in himself. During this decade he conducted a
                    band which gave concerts at intervals. For many years thereafter, his organization furnished music
                    for English's Opera House and for a wide variety of public gatherings. However, in 1879 his
                    benefit concert failed financially, although the audience of a few hundred was appreciative
                    "almost to the point of rudeness." This failure may be partly explained by the
                    fact that two other programs were held the same evening, one by the Harmonic Chorus Society, and the
                    other by the Maennerchor which held its summer night's festival at Phoenix 
                  
                     22
                            Ibid., February 3, 1874.
                  
                     23
                            Ibid., September 24 and 29, 1875; January 20, 1876.
                  
                     24
                            Ibid., March 30, 1876; June 27, July 12, 1879.
               
                     Garden.25
                    
                        Indianapolis
                     possessed too few music lovers to assure three good audiences simultaneously. A similar
                    situation occurred again during the next decade when the theatrical competition was keen.
            A few weeks before his benefit concert, Beissenherz had proposed leasing six acres on the north side
                    of 
                        Fall Creek
                    , where it is crossed by the 
                        Illinois
                     Street bridge, for a summer garden where full brass band concerts would be held twice a
                    week. This plan was contingent on the extension of the streetcar line from the corner of Twelfth
                    Street to the proposed garden, a distance of half a mile.26 If this garden was
                    in fact established, it was probably a forerunner of the Fairbanks Garden of the 1890's
                    which was located at approximately the same place. At the latter garden music entertained the
                    patrons who were seated at outdoor tables where light refreshments were available. Several such
                    gardens were to be found in the city in the 1870's, particularly along East 
                        Washington
                     Street, and were frequented by a class of people hardly to be considered among the
                    cultured population of 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            Musicians from other cities who gave concerts in 
                        Indianapolis
                     customarily received a warm welcome. One of these, nineteen-year-old Julia Rive, a
                    pianist from 
                        Cincinnati
                    , appeared before an unusually small but select audience at Masonic Hall, April 25,
                    1874. The program, especially arranged as a farewell concert for Professor Thomas N. Caulfield,
                    included several other musicians who performed before the appearance of Miss Rive. A newspaper
                    critic stated that she was "without doubt the finest lady pianist ever to come before an 
                        Indianapolis
                     audience." She performed in the city twice the next year, in May and December
                    of 1876, and again in 1877 when she was announced as Mme Julia Rive-King. Though her audiences were
                    not always large, they were highly appreciative and regarded her as the "most wonderful of
                        performers."27 Earlier, in December, 1875, she had completely
                    captivated her listeners. "None can compare with Miss Rive except Rubenstein, and he excels
                    her only in one or two points perhaps unattainable by a female 
                  
                     25
                            Ibid., June 2, 1879.
                  
                     26
                            Ibid., May 2, 1879. Twelfth Street in 1879 was located where Twenty-first
                            Street is today.
                  
                     27
                            Ibid., April 25, 1874; May 8, December 4, 1875; October 30, 1877.
               
                     artist," declared the critic of the News. She appeared to be untiring, playing closing numbers of her program with as much vigor
                    and animation as she exhibited at the beginning. At the close the audience paid her a rare tribute
                    and "remained motionless after the last tones had died away, unwilling to believe the
                    performance at an end."28
            
            In 1876 a world-famous pianist, Hans von Bülow, offered two concerts in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The small audience at first seemed cold and unsympathetic until "warmed and
                    enthused by the consummate genius of the artist." Hopeful that the next would see a full
                    house "for the credit of 
                        Indianapolis
                     musical taste and culture," the News was constrained to
                    report another "slim house." Since music lovers of the city had turned out en
                    masse for performances less meritorious, the cause of this apparent lack of enthusiasm was probably
                    the "close financial times." Two dollars seemed altogether too much to pay to hear
                    only one performer, even though he were first class, for even in such times people often willingly
                    paid more to hear an opera troupe with a large chorus. Moreover, von Bülow was suspected
                    of being in the pay of a piano manufacturer! So the two-dollar admission was regarded as extortion
                    or fraud by the public who refused to patronize the concert. All this "in vindication of 
                        Indianapolis
                     musical taste."29 Quantity rather than quality was then
                    the criterion of musical culture and excellence. Not how sweet but how loud!
            Among the out-of-town ensembles and orchestras appearing in the Hoosier capital in the seventies, the 
                        Boston
                     Philharmonic Club, regarded as the finest musical organization in America, gave three
                    concerts at Bradshaw Music Hall. In 1877 the Mendelssohn Quintette Club of 
                        Boston
                     gave "one of the best performances ever heard here" to "one
                    of the best audiences ever assembled." Two years later they performed again in a
                    "season of most delightful music."30
            
            The high point of orchestral music was the two Theodore Thomas concerts in 1875. Each night the Grand
                    Opera House was filled to the last seat by the "best audience 
                        Indianapolis
                     can produce." Concerning the second concert a critic declared, 
                  
                     28
                            Ibid., December 4, 1875.
                  
                     29
                            Ibid., February 29, March 1, 1876.
                  
                     30
                            Ibid., April 26, 1875; March 3, 1877; April 8, 1879.
               
                    
                    
                        It was a magnificent close to one of the most successful musical seasons ever enjoyed in 
                                Indianapolis
                            . It is a source of gratification that these concerts have been so well
                            patronized by the most intelligent and appreciative of our citizens. It is to be hoped that
                            the reception Mr. Thomas has this time met with will induce him to include our city in his
                            list whenever he makes a tour of the West.31
                  
                     Returning in 1877 for two concerts, Thomas found his public not so enthusiastic and his
                    audiences growing steadily smaller. Hard times were taking their toll.
            In the field of group vocal music, the earliest and greatest contribution was made by the Germans.
                    The example set by the Maennerchor and other German singing societies was followed by several
                    societies featuring English language singing. In the German group, the Maennerchor, established in
                    1854, sponsored the elaborate Saengerfest of 1867, which at that time consisted of only thirty
                    members. From 1873 to 1880 the Maennerchor was under the direction of Max Leckner and was often
                    assisted by prominent singers of 
                        Indianapolis
                     outside the German group.32 Their concerts and entertainments were
                    held in 
                        Washington
                     Hall until 1878 when the new Maennerchor Hall was put to use. Formerly the old City
                    Hall and police court room, it was completely redecorated with frescoed ceilings and walls. A large
                    stage was built in the south end and equipped with a scenic drop curtain painted by August Metzner.
                    The gallery was converted into a refreshment room with tables, the old committee room below into a
                    restaurant, and the second floor into club rooms. Thus the entire building was a sort of assembly
                    hall for all the German societies. The moving-in was accompanied by a procession around the city
                    with torches and Chinese lanterns, followed by a program of music and speeches—a notable
                    event in the history of the German organization.33 The hall was then dedicated
                    by a concert, one of the very best ever given in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , featuring Clara Reinmann as soloist, the 
                        Louisville
                     orchestra, and the 
                        Louisville
                     Liederkranz Chorus.34
            
            
               
                  31
                        Ibid., October 21, 1875; May 2, 1877.
               
                  32 Josef Keller, Festschrift zur Feier des Goldenen
                            Jubiläums des 
                                Indianapolis
                             Männerchor am 23., 24. und 25. Juni 1904 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1904).
               
                  33
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, March 16, 1878.
               
                  34
                        Ibid., March 26, 1878.
            
            
            The regular season for Maennerchor activities usually began in middle or late October and ended the
                    latter part of May. Monthly rehearsals, sometimes referred to as concerts, were held at which other
                    soloists and singing societies often participated. After the musical part of the program was
                    concluded, the floor would be cleared and dancing "indulged in to a late hour."35 In April, 1878, arrangements were made for fortnightly concerts, and the
                    Maennerchor and Philharmonic societies planned to unite under the name of the German Singing
                    Society. In addition to the regular season's activities, the Maennerchor, loath to cease
                    musical activity entirely through the summer, generally gave a "summer night's
                    festival" at a suitable place, such as the Phoenix Garden at the corner of Meridian and
                    Morris streets. There would be a concert, festoons of lights, banners, fireworks at intervals, and
                    dancing until late in the evening. The festival in 1878 also provided a convenient meeting place for
                    politicians and candidates who were evident in large numbers.36
            
            At times the progress of the German musical societies was obstructed by disagreement strong enough to
                    divide the membership or at least interfere with normal activities of the organization. In the fall
                    of 1879 one such incident occurred, and the Maennerchor anniversary festival which was scheduled for
                    September was not held until the following spring, "owing to a slight disruption among the
                    members." All former active members were urged to participate in the "festival
                    chorus" which was to function for only that performance.37
            
            The Lyra Society, one of the German musical organizations established in 1876 or 1877 as a result of
                    one of these disagreements, was soon invited to join the Maennerchor; but the Lyra Society rejected
                    the proposal and proceeded to elect Carl H. Weegmann director. The Lyra at this time was said to be
                        flourishing.38 In October, 1877, at the opening concert of the season, the
                    Lyra orchestra, led by Emil Wulschner, former leader of the Royal Orchestra at Munich, did excellent
                    work for so young an organization and aroused the audience to a "high pitch of
                    enthusiasm." The concert 
                  
                     35
                            Ibid., May 22, 1874; October 16, 1875; April 22, 1876; March 15, 1877.
                  
                     36
                            Ibid., June 14, 1877; April 15, August 13, 1878; August 21, 1879.
                  
                     37
                            Ibid., November 10, 1879.
                  
                     38
                     Ibid., June 12 and 13, 1877.
               
                     closed with the usual dance. A series of highly successful
                    entertainments followed, the newspapers reporting favorably. Professor Wulschner was apparently a
                    leader of rare ability and the Lyra orchestra was considered the finest instrumental organization in
                    the city, superior to any other orchestra that had ever performed in 
                        Indianapolis
                     except the Theodore Thomas orchestra and the Patrick S. Gilmore orchestra of 
                        Boston
                    .39 Lyra concerts so far had been held in 
                        Washington
                     Hall, but in July, 1879, the society dedicated its new home in the German-English
                    school building on 
                        Maryland
                     Street with a musical and social entertainment.40
            
            Another German singing society, the Liederkranz, maintained an active program during this period.
                    This group, which had a number of industrial and factory workers as members,41
                    probably performed a lighter, more popular type of music. On one occasion, the Liederkranz concert
                    elicited much enthusiasm from its large audience which had come to the program despite the
                    "frightful dampness of the weather."42
            
            Membership in German singing societies was usually confined to men, but women had their societies,
                    too, and often held separate entertainments. Such an event was the summer night's festival
                    held by the ladies' section of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Social Turnverein at the home of Mrs. Louis Schulmeyer, president of the
                    ladies' section of the 
                        Ohio
                     Valley Turnverein.43
            
            The principal musical organizations of the English-speaking group of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , organized much like the German societies, were the Choral Union, the Harmonic Society,
                    and the Cecilian Glee Club. The Choral Union, oldest of these groups, was founded in 1869 and by
                    1877 had nearly a hundred members. Factional strife divided this group, just as it had the Germans,
                    and in 1875 the Harmonic Society was formed by these dissenters. Despite efforts to reunite the
                    dissidents no consolidation was achieved.44
            
            The Choral Union was directed by James S. Black, and its orchestra by Emil Wulschner, who also
                    directed the Lyra 
                  
                     39
                            Ibid., October 26, 1877; March 7, June 14, 1878.
                  
                     40
                            Ibid., July 31, 1879.
                  
                     41 Interview with Mrs. Carl Lieber.
                  
                     42
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, January 28, 1876.
                  
                     43
                            Ibid., August 21, 1878.
                  
                     44
                            Ibid., October 13, 1875; December 13, 1877; July 1, 1878.
               
                     orchestra. The objective of the Choral Union, as well as of the
                    Harmonic Society, was the cultivation of music among the people of the community. The type of music
                    generally prepared for public performance was the oratorio and other music of sacred character. The
                    Choral Union performed The Messiah, Judas Maccabaeus, The Creation, The Seasons,
                    and Elijah, performing seven oratorios in the first eight years of its
                        existence.45
            
            The Choral Union flourished under the direction of Emil Wulschner as had the Lyra Society. In 1878
                    the News stated that there had never been "so much enthusiasm in any of
                    our home societies as … in the union since Wulschner assumed the baton."46 He apparently directed both the chorus and the orchestra at the concert held
                    that season in the First Baptist Church. The immense audience so entirely filled the pews, aisles,
                    galleries, and vestibules of the church that many were turned away. In spite of the overcrowding the
                    audience seemed thoroughly pleased with the excellent performance. The critic, trying to be
                    objective, stated: 
                        Evidences of crudeness and want of sufficient practice were not wanting, but it was clearly
                            demonstrated to the observer that Mr. Wulschner is competent to the task he has undertaken,
                            and that with the voices under his direction he can in time bring out as fine a society as
                            any city in the west can boast of. The support of the orchestra in the choruses assisted
                            very materially in making them successful.47
                  
                     At the performance of Elijah in 1877 programs were furnished. Copies of
                    Benham's Musical Review, an 
                        Indianapolis
                     publication containing a review and analysis of Elijah, were placed
                    in all the seats. The oratorio was so well performed that it was reported that "Mendelssohn
                    was probably never more understandingly listened to anywhere," and that a "better
                    satisfied audience never adjourned in 
                        Indianapolis
                    ." Artists who participated included Myron W. Whitney, "the greatest
                    living oratorio basso"; W. H. Fessenden, a favorite of the evening; Professor Penfield at
                    the organ; and Mme Ada Heine at the piano.48
            
            
               
                  45
                        Ibid., April 22, 1874; May 12, 1875; May 23, 1876; December 13, 1877.
               
                  46
                        Ibid., February 18, 1878.
               
                  47
                        Ibid., February 20, 1878.
               
                  48
                        Ibid., June 13, 1877.
            
            
            As the decade advanced the Choral Union appeared to increase in popularity, as indicated by the
                    quality and degree of appreciation of the audiences. This success was doubtless to some degree the
                    result of occasional lectures given in the interest of musical culture. As early as 1874 J. Henry
                    Kappes addressed the members urging a strong program of musical education. He pointed out examples
                    of progress in music and the fine arts, evidences which indicated to him that 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the Meridian City, might eventually supplant 
                        Boston
                     in culture and that it might then be called "the Hub!"49 On the tenth anniversary of the Choral Union in June, 1879, the Reverend Edward A.
                    Bradley urged raising a fund for the establishment of a conservatory of music in 
                        Indianapolis
                    ,50 so that musical culture need not depend solely on the work of
                    various clubs, purely voluntary groups, but would be supported instead by an establishment with a
                    continuous and progressive program in operation.
            The Harmonic Society, the other "oratorio-singing society," proceeded under the
                    baton of W. H. Clarke and secured a regular place for its meetings soon after its organization.
                    William H. Clarke and Company, organ builders," had secured a building occupied by Trinity
                    Church at 
                        Alabama
                     and North streets and planned to fit it up as an organ studio and exhibition hall. The
                    terraced stage would provide room for a hundred singers and a fine two-manual organ was to be
                    installed. The new Harmonic Chorus Society planned to give regular monthly invitational concerts of
                    classical and other types of music.52
            
            General public reaction, however, was somewhat less enthusiastic for the Harmonic Society than for
                    the Choral Union. In 1876 a program was rather coolly received by the small audience, and the
                    reporter was inclined to criticize the society for its lack of preparation.53
                    Yet, later that season a fine audience attended the performance of Costa's Naaman at the Grand Opera House, and the affair was declared successful. Among the
                    soloists was the young contralto, Sallie Bingham, and others of equally professional caliber. One
                    defect 
                  
                     49
                            Ibid., December 16, 1874.
                  
                     50
                            Ibid., June 25, 1879.
                  
                     51 It is not known whether the director of the Harmonic Society had
                            any connection with this firm.
                  
                     52
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, May 29, 1877.
                  
                     53
                            Ibid., February 9, 1876.
               
                     was apparent; it had no orchestra, only a piano for
                        accompaniment.54 The final Harmonic concert of the next season proved to be
                    a flat financial failure. The audience, only slightly larger than the chorus, was generally
                    unresponsive despite the quality of the singing.55 The following year, the
                    Harmonic Hall was only about half filled for the performance of Costa's oratorio Eli. It was rumored that the Harmonic Society and the Choral Union were at this
                    time contemplating a merger, but it failed to materialize.58
            
            The Cecilian Club, smaller than the other societies with a membership of only twenty-five, met at
                    Wright's new business block for rehearsals which were managed by Frank Scott.57
            
            Concerts of these societies were probably of the paid-admission variety, so that the hard times of
                    the seventies would have had a direct effect upon attendance. Moreover, the total number of citizens
                    who might be depended upon to swell the attendance of musical affairs was not large. Thus, if too
                    many performances were scheduled for the same evening, someone would certainly have to sing to empty
                    benches.
            Attendance at the opera was always good, for this was a social event for the upper classes as well as
                    an opportunity for genuine music lovers. It was the fashionable thing to go to the opera. Since the
                    amount and kind of public entertainment for the well-to-do was somewhat limited, opera became a
                    "must" for them. Nevertheless, the depression had some effect on opera in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Most companies were well received, but some were plagued by financial difficulty. In
                    1875 at the two performances of the Strakosch Italian Opera Company, the audiences were small and
                    the management lost heavily.58 The following year the company's opera
                    was scheduled to appear for two nights but was cancelled because of "financial
                        pressure."59
            
            The number of scheduled operatic performances was noticeably greater in 1873-1874 and the following
                    season than 
                  
                     54
                            Ibid., May 31, 1876.
                  
                     55
                            Ibid., April 18, 1877.
                  
                     56
                            Ibid., April 4, 1878.
                  
                     57
                            Ibid., October 23, 1874.
                  
                     58
                            Ibid., February 11, 1875.
                  
                     59
                            Ibid., December 1, 1876.
               
                     during the next season, 1875–1876, when the
                    depression was so severe in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . No early winter season of opera was booked in 1877, nor any for the spring season in
                    1878, probably as a result of the hard times. The 1878–1879 schedule was more nearly
                    equal to that of 1873–1874.
            Of some interest in connection with the success or failure of an operatic season was the scheduling
                    and local management of opera by the legitimate theater. Theatrical managers brought opera companies
                    to the city as a part of their season's program. This enabled them to vary their schedule
                    with burlesque or minstrels to make up for any deficit they might have sustained because of the
                    failure of an operatic season. Apparently no special agency managed or scheduled concerts of
                    out-of-town artists or operatic performances. The appearance of expert professional musicians seems
                    to be somewhat uncertain and haphazard until the 1890's when Ona B. Talbot took over the
                    concert management. The scheduling of opera continued in the legitimate theater probably because it
                    required the facilities of the theaters, or opera houses, as they were called.
            Thoughout the decade of the seventies several of the more serious operas were performed but the
                    lighter type was more popular; at least two performances of each of the following were given: The Chimes of Normandy, The Bohemian Girl, and H. M. S.
                    Pinafore. Always welcome in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and always highly praised for her superb contralto voice was Zelda Seguin, who with her
                    husband, Edward Seguin, appeared with Emma Abbott and others in productions of the Hess Opera
                    Company during the 1878-1879 season.
            The opera Belshazzar, King of Babylon, produced in 1875, was a most ambitious
                    undertaking for the Cecilian Glee Club. The entire Philharmonic Orchestra and a full brass band
                    especially organized for the occasion assisted the larger chorus. Costumes valued at four thousand
                    dollars were worn by the cast, and beautiful scenery prepared especially for the opera helped make
                    it, according to the advertisement, the "grandest entertainment of the season." An
                    entirely new cast performed each evening for admission prices of from fifty cents to
                        $1.25.60 This was probably the 
                  
                     60
                            Ibid., January 20, 1875.
               
                     only local attempt to produce opera during the decade of the
                    seventies. A few years later the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Opera Company was organized.61
            
            For the most part, the critic who wrote accounts of operatic performances had nothing but praise for
                    the presentation, the audience and the community. In 1874, after a performance of
                    Halévy's La Juive, the reporter stated that this work was
                    seldom presented partly because 
                        an average audience is not wont to be sufficiently advanced in musical taste and culture to
                            appreciate its grandeur of style and depth of scientific construction. That an 
                                Indianapolis
                             audience have listened to and admired, this truly classic work, is creditable
                            alike to our community and the artists who have compelled such a tribute.62
                  
                     Later, in 1878, the critic offered this caustic comment on the performance of Mignon by the Strakosch Opera Company: 
                        The opera last night was an event in the history of our badly-constructed, ill-ventilated,
                            uncomfortable opera house. The building was literally `packed' with people, there
                            was hardly breathing space left when the curtain rose… The merits of the overture
                            cannot be well told, there was so much noise from late comers, and chatting and laughing by
                            the early comers.63
                  
                     And this even more caustic comment on the next performance: 
                        The audience which filled almost every seat in the opera house last evening and overflowed
                            into the lobbies was so illmannered that it deserves the first notice. During the overture
                            men went to and fro as the original Mephistopheles did when he mingled with the sons of men
                            who came to show themselves, and there was general laughing and chatting with as little
                            regard to the time and place as if it had been the first flare of a brass band at a circus.
                            Thus Gounod's glorious prelude to his master-work was almost utterly drowned in the
                            senseless babble that busied the audience with its own appearance. It was a decided
                            reflection on the musical taste of the assembled multitude and could not by any possibility
                            be construed into a certificate of good manners. This will apply also to a nervous desire to
                            applaud at every pause of a sustained flight of singing or acting, after the manner of
                            political 
                        
                           61 Dunn, Greater 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , I, 532.
                        
                           62
                                    
                                        Indianapolis
                                    
                                    News, March 28, 1874.
                        
                           63
                                    Ibid., February 27, 1878.
                     
                             speeches. All this has been noticeable through this
                            opera season and it is to be hoped at the next opportunity will be conspicuous by its
                                absence.64
                  
                     Comment on the work of various members of the cast continued in the same vein.
            The earliest mention of ticket scalpers during this period was in March, 1879. When tickets were
                    placed on sale for performances of the Strakosch Opera Company, scheduled the following week, the
                    usual rush to the box office did not occur, for speculators had purchased blocks of tickets and were
                    selling them elsewhere. Upon investigation the reporter encountered Thomas Taylor, agent for the
                    George C. Boniface Company which was billed for an appearance the following week. The agent
                    maintained that speculation was a fair practice, that in 
                  New York, Chicago, St. Louis
               , and other cities it was regularly done. Frequently the
                    speculator and agent would work together and share the profits. 
                        When Strakosch had [Christine] Nilsson he knew he could sell every seat legitimately. Times
                            were flush; money plenty. Now all he wants is to sell the house. He doesn't care
                            who buys it. It's business, that's all.65
                  
                     The next day seats were not selling well; good ones were still available in spite of the
                    sharks. When the night of performance arrived, a very large house was present for Carmen with all
                    the best seats taken. The following night only a thin audience turned out for La
                        Traviata, which, though excellently performed, failed financially. The reporter declared
                    that "the management have only themselves to thank that the season was not a success
                        financially."67
            
            Near the close of the decade a musical event of interest occurred. Carlotta Patti, sister of the
                    famous Adelina Patti, appeared in a concert at Masonic Hall. 
                        Indianapolis
                     music lovers considered this a rare treat, for Carlotta Patti was regarded as the most
                    brilliant vocalist who ever "delighted an American audience, not even excepting her more
                    famous sister."67 Her brilliant performance was greeted with vociferous
                    enthusiasm and demands for numerous encores. "Everything, almost, was encored, and this
                    manifestation of 
                  
                     64
                            Ibid., February 28, 1878
                  
                     65
                            Ibid., March 25, 1879.
                  
                     66
                            Ibid., March 26 and 31, 1879.
                  
                     67
                            Ibid., November 8, 1879.
               
                     approval was carried to and across the verge of rudeness, and
                    showed more of a spirit of greed than a discrimination of what was really worthy."68 Five years earlier a reporter had urged that home managers ought to be
                    careful in arranging programs, for very few appreciated the beauties of vocal gymnastics; a large
                    proportion of simple songs should be well sung to insure full appreciation. Otherwise, he warned,
                    until everyone had become an educated musician the programs would fail.69 The
                    gulf between performer and listener was growing wider in spite of the wonderful progress made by the
                    many singing societies, both German and English.
            After 1880 in the country at large the increased prosperity of the middle classes had a tendency to
                    widen the scope of musical activity. Greater patronage and large endowments aided musical expression
                    in numerous ways. The endowment of the 
                        New York
                     Symphony by Henry L. Higginson in 1881 and the opening of the new Metropolitan Opera
                    House in 1883 set a goal for the rest of the country. Not all music lovers could visit 
                        New York
                     often, but what their eastern cousins had done they in the West felt capable of
                    accomplishing also. Musical festivals had become popular in the East and a passion for bigness
                    seemed much in evidence. In 
                        Boston
                     in 1869, 10,000 voices and a 1,000-piece orchestra had performed under the direction of
                    Patrick S. Gilmore. In 1872 for a performance of Il Trovatore 20,000 voices and a
                    2,000-piece orchestra sang and played while firemen pounded fifty anvils and a battery of six cannon
                    was discharged by electricity before an audience of some 40,000. This must have impressed Johann
                    Strauss and Franz Abt who were said to be present.70
            
            Many European artists in this country, and most of the important American musicians had studied with
                    foreign masters either in this country or abroad. Regardless of their ability to perform or compose,
                    Americans seemed to be much influenced by European trends in this field and it was claimed that
                    "America had nothing distinctive to say in 
                  
                     68
                            Ibid., November 12, 1879.
                  
                     69
                            Ibid., June 5, 1874.
                  
                     70 Charles A. and Mary R. Beard, The Rise of American
                                Civilization (4 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1927), II, 458–459; 
                                Indianapolis
                             News, February 8, 1889,
               
                     music," no indigenous folk music or strong national
                    feeling, that "at no hour in the gilded age did a flame illuminate the
                        heavens."71
            
            After the great wave of German immigration—the coming of the Forty-eighters preceding the
                    Civil War—many more German immigrants arrived in the early seventies. Within a short time
                    these people were finding expression in various community activities, especially music, and were
                    making a valuable cultural contribution. Large numbers of Germans settled in 
                        Indianapolis
                     as well as in other midwestern cities, such as 
                        Milwaukee
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                    , and many musical societies were established. Saengerfests had been held in 
                        Indianapolis
                     as well as in other cities, and now, in the eighties, this activity spread beyond the
                    German societies into other musical groups and there arose in 
                        Indianapolis
                     a common desire to organize large music festivals similar to those held in other
                    cities. Some preferred a regular series of fine concerts rather than festivals for the reason that
                    good music should be heard at more frequent intervals throughout the year and not just at festivals.
                    At any rate, the festivals were appreciated by the residents of 
                        Indianapolis
                     and much credit was given to the Germans for their contribution. Musical taste in the
                    Inland City had progressed considerably during the preceding generation.72
            
            Another trend typical of the "golden" decade, 1880–1890, was the
                    popularity of light opera and the local urge to produce it. Group musical performances had found
                    such favor in the various choral societies that when the Gilbert and Sullivan works began to appear
                    musicians in 
                        Indianapolis
                     at once took them up. Amateur groups produced these and other light operas throughout
                    the decade. Both light opera and the music festivals encouraged increased participation in musical
                    activities and wider appreciation by the general public. The German societies by perfecting their
                    organizations and giving concerts under the batons of well-paid professional directors, and often
                    using outside soloists, set a standard which effectively raised the level of musical culture in the
                        city.73
            
            
               
                  71 Beard and Beard, The Rise of American Civilization,
                        II, 458–459.
               
                  72 Frédéric Louis Ritter, Music in
                            America (
                            New York
                        , 1884), 371–384; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, September 8, 1883.
               
                  73 Dunn, Greater 
                                Indianapolis
                            , I, 532; Martha F. Bellinger, "Music in 
                            Indianapolis
                        ," Indiana Magazine of History, XLI (1945),
                        351–353; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, September 17, 1887.
            
            
            The natural consequence of this activity was increased encouragement of local talent. Good teachers
                    of music, especially voice, found an expanding clientele and those with special ability found the
                    means to study in the East or in Europe. Regular student recitals were held and benefits given to
                    assist departing musicians both morally and financially; and of course the concerts of the singing
                    societies and the festivals gave added experience to these novices. A few were fortunate in winning
                    places in operatic companies in the East, but local companies provided some opportunities for those
                    less fortunate. Katie McDowell was one of those who secured an engagement with an eastern company.
                    In the 1883–1884 season she performed with the 
                        New York
                     Opera Company in Queen's Lace Handkerchief.
               74
            
            
               
                        Cincinnati
                     musical facilities were convenient enough to enable young 
                        Indianapolis
                     singers to go there for study, and occasionally soloists from that area gave concerts
                    in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .75 Ruth and Oliver Torbett, Grace D. Levering, and Perle Rouse
                    attended 
                        Cincinnati
                     College early in the eighties.76 On occasion 
                        Indianapolis
                     reciprocated by sending a soloist to 
                        Cincinnati
                     for a concert. Armin Recker, instructor in cello in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , composer, and former cellist with the Theodore Thomas orchestra, was engaged to play
                    in the orchestra and gave several cello solos at the 
                        Cincinnati
                     centennial celebration. At least one local singer, Saidee (Sarah Layton) Walker, went
                    to 
                        Chicago
                     to study with Charles Abercrombie in 1888.77
            
            Numerous benefit concerts were held which gave opportunity to many talented singers. Usually the
                    honored performer appeared two or three times on the program, with the balance of the concert
                    performed by other local musicians and readers of dramatic and poetic selections. Frequently James
                    Whitcomb Riley gave readings on these programs. Sometimes these affairs were referred to as
                    "testimonial concerts." A benefit held for Constance A. Heine, pianist, at
                    Pfafflin's music rooms in 1883 was well attended and was declared 
                  
                     74
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, September 17, 1877; English's Opera House programs,
                            1883–1884, no. 33, MS collection, Indiana Division, Indiana State Library.
                  
                     75
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, February 19, 1880
                  
                     76
                            Ibid., January 5 and 13, April 5, June 3, 1880.
                  
                     77
                            Ibid., June 30, 1888.
               
                     to be a most pleasant affair.78 In 1886 a
                    "testimonial" was given at 
                        Plymouth
                     Church to Mrs. Levering who was assisted by numerous groups and soloists, both vocal
                    and instrumental, including a string quartet and a vocal quartet from the St. Cecilia Society. A
                    large audience of literary and musical people of the city regarded the concert as a great
                        success.79 In 1889 a benefit was given to Annie Abromet who then departed
                    for Europe to study voice. She was assisted by Zelda Seguin Wallace.80 During
                    that year other singers of ability were mentioned by the press. Maud Myers, contralto, was winning a
                    reputation in concerts in 
                        Minneapolis
                    , and Carolyn Cooper was about to return home after studying voice for a year in 
                        Paris
                    . Charles Holman Black, son of Professor J. S. Black, was heard in a concert at the
                    Grand Opera House. This was the occasion for comment on the work of the popular voice teacher:
                        
                        Professor J. S. Black's annual concerts have always shown a high degree of
                            excellence, and his work here has developed some of the finest singers the city has had. It
                            is not saying too much to assert that the high state of musical culture here is due more to
                            Professor Black than any other one person.81
                  
                     As for the son, he thoroughly pleased his audience and was regarded by some as superior to
                    all the professional baritones who had sung in the city. It was pointed out that more substantial
                    recognition than mere praise might be accorded him. Inasmuch as he was a Hoosier and had been reared
                    in the capital of the state, his success, it was hoped, would encourage other talented Hoosiers. A
                    critic suggested that Indianians might bear testimony to their regard for Mr. Black by recalling him
                    from Europe to appear at the next May festival instead of engaging a foreign singer of less ability.
                    He left shortly after this concert for 
                        Washington
                     where he was honored by President Benjamin Harrison at a musicale given at the White
                    House, after which he departed for Europe and study.82
            
            
               
                  78
                        Ibid., April 12 and 19, 1883.
               
                  79
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, October 23, 1886.
               
                  80
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, February 9, 1889.
               
                  81
                        Ibid., September 21, October 5 and 7, 1889.
               
                  82
                        Ibid., November 2, 1889.
            
            
            As has already been noted, prominent local citizens sometimes addressed invitations to visiting
                    performers requesting them to appear in concert and asking them to set the time and place they
                    wished to sing. All interested persons would sign the letter, and this list of names itself was some
                    indication of the measure of popularity of the musician: 
                  
                     
                        
                                    February 27, 1880.
                                
                        Miss Lillian Stoddard:
                        The citizens of 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     whom you have so often delighted with your singing on so many public
                                    occasions, take pleasure in tendering to you a complimentary benefit at such time
                                    and place as will meet your convenience.
                        So many of our home-concert audiences have been placed under obligation to you for
                                    entertainment and pleasure, that we feel justified in pledging you a most substantial evidence of our appreciation in the event of your
                                    acceptance of this invitation.
                        
                                    Very respectfully, your friends,
                                    Daniel Macauley
                                    E. F. Claypool
                                    William W. Dudley
                                    S. C. Bannister
                                    Charles Soehner
                                    John C. S. Harrison
                                    J. D. Williams
                                    J. G. Shanklin
                                    T. A. Hendricks
                                    A. W. Hendricks
                                    E. B. Martindale
                                    Jno. C. Shoemaker
                                    Benj. Harrison
                                    S. M. Vernon
                                    Jno. W. Ray
                                    N. McCarty
                                    M. A. Downing
                                    Max Leckner
                                    C. E. Wright, M. D.
                                    J. A. Minick, M. D.83
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
            
            Mr. Hubert J. Schonacker, a local musician, received a similar invitation September 4, 1886, in which
                    the signers stated their desire to encourage and patronize native talent and asked that the musician
                    introduce his own compositions exclusively. Mrs. George H. Fleming, singer of ballads, and Grace D.
                    Levering of 
                        Indianapolis
                     received similar invitations which were signed by many prominent citizens including
                    several of the same persons who had signed Miss Stoddard's letter.84
            
            Sallie Bingham, whose musical ability was becoming recognized in the seventies, was heard in a
                    farewell concert at the Park Theatre, September 1, 1880, prior to her departure for the East and an
                    operatic career. A feature of this 
                  
                     83 MS collection, Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                  
                     84
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, September 11 and 12, October 3, 1886.
               
                     concert was a song, the words of which were written by James
                    Whitcomb Riley and the music by S. B. Morris. As usual she was assisted by a bevy of local musical
                        talent.85 Two years later she returned for a complimentary concert which was
                    much enjoyed by her audience. The improvement in her singing was noted and her critic stated that
                    the smoothness and finish with which she sang were proof of what cultivation and hard study could do
                    for a voice of fine natural quality.88
            
            A young singer who achieved an enviable reputation both here and abroad was Margaret Kackley, whose
                    sister Lavonne had been highly regarded in local musical circles a few years before. Margaret was
                    known professionally as Margaret Reid, a name she adopted after Parisians mispronounced her own
                    name. She studied for two and a half years in 
                        Boston
                     with Charles R. Adams and Augusto Rotoli, then went to 
                        Paris
                     for study. In May, 1889, she returned briefly to 
                        Indianapolis
                     to participate in the May festival and was given a benefit concert at 
                        Plymouth
                     Church where she was assisted by James Whitcomb Riley and others. She received an
                    ovation at her festival appearance and the critic commented: 
                        She opened her mouth and sang like a bird. Then the audience opened its mouth and yelled with
                            delight. Miss Reid has the town, and can give her orders.87
                  
                    
            
            Zelda Seguin Wallace had an excellent voice and sang many seasons in opera, appearing frequently
                    before 
                        Indianapolis
                     audiences who always received her warmly and with pride in her achievements. She
                    frequently participated in programs for the benefit of some local charity and in return was
                    benefited at concerts in her honor.88 She sang in 1883 at Ford's
                    Theatre in 
                        Washington
                     in the opera The Smugglers, written by John Philip Sousa, director of
                    the 
                        United States
                     Marine Band, and she was complimented there with a serenade by the Marine Band and the
                    Light Infantry Band.89 That same year she also sang with the 
                  
                     85
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, August 13, 19, and 23, September 1, 1880.
                  
                     86
                            Ibid., September 5, 1882.
                  
                     87
                            Ibid., April 13, 1889; see also ibid., January 5, March
                            5, May 30, June 3, 1889.
                  
                     88
                            Ibid., September 22, 1888.
                  
                     89
                            Ibid., March 14, April 2, 1883.
               
                     Emma Abbott Company and later under the management of Max
                        Strakosch.90 In 1887 she sang in 
                        Indianapolis
                     with the Duff Opera Company of which Lillian Russell was a prominent member.91
            
            In addition to these singers who were always encouraged by good audiences and much applause, 
                        Indianapolis
                     took pride in a number of young and rising composers among whom were Bessie Stone and
                    Barclay Walker. The latter wrote an opera which was successfully produced in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .92
            
            The 
                        Indianapolis
                     Sentinel up to this time had devoted little space to musical events but during this
                    decade began to publish a regular column of musical notes, an indication of the increasing
                    popularity of music in the city.
            Encouragement of local talent was not reserved for soloists but extended to group efforts as well,
                    and a serious attempt was made to establish an operatic company in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . In 1881 or 1882 Professor Ora Pearson organized the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Opera Company, which flourished until about 1889.93 On April
                    18–19, 1882, this company produced The Chimes of Normandy at the Grand
                    Opera House under the direction of Professor Pearson. The chorus and orchestra, each with twenty
                    members, were said to excel the average professional operatic companies.94 Since
                        H. M. S. Pinafore and The Pirates of Penzance had been
                    performed during the preceding year, the company was probably established in 1881.95
            
            The next year Fra Diavolo, directed by Carl Barus, was performed May
                    11–12, 1883. William Castle of the Abbott Company of 
                        Chicago
                     was brought to the city to do the title role, while other parts were taken by local
                    members of the company. The cast was supported by a chorus of fifty voices. Audiences were said to
                    be large, fashionable, and appreciative.96
                    The Mikado was produced in 1886 and The Pirates of Penzance in
                    1889 under the direction of Alexander Ernestin-off.97
                    
                  
                     90
                            Ibid., March 21, May 15, November 20, 1883.
                  
                     91
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, March 3, 1887.
                  
                     92
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, July 18, 1886.
                  
                     93 Dunn, Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , I, 532; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, April 12, 1883; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Times, August 16, 1937.
                  
                     94 Dunn, Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , I, 532; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, April 20, 1882.
                  
                     95
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, April 20, 1882.
                  
                     96
                            Ibid., April 12 and 20, May 12, 1883.
               
                     In 1886 a local organization called the Home Opera Company
                    performed The Little Tycoon under the direction of Carl Barus.98 In 1889 the production of The Pirates of Penzance under
                    Ernestinoff's direction was again mentioned as that of the Home Opera Company.89
            
            A somewhat unusual and quite spectacular affair was the production of Naiad Queen
                    at the Park Theatre during the week of April 9, 1883. Nothing quite like it had ever before been
                    done in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Professor Arthur C. McKnight of 
                        Washington
                    , D.C., came to organize the children's chorus of five hundred voices, and for
                    a period of three months he rehearsed the chorus regularly every Saturday afternoon. Scenery cost
                    over thirty thousand dollars and many unusual effects were achieved. Fairies flew across the stage
                    to the accompaniment of beautiful music and children were transformed on the stage to the amazement
                    of the audience. It took one or two performances for the mechanical effects to operate smoothly, but
                    eventually all moved like clockwork and the large audiences were most enthusiastic. Many leading
                    adult musicians in the city, some of whom were also members of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Opera Company, assisted in the presentation.100
            
            Barclay Walker's opera, Maganon, was first produced in May, 1887, with Ora
                    Pearson as director. The next winter another performance was given under the composer's
                    direction after the libretto had been rewritten by Charles B. Foster of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Following this performance Mr. Walker announced that his score had been turned over to
                    a dramatist in 
                        Chicago
                     who was writing a completely new libretto and that his opera would later be produced by
                    professionals in 
                        Chicago
                     or 
                        New York
                    .101 Although nothing further was heard of this opera, it was
                    important as an expression of the advancement of musical culture in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . It was notable as the first work of a young, self-made musician, 
                  
                     97 Dunn, Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                     , I, 532.
                  
                     98
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, October 12, 1886.
                  
                     99
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, February 22 and 23, 1889. It may be that both these companies are
                            the same organization and that the 
                                Indianapolis
                             Opera Company had changed its name to the Home Opera Company, but there is no
                            evidence to confirm this.
                  
                     100 Dunn, Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                     , I, 532; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, April 6, 11, 12, and 13, 1883.
                  
                     101
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, May 20 and 23, 1887; February 15, June 16, 1888.
               
                     and whether it was good or bad, the fact that three or four
                    local performances were given and that large audiences attended is worthy of mention. Mr. Walker
                    went on to compose other types of music, vocal and instrumental solos, and one of his compositions,
                        Militaire, seemed to meet with success and resulted in substantial royalties
                    for the composer.102
            
            An important agency for raising the level of musical culture in 
                        Indianapolis
                     throughout this period was the Matinee Musicale, founded in 1876 or 1877, a
                    ladies' club said to be the second oldest women's music club in the 
                        United States
                    .103 Its purpose was to promote musical appreciation through the
                    study of the history of music, composers, and their works. Quite naturally the programs of the club
                    included the performance of the selections being studied, and at times it seemed that performance
                    was emphasized much more than study. There may have been a tendency to encourage a membership
                    composed principally of skilled musicians. Unquestionably the work of this club did raise the level
                    of musical taste and constituted an appreciative and discriminating audience for performers of
                    talent. Beginning with ten charter members, it remained a small and exclusive club for, seven years
                    later, its membership was limited to thirty.104 In addition to its regular
                    program it sponsored between two and four recitals each year by artists of renown; these were free
                    to members. Because the club soon established a fine reputation for excellence in performance, the
                    concerts which it sponsored were well attended by the general public and became events of social
                    importance for the community.105 The Matinee Musicale performed another valuable
                    service by promoting friendship among the musical-minded. Since 
                  
                     102
                            Ibid., September 22, 1888; April 13, 1889.
                  
                     103
                            Ibid., April 21, 1883; Dunn, Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , I, 532; Bellinger, "Music in 
                                Indianapolis
                            ," 356.
                  
                     104
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, October 8, 1889; Bellinger, "Music in 
                                Indianapolis
                            ," 356–357. Charter members were Mrs. Fred W. Baggs, Mrs.
                            Clara H. Eddy, Mrs. U. J. Hammond, Mrs. O. H. Hasselman, Mrs. W. C. Lynn, Mrs. S. L.
                            Morrison, Mrs. M. H. Spades, Mrs. A. G. Cox, Mrs. Marcia Willard, and Mrs. Emma Ridenour.
                            Kate Milner Rabb and William Herschell, An Account of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 and 
                                    Marion County
                                
                      (
                        Dayton, Ohio
                     , 1924), 78; Max R. Hyman, Hyman's Handbook of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                      (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1897), 217; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, April 21, 1883.
                  
                     105 Hyman, Handbook of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                     , 217. Compare this with the present Chamber Music Society which
                            emphasizes only the concert feature. 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, April 21, 1883; April 22, 1884; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, January 10, February 6, 1887.
               
                     personal conflicts and animosities caused so many of the early
                    clubs to be short-lived, there is no doubt that this society did much to keep the May festivals
                        going.106
            
            In October, 1881, a new singing organization, the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Choral Society, was organized with eighty-six charter members, and William C. Smock as
                    president. The following spring it adjourned, probably for the last time, owing to the sparse
                    attendance of its members.107 A short time later, in 1884, another organization
                    appeared, the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Chorus, composed mostly of members of the First Christian Church and directed by Ora
                        Pearson.108 Less than a year later it was announced that the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Chorus had voted to combine with the Mendelssohn Society under the leadership of
                    Professor Pearson. The combined groups, totaling some three hundred voices, planned to meet at 
                        Plymouth
                     Church.109
            
            The Mendelssohn Society, only recently established, was much benefited by this merger and in the
                    following December was said to contain a large share of the best musical talent of the city.110 In August, 1886, a benefit concert for the Young Men's Christian
                    Association building fund was planned, but by the following April it appeared that the society might
                    dissolve. Its membership, reduced to ninety-three, paid no dues and proceeds from concerts provided
                    the only source of revenue. These concerts apparently were not financially successful, for the
                    treasury was depleted and all the officers together with the director, Ora Pearson, expressed their
                    wish to resign.111 However, in December, 1887, the society gave a concert at 
                        Plymouth
                     Church under the direction of Carl Barus which was declared to be a great success.112 Two more concerts were given in March and in June, 1888, the latter offering
                    a larger and more varied program than the preceding ones, and were well attended by prominent
                    musicians of 
                        Indianapolis
                    .113
            
            
               
                  106 Dunn, Greater 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  , I, 532.
               
                  107
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, October 1 and 11, 1881; March 22, 1882.
               
                  108
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Evening Minute, December 13, 1884. There is no evidence that these two
                        societies had any connection with each other.
               
                  109
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, August 12, September 2, 1885.
               
                  110
                        Ibid., December 10 and 12, 1885.
               
                  111
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel, August 15, 1886; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, April 6, 1887.
               
                  112
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, December 10, 1887.
               
                  113
                        Ibid., March 14, June 13, 1888.
            
            
            Among the temporary organizations of the decade was the festival chorus of six hundred girls
                    assembled in rehearsal in 1886 for the benefit of the Young Men's Christian Association
                    building fund. These girls, ten to sixteen years old, were gathered from various Sunday schools of
                    the city into a chorus directed by Ora Pearson. Mrs. Frederick W. Britton of 
                        Cleveland
                     was the guest soloist and an orchestra of forty-three combined with the chorus to give
                    two concerts. The Mendelssohn Society also gave a concert for the Y.W.C.A. fund.114
            
            Orchestras were included in the German musical societies but the work of independent instrumental
                    groups received only slight notice during the eighties. The When Band, organized by the When
                    Clothing Store during the seventies as an advertising device, gave concerts in the eighties, some of
                    them in collaboration with other organizations.115 Joseph B. Cameron, cornetist,
                    organized a band in 1888, and planned a series of public concerts. Officers of this band were:
                    George E. Mills, president; Gustave Becker, vice-president; Perry Ingalls, secretary; and William
                    Carlin, treasurer.118 About the same time a Professor Belcher, who taught music
                    at 
                        Spencer
                    , attempted the organization in 
                        Indianapolis
                     of a thirty-piece military band.117 The principal musical
                    activities of the period, however, were vocal, and by far the most outstanding events were the May
                    festivals which began in 1886.
            The backbone of musical culture of the Inland City during the 1880's and which more than
                    anything else made possible the May festivals was the German singing societies. Chief of these was
                    the Maennerchor, which celebrated its twenty-fifth anniversary in 1880 with a program including the
                    music of Weber, Mozart, Wagner, Mendelssohn, Damrosch, Beethoven, Verdi, and Meyerbeer.118 Many hoped that this festival would open a new era in the history of music
                    in the city and become the forerunner of large music festivals that might be held biennially. A
                    critic saw what was hampering the tremendous growth not only of the singing 
                  
                     114
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, August 15, September 14, October 13, 1886.
                  
                     115
                            Ibid., August 5, September 2, 1886.
                  
                     116
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, August 10, 1888.
                  
                     117
                            Ibid., July 7, 1888.
                  
                     118 Keller, Festschrift zur Feier des Goldenen
                                Jubiläums des 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Männerchor, 30–31.
               
                     societies but of the city as a whole. He pointed out that 
                        Indianapolis
                     had sufficient talent and 
                        could the small prejudices and jealousies in our American and German societies be laid aside
                            and a grand rally had under one baton in the hands of an able director, no doubt we could
                            have a chorus second to few in the country. In a pecuniary point of view such festivals
                            could only result in benefit to our city, for if we should only attract the people from the
                            territory tributary to 
                                Indianapolis
                            , instead of allowing them to pass through here, to go to 
                                Cincinnati
                            , or other neighboring cities, as is now the case, it would be accomplishing a
                            good work.119
                  
                    
            
            The directors of the Maennerchor during the 1880's were Alexander Ernestinoff and Carl
                    Barus, men of outstanding musical reputation in their special fields. Alexander Ernestinoff, born
                    1853 in St. Petersburg, Russia, and a pupil of Anton Rubinstein, came to 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1880 from 
                        St. Louis
                     where he had directed operas, among which was the premier performance in the 
                        United States
                     of Wagner's Rienzi.
               120 He directed the
                    Maennerchor from 1880 to the close of its 1882 season. During that time its regular concerts were
                    successfully performed, and the second carnival in January, 1881, was carried out in a brilliant
                    manner. Thousands of dollars were spent on arrangements and James B. Dickson made a special trip to 
                        New York
                     to select two hundred costumes for the occasion.121 In July, 1882,
                    Ernestinoff resigned and announced he would enter an opera orchestra; but later in 1883 he became
                    director of the Lyra Society, a position he held until 1888.122
            
            Carl Barus came to 
                        Indianapolis
                     late in July or early in August, 1882, as the new director of the Maennerchor. A
                    Forty-eighter, he was born 1823 in Silesia and educated at Breslau and Berlin, where he studied
                    music with Adolph Hesse and Heinrich Richter. Upon his arrival in the 
                        United States
                     in 1849 he went first to 
                        Saginaw
                    , 
                        Michigan
                    , where he engaged in farming. Not satisfied with that, he moved to 
                        Cincinnati
                     where he gradually established a reputation as a musician. He taught, directed, and
                    performed with most of the outstanding musical groups of 
                        Cincinnati
                     and organized 
                  
                     119
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, June 5, 1880.
                  
                     120 Bellinger, "Music in 
                                Indianapolis
                            ," 355.
                  
                     121
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, January 4 and 25, 1881.
                  
                     122 Bellinger, "Music in 
                                Indianapolis
                            ," 355; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, July 13, 1882.
               
                     their first symphony orchestra. He was credited with much
                    responsibility for the phenomenal musical culture of that city. Rather early he had identified
                    himself with the work of the German singing societies and had directed many Gesangfestes of the
                    North American Saengerbund beginning in 1854. He also directed several of the festivals of the
                    Indiana Saengerbund. With this background and reputation it was hoped that Barus would be able to
                    give 
                        Indianapolis
                     a name and fame in the musical world, for local observers felt certain that the city
                    possessed ample talent and that all it needed was the proper direction.123
            
            The first season under the new director was a busy one. Regular entertainments for members included
                    four operettas, two concerts, the annual New Year's ball, the annual balmasque, and the
                    summer night's festival. In addition three public entertainments were held,
                    Haydn's The Creation, the annual grand carnival, and the opera Stradella.
               124
            
            The carnival was held February 2, 1883, at English's Opera House which was especially fitted
                    and arranged for the occasion. The theater proper was floored over level with the stage, and scenery
                    was erected to make it appear like a fairyland. Four check rooms and twenty dressing rooms were made
                    available and A.R. van Horn, a costumer from 
                        Philadelphia
                    , brought a large number of beautiful costumes for the selection of the Maennerchor
                    members. The club spent two thousand dollars for costume rental, and William E. English spent
                    another two thousand dollars on the theater. The Beissenherz band and Miller's orchestra
                    furnished music for the evening's dancing.125 The masked balls or
                    carnivals of the years from 1881 to 1884 are remembered as outstanding events of the society.126
            
            The so-called "Dutch" societies have sometimes been criticized by persons who
                    declare that these groups did very little more than drink beer and dance. The Maennerchor, by
                    performing well known and well chosen works,127 contributed 
                  
                     123 Keller, Festschrift zur Feier des Goldenen
                                Jubiläums des 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Männerchar, 33; Bellinger, "Music in 
                                Indianapolis
                            ," 354–355; William A. Fritsch, German Settlers
                                and German Settlements in Indiana (
                                Evansville
                            , 1915), 58; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, August 26, 1882.
                  
                     124
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, October 23, 1882.
                  
                     125
                            Ibid., January 20, 1883.
                  
                     126 Keller, Festschrift zur Feier des Goldenen
                                Jubiläums des 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                      Männerchor, 33.
                  
                     127
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, April 27, 1883.
               
                     much to the musical culture of the community and made such
                    criticisms unwarranted and unjust. While active members of the Maennerchor were Germans or of German
                    descent, in the 1880's there was an increasing number of associate members, people who
                    appreciated the opportunity to sing with other talented musicians and joined forces with them in the
                    performance of the best music. No English-speaking singing society of any prominence was active at
                    that time; so the Maennerchor performed a useful service.128
            
            The progress of the Maennerchor was steady under the direction of Carl Barus. In 1886 the first
                    regular concert of the season was attended by a large and enthusiastic audience. The
                    singers' voices seemed to be at their best and the orchestra was in full accord, while the
                    genial conductor appeared "like a father with a great, happy family around
                        him."129 In 1889 the society varied its activities with a fair, the
                    first one in several years.130
            
            Writers in the News have stated that the Maennerchor sang for love not for
                        money.131 Certainly no great profits at any time accrued from the concerts,
                    but neither did a deficit occur. From three concerts in the 1884–1885 season resulted a
                    net balance of only $146.132
            
            The Lyra Society, rival of the Maennerchor, had a large membership and a fine hall. In 1883 Reinhold
                    A. Miller resigned as director and Alexander Ernestinoff was secured for the position.133 The Lyra had originally been established in 1870 by dissatisfied members of the
                    Maennerchor, and amicable feelings between these two societies had never been established.134 At intervals efforts were made to encourage them to consolidate. In 1880
                    such a proposal failed because the members could not agree on a name. Evidence of bad feeling
                    between them arose again in 1882 and in 
                  
                     128 Bellinger, "Music in 
                                Indianapolis
                            ," 352–353; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, May 14 and 19, 1884.
                  
                     129
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, November 17, 1886.
                  
                     130
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, November 21, 1889.
                  
                     131
                            Ibid., May 14 and 19, 1884.
                  
                     132 Keller, Festschrift zur Feier des Goldenen
                                Jubiläums des 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Männerchor, 36.
                  
                     133 Berry R. Sulgrove, History of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 and 
                                    Marion County
                                , Indiana (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1884), 265; Bellinger, "Music in 
                                Indianapolis
                            ," 354–355; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, July 2, 1883.
                  
                     134 Bellinger, "Music in 
                                Indianapolis
                            ," 354; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, October 3, 1882.
               
                     1883.135 Nevertheless, Lyra continued to
                    prosper and in 1884 had a mixed chorus of fifty voices to assist in its winter concerts. Its program
                    of regular activities was somewhat similar to that of the Maennerchor, and in 1886 Lyra also
                    produced the popular light opera The Mikado.136
            
            Ernestinoff resigned from the Lyra directorship in 1888 and the following year organized an orchestra
                    of fifty-five musicians, some of whom had been members of the Lyra while others were amateur
                    musicians in the city. A series of concerts was planned, and the orchestra was reported to be quite
                        prosperous.137
            
            In addition to the Maennerchor and Lyra societies, a third German club, the Liederkranz, flourished
                    during the 1880's. It dedicated a new hall in 1881, and in 1885 A. H. Moorehead of 
                        Richmond
                     was named director.138 In 1884 the Harugari Maennerchor was
                    organized and presented its second concert in February, 1885, under the direction of Ernst F.
                        Knodel.139
            
            The German singing societies of Indiana had organized a Saengerbund and in 1883 held their eighth
                    Saengerfest in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Three concerts were held September 6–9 at English's Opera House
                    under the direction of Alexander Ernestinoff. The orchestra of sixty and chorus of two hundred from
                    seventeen societies were assisted by vocal soloists from 
                  Cincinnati, Chicago
               , and 
                        New York
                    . Each society performed separately, then all participated in a joint number. The united
                    singing societies of 
                        Indianapolis
                     opened the program and Governor Albert G. Porter addressed the assembly, praising the
                    Germans for their contribution to the musical culture of the state. He said that America was not
                    musical until the Germans came and since then societies for the cultivation of music and schools of
                    music had sprung up so that a national music was beginning to develop which would be characteristic
                    of our national life. The city was elaborately decorated for the event and a parade a mile long
                        
                  
                     135
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, September 2, 1880; October 3, 1882; August 30, 1883.
                  
                     136
                            Ibid., September 16, 1884; March 1, 1886.
                  
                     137 Bellinger, "Music in 
                                Indianapolis
                            ," 355; 
                                Indianapolis
                             News, December 14, 1889.
                  
                     138
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, October 27, 1880; October 8, 1881; September 7, 1885.
                  
                     139
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Evening Minute, February 23, 1885.
               
                     helped to welcome the visitors, who were entertained by a free
                    lunch at Maennerchor Hall. A deficit of twelve hundred dollars was reported but this was of small
                    importance compared to the benefits derived. A lasting impetus was given to musical culture in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , a result impossible to measure in dollars and cents.140
            
            These annual Saengerfests were excellent preparation for the May festivals held in 
                        Indianapolis
                     beginning in 1886 and continuing until 1898, with the exception of the years 1887,
                    1888, and 1893. The first festival was conceived as a means to raise money for the
                    Soldiers' and Sailors' Monument, and it was planned to make this an annual affair.
                    However, the state legislature passed a law in March, 1887, appropriating money for the Monument
                    fund; so no festival was held that year or the next. Still, the 1886 festival and similar festivals
                    in other cities had been so successful that a permanent festival association was soon formed and
                    performances were resumed in 1889.141
            
            The festival of June 1–8, 1886, was a splendid affair and something quite beyond anything
                    yet attempted in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Since it was to be a benefit for the Soldiers' and Sailors'
                    Monument, the Grand Army of the Republic was actively interested and, to heighten the enthusiasm,
                    invited General William T. Sherman to be the special guest of the city on the second day of the
                    concerts. The chorus and orchestra, directed by Carl Barus, had been augmented with professional
                    musicians from 
                        Cincinnati
                    , and the principal soloist and only paid artist of the festival was the famous Lilli
                    Lehmann, who was paid the magnificent sum of eight hundred dollars for the three evenings she
                        sang.142
            
            The new Tomlinson Hall was ready for the occasion and, though it seated eight thousand, it was
                    scarcely large enough for the throng of music lovers and society folk who attended. The opening of
                    the festival was something to remember. Fashionable carriages moved slowly up and down the streets,
                    and the street cars were crowded with the less 
                  
                     140 Stempfel, Festschrift zur Feier des Vollendung des
                                deutschen Hauses in 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 60; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, December 18, 1882; May 16, August 23 and 27, September
                            4–13, October 30, 1883.
                  
                     141 Dunn, Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , I, 533–534; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, June 1, 1886; January 8, 1889.
                  
                     142 Dunn, Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , I, 533; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, June 1 and 5, 1886.
               
                     opulent. Long before the hour of opening, the area near the
                    hall, including the stone courthouse fence and the roofs of nearby buildings, was packed with the
                    curious. Many in the large audience were formally dressed. The chief difficulty encountered by one
                    observer in the rear of the auditorium was his struggle to see around the many large
                    ladies' hats that were being worn that season. No one dared to suggest that the hats be
                    removed—the ladies might feel insulted! The audience was a fine one and pleased Miss
                    Lehmann, who thought Americans very warm and appreciative in contrast to what she had been told
                    abroad. She expressed pleasure at the amount of musical appreciation and the good manners of 
                        Indianapolis
                     citizens. She thought Americans possessed good hearts for music and were much more
                    talented than were the English.143
            
            On June 7 and 8 the American Opera Company and the Theodore Thomas orchestra gave concerts as part of
                    the festival which helped swell the monument fund. At the close the receipts totaled ten thousand
                    dollars and of this amount it was expected that the profits would be between four and five thousand
                    dollars. The chorus of 650 voices could easily have been much larger, as not all the musicians of
                    the city had exerted themselves; but much of the success achieved was due to the efforts of Carl
                    Barus and the Maennerchor.144
            
            On July 4–6, 1887, a festival was held as part of the convention of the National Music
                    Teachers' Association. The first of these concerts emphasized American composers while the
                    second was devoted to European classics. The artistry of the performances surpassed the 1886
                    festival, and the audiences were highly appreciative. The number attending increased at the second
                    and third concerts so greatly that it may be assumed that local music lovers were taking advantage
                    of the events. Sallie Bingham was the only local singer mentioned on the program. Max Leckner, local
                    music teacher, was elected president of the Association. Though the receipts were six thousand
                    dollars, the committee found that a deficit of two thousand dollars existed, and it was necessary to
                    call on the guarantors for an assessment of about 30 per cent of the amount allowed.145
            
            
               
                  143
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, June 1 and 4, 1886.
               
                  144
                        Ibid., June 5 and 8,1886; Dunn, Greater 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  , I, 533.
               
                  145
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, July 5–9, 1887.
            
            
            Early in January, 1889, the May Festival Association was formed and a board of directors elected.
                    Nearly two hundred attended the first meeting of the chorus and by April 1 the number increased to
                    over seven hundred. In February the agent of Gilmore's Band arrived to assist in
                    arrangements. Since it was the twentieth anniversary of the first of the great musical jubilees held
                    in 
                        Boston
                    , the agent hoped to arrange for a series of festivals to be held in the large cities of
                    the 
                        United States
                    . Final plans included an orchestra of musicians from the Thomas orchestra and the 
                        Boston
                     Symphony; soloists included Emma Juch of the American Opera Company,
                    Térèse Herbert-Foerster of the Metropolitan Opera Company, Margaret Reid of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Max Bendix, concertmaster, Victor Herbert, cellist of the Thomas orchestra, and Adele
                    Aus der Ohe, pianist and protégé of von Bülow and Liszt. Carl Barus
                    conducted, Clarence Forsythe, local music teacher, directed the chorus, and Barclay Walker served as
                    organist. The railroads cooperated with the festival by offering special excursion rates.
            The days of the festival, May 27–29, finally arrived, and the results were gratifying in
                    all respects to the Festival Association and the city as a whole. Margaret Reid, in her first
                    appearance before a home audience since her study abroad, received an especially warm welcome and
                    pleased her friends with the excellence of her singing. Great appreciation was shown for the music
                    performed, and the large audiences indicated the public spirit behind the project. Representative
                    people made up both the chorus and the audiences, thus indicating a universal love of music which
                    was not restricted to a select group. A rule was made and strictly followed, to close the entrances
                    and exits at eight o'clock, admitting no one during a number. This aided the success of the
                    festival and contributed to the education of other 
                        Indianapolis
                     audiences.146
            
            Two evaluations which reflected some of the enthusiasm generated by the performances of the festival
                    appeared in the News: 
                        The May Festival of five concerts has closed without a break in the line of successes. The
                            music has all been of a high order 
                        
                           146 Dunn, Greater 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        
                           , I, 533; 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     May festival programs, MS collections, Indiana Division, Indiana State
                                    Library; 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    
                                    News, January 8, 14, and 28, February 8, March 2, April 1 and 13,
                                    May 11, 16, 22, 28–31, 1889.
                     
                             and the musicians have in their respective parts been
                            fully equal to it… The public support and enthusiasm have been greater than was
                            ever before known in Indiana. The patronage has been liberal enough to enable the directors
                            to provide for the $9,000 of expenses and to carry over something to the credit
                            of the next festival. The receipts were about $9,170, of which
                            $4,633.50 has gone to satisfy the contract with Mr. Locke's Opera
                            Company… . It has paid… . the affair has had a gratifying effect in an
                            educational and social way. Its success can not be measured by this week's results.
                            It insures other festivals and musical growth… . The audience, whose taste had
                            been cultivated during the week by the excellence of the preceding programs may have
                            observed slight flaws in the performance, such as the chorus and orchestra being at variance
                            in several places in pitch and rythm [sic], but as an entirety
                            … the result of last night's work was gratifying in the extreme.147
                  
                        A new element has come into the life of 
                                Indianapolis
                             and Indiana. It has passed all doubtful or experimental stages. Its sturdy
                            existence is demonstrated; and the beneficence of it! the good it will work in the purifying
                            and elevating tone that it will communicate! the nucleus it will be, around which kindred
                            influences will rally! The city, the State, take a higher stand for this music festival.
                            Their added self-respect and pride are the sincerest thanks that they can give to the ladies
                            and gentlemen, the leader and the humblest worker who have done this thing. The fullest meed
                            of praise is theirs, and with the coming of another year a widening circle of generous
                            appreciation shall beckon them eagerly to new successes.148
                  
                    
            
            In October the chorus committee of the Festival Association met to reorganize the chorus for the next
                    May festival. The enthusiasm exhibited was a favorable indication of a good season to follow.149 Successful festivals were held almost every year from 1889 to 1898, but the
                    last one was a dismal failure. Efforts to revive them in 1899 and 1900 failed, and although
                    so-called May festivals have been held since, there has been no repetition of the grand affairs of
                    the 1880's and 1890's. In 1893 Seidl and Locke broke their contract after the
                    Association refused to meet their sudden demand for a three thousand dollar increase and for a
                    day's postponement of the opening. A consolation concert was given for the benefit of the
                    festival fund, at which the 
                  
                     147
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, May 30, 1889.
                  
                            148
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     149
                            Ibid., October 5, 1889.
               
                     leading soloists, Mme Lillian Nordica, Margaret Reid, and Sadie
                    Walker performed. This event occurred before the failure of two important 
                        Indianapolis
                     banks, the 
                        Indianapolis
                     National and the Commercial, which closed their doors July 25, 1893. But the panic did
                    not stop the festivals, which were resumed in 1894.150
            
            Probably the most famous musical stars to appear in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in the 1880's were Adelina Patti and Christine Nilsson. Adelina Patti sang at
                    English's Opera House on January 31, 1882, before a large and highly appreciative audience.
                    Schedules had become confused, and not until a late moment was it certain whether Miss Patti would
                    appear at 
                        Louisville
                     or come to 
                        Indianapolis
                    . However, the affair turned out well, with total receipts of $5,000. She
                    reciprocated the appreciation of the audience by calling the manager, William E. English, to her
                    dressing room to compliment him on the acoustics of the theater.151 In 1883
                    Christine Nilsson sang at the Grand Opera House before a capacity audience which gave the artist
                    rapt attention. She was regarded as the greatest singer ever to appear in the city, with the
                    exception of Adelina Patti.162
            
            On February 8, 1883, Ottilie Klauczek, a pianist of Austrian birth and daughter of a countess, gave a
                    concert at English's. She had formerly lived in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and had expressed a desire to return. Every seat was taken and the audience regarded
                    her as a fine artist. A month later another concert was scheduled, but it failed because of poor
                    advertising. Taking it as a personal affront, the pianist was so affected that she experienced a
                    breakdown. From City Hospital she was later removed to a mental institution. Friends stated that she
                    had always been regarded as eccentric and that her nervous and excitable temperament was unable to
                    stand the strain of overwork.153
            
            A concert by Eduard Remenyi, renowned violinist, was the first program on the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Lecture Course in 1883. In 1886 Mme Julia Rive-King played at 
                        Plymouth
                    
                    
                  
                     150 Dunn, Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                     , I, 533–534; MS Diary of Susan Stewart, Indiana Historical
                            Society Library.
                  
                     151
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, January 31, February 1, 1882; English Collection, Indiana Historical
                            Society Library.
                  
                     152
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, January 27, 1883.
                  
                     153
                            Ibid., February 8, March 19, 20, and 28, 1883.
               
                     Church for the first time in six years and received her usual
                    warm welcome.154
            
            Famous instrumental groups, both bands and orchestras, which performed in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in the 1880's were more numerous than the soloists. An English group, the
                    Albion Society, with two hundred members, gave an entertainment at Mozart Hall in 1881.155 In 1882 Leopold Damrosch's orchestra gave an all-classical concert
                    and was most warmly received by the audience. The group was regarded as inferior to the Thomas
                    orchestra, yet was spirited, intelligent, and cultivated.156 Theodore Thomas
                    brought his orchestra to 
                        Indianapolis
                     for concerts in 1883, 1885, and again in 1889. Soloists were Mme Julia Rive-King in
                    1883, Charles Turner and Emma Juch in 1885, and for the last concert, Rafael Joseffy and Victor
                    Herbert. Always considered the great musical event of the season and always well attended, the
                    orchestra received an even more enthusiastic welcome in 1889 than at its preceding concert.157
            
            Patrick S. Gilmore's band, the one with the anvils and cannon, performed in 1886 without
                    their hardware before two good audiences.158 In 1889 they came again, bringing
                    all their artillery, and gave two concerts, a matinee and an evening performance, at Tomlinson Hall,
                    for which they were paid a total of four thousand dollars. This was their jubilee anniversary. At
                    the evening concert the audience of three thousand included a representative group of 
                        Indianapolis
                     citizens besides a large number of visitors from other towns. They were enthusiastic
                    with their applause but gave honors to one of the soloists, Helen Dudley Campbell, an 
                        Indianapolis
                     girl.159 In addition to these, the Mendelssohn Quintet Club of 
                        Boston
                     gave a satisfactory concert in 1887 under the auspices of the Matinee Musicale, and the 
                        Boston
                     Symphony Orchestra played before a large and brilliant audience the same year. The
                    latter presumably was well liked because it reminded its listeners of the Thomas orchestra.160 In 1888 the 
                  
                     154
                            Ibid., November 1, 1883; March 27, 1886.
                  
                     155
                            Ibid., December 23, 1881.
                  
                     156
                            Ibid., November 24, 1882.
                  
                     157
                            Ibid., April 4, 1883; October 24, 1885; October 25, 1889.
                  
                     158
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, November 24, 1886.
                  
                     159
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, April 4, May 8 and 9, 1889.
                  
                     160
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, March 5, 1887; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, May 3, 1887.
               
                     Yale Glee Club gave a concert at 
                        Plymouth
                     Church, every number of which was applauded heartily.161
            
            This decade might be called the age of opera, since far more opera was performed than any other type
                    of music. Most popular were the light operas, especially Gilbert and Sullivan, whose works found
                    immediate acceptance in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . This was particularly true of The Mikado which was produced more
                    often than all the others. There was a Mikado craze; all sorts of merchandise—even
                    wallpaper—were named ofter the operetta.162
                    The Mikado was first produced in 
                        England
                     some time in 1885, and that September was given at English's Opera House by
                    the Grau Company to a delighted audience; the next year it was given no less than four times in the
                    city, each time well received. In addition H.M.S. Pinafore and The Pirates of
                    Penzance were given in 1880; the latter again in 1882; and Iolanthe and Patience in 1883.163 Other light operas were given at
                    intervals by traveling companies, while still others were produced by local groups.
            Grand opera was also frequently performed. At least thirty appearances were noted during the decade,
                    and this by no means represented all. None was noted in 1884 and few in 1885. During this interval
                    there seems to have been little activity on the part of the local opera company. In May, 1885, it
                    was announced that the opera would close its regular season and open a summer season at popular
                    prices, ten cents and twenty cents—admittedly an experiment.164 The
                    business recession was taking its toll of the musical world.
            Traveling companies presented practically the entire gamut of works familiar to present-day
                    audiences, with two or more performances each of Il Trovatore, The Bohemian Girl,
                    and Fra Diavolo.
               165 In 1889 a change in technique was
                    observed. The American Opera Company appearing at English's Opera House was not conducted
                    on the "star" system, but roles were assumed by artists of equal merit.166
                    
                  
                     161
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, January 3, 1888.
                  
                     162
                            Ibid., March 13, 1886.
                  
                     163
                            Ibid., February 6, May 26, 1880; January 5, 1882; January 25 and 26,
                            February 23, 1883; September 15, 1885.
                  
                     164
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Evening Minute, May 23 and 25, 1885.
                  
                     165
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Sentinel, News, 1880–1889, passim.
                  
                  
                     166
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, January 4, 1889.
               
                     Advantageous from the audience point of view, this change
                    presented some difficulty in arrangement of salaries, dressing rooms, and minor details of
                    production and direction.
            The opera then as now was fashionable. All the "best" people attended, all dressed
                    in their best. Probably many more women attended than men, particularly at matinee performances.
                    Although well patronized in the seventies, opera grew steadily from its amateur status. Local
                    productions of high quality and of ambitious proportions indicated the extent and development of
                    musical talent in the city. Still no music school or conservatory existed to act as feeder to these
                    amateur productions, for the first conservatory was founded late in 1889 by Clarence Forsythe.167 The training came from private instruction together with the experience
                    gained from singing with the choral societies. No attempts were made to organize an opera company
                    after the 1880's, and only many years later was it possible to establish a symphony
                    orchestra. Musically speaking, 1880–1890 was the golden decade for the Inland City.
            
               
                  167
                        Ibid., September 2, 1889; Frederick Doyle Kershner, Jr., "A Social
                        and Cultural History of 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1860–1914" (Ph. D. thesis, University of 
                            Wisconsin
                        , 1950), 403.
            
         
         
         
            Genealogy
            Queries
            Queries are limited to Indiana families and to fifty words, exclusive of name and address. Reply
                    directly to querist. Send queries to Miss Dorothy Riker, Indiana Historical Bureau, 
                        Indianapolis
                     4. The committee reserves the right to edit queries but cannot engage in
                    correspondence. The Genealogy Division of the Indiana State Library will do limited research on
                    Indiana families.
            
                    Want information about William M. Lacey, a circuit minister. His 2nd wife (m.
                        6–9-1861) was Mary Denton Brown (wid. of Michael Brown). Want names of descendants
                        (to whom I can write) of his 2 daus.: (1) Anzronetta Lacey m. 11–5–1868, 
                            Tippecanoe
                         Co., Ind., Orin Westfall (want data; son of Thomas Westfall); (2) Sicily Lacey m.
                        same date & place, C. Johnson. Westfalls left 
                            Tippecanoe
                         Co. after 1880. Went where?—Mrs. R. M. Robertson, 836 Shawnee Ave., 
                            Lafayette
                        , Ind.
                    Data and parents of Hannah Horn, b. 1785, Penn. or 
                            Germany
                        , & husband Thomas Tipton, b. 1785, Va.; m. 1808, Belmont Co., O. Chn.:
                        George, Jacob, Joshua, John, Ephraim, James, Mary, Thomas. Hannah & some of the chn.
                        came to 
                            Fulton
                         Co., Ind., in 1850's where Hannah Tipton d. ca. 1860.—Mrs.
                        Celia Tipton Fleming, 8539 De Soto Ave., Canoga Park, Calif.
                    Want parents and family of Eleanor Bell, b. 1794, Ky.; m. 1822, Harrison Co., Ind., Westley
                        Gaither; she d. 1855 and is buried in Old 
                            Goshen
                         Gem., Harrison Co.—Frederick P. Griffin, Corydon, Ind.
                    Want parents of Mary (Polly) Martin, b. 1833, d. 1876, and husband Lewis Dudley Owens, b. 1827,
                        d. 1893; m. 1848, 
                            Decatur
                         Co., Ind., and lived there. Also parents of Martha Jane Stillman, b. N.Y., d. ca.
                        1900, 
                            Ripley
                         Co., Ind.; m. ca. 1840, 
                            Ripley
                         Co., Lorenzo Dow Harding.—Madge B. Harding, 111 East 16th St., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Ind.
                    Want information concerning descendants of Joseph Herr, b. 2–14–1811, Md.;
                        d. 8–29–1845; wife Elizabeth. Lived near Xenia, O., ca. 1840, &
                        probably moved to Ind. shortly after. Reported to have had 2 chn. (no known
                        data).—Ben Herr, R.F.D. 1, 
                            Lebanon
                        , Ind.
                    Want ancestry of Annis Lynch who mar. Dr. John Harlan Stuart, physician,
                        10–13–1869, Henry Co., Ind. He practiced medicine in Ind. 5 yrs.; later in 
                            Minneapolis
                        , Minn. John & Annis Stuart were Quakers. Was Annis Lynch a dau. of Robert
                        Lynch of Va. & Ind.? —Elizabeth Lynch, 2867 Sunset Place, 
                            Los Angeles
                         5, Calif.
                    Parents of Andrew Pea (Pee), b. 1812 (?), Penn. Also parents, birth date & place of
                        Elizabeth M. Cobb who m. 12–18–1834, Floyd Co., Ind., Andrew Pea. Was he
                        related to Daniel, Jacob, John, & Henry Pea who settled in 
                            Knox
                         Co., Ind., 1785 ?—Miss Eunice M. Vestal, 4221 East 34th St., 
                            Indianapolis
                         18, Ind.
                    
                    Will exchange data and want more information on the following, all buried in 
                            Washington
                         Co., Ind. Catherine Blake, b. 1794; William Brewer, b. 1818, d. 1882; his wife,
                        Desire Barnard, b. 1820, d. 1906; Nicholas Naugle, Sr., b. 1766, d. 1854; his wife, Elizabeth
                        Rife, b. 1764, d. 1834; Nicholas Young, b. 1779, d. 1843; his wife, Mary (surname?), b. 1775, d.
                        1843; Edison Voyles, b. 1807, d. 1856; his wife, Barbara Ratts, b. 1810, d.
                        when?—Mrs. A. V. Motsinger, Paradise Road, CC No. 6, Aberdeen, Md.
                    Want names & addresses of descendants of these early 
                            Washington
                         Co., Ind., families. Valentine Crotts, Joab Teague, Frederick Souders, Benjamin
                        Souders (wife Nancy Teague), Solomon Kepley (wife Susan Crotts), Benjamin Franklin Souders (wife
                        Eliza A. Kepley).— Mrs. William Ray Quist, 10706 Eastborne Ave., 
                            Los Angeles
                         24, Calif.
                    Want descendants of George Becker (or sometimes Baker), b. 7–4–1868, prob.
                        Gibson Co. or Posey Co., Ind.; son of Rudolph and Ann Margaret (Ridenour) Becker. There were
                        Ridenours in 
                            Montgomery
                         Twp., Gibson Co. The Beckers were in the 1870 census of Posey Co., Smith Twp., near
                        Cynthiana, where mother d. 1873. Rudolph Becker m. (2) Jan. 1894 (place unknown) Parmelia
                        Heilman, who d. Sept. 1910, 
                            Vanderburgh
                         Co., Ind., Center Twp., McCutchanville. He m. (3) 5–28–1912,
                        Posey Co., Ind., Robb Twp., Poseyville, Mrs. Nancy Jane (Hindman) Lambert (former wife of Daniel
                        Anderson Lambert). Was Rudolph related to other Becker families of 
                            Vanderburgh
                         Co.?—Mrs. Gladys H. Schwartz, P. O. Box 209, Excelsior Springs, Mo.
                    Wish to correspond with any relatives of these Lawrence Co., Ind., families: Pennington, Henson,
                        Graybill, Eller, Stoker, John Miller (son of Henry Miller of Ashe Co., N. C. & Newton
                        Co., Mo.), and John Tirey.—Mrs. Herbert C. Fletcher, 2312 
                            Pleasanton
                        , 
                            Boise
                        , 
                            Idaho
                        .
                    Want names of the two wives of Henry Pedigo (Perigo-Perigory-Pedigrew, etc.). From 
                            France
                         to 
                            Maryland
                        . Two of the sons (by the first wife), Edward and Robert, migrated from 
                            Maryland
                         to Patrick Co., Va.; then to Barren Co., Ky. Their descendants later came to Marion
                        Co. and Boone Co., Ind.—Mrs. Harold G. Palin, 5920 Lawrence Dr., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Ind.
                    Was James Cropper who mar. Nancy Dawkins in Woodford Co., Ky., in 1799, the father of Joseph Y.
                        Cropper who mar. Rebecca (Pollard) Bird in 
                            Shelby
                         Co., Ky., in 1823, and came to 
                            Marion
                         Co., Ind., in 1833?—Mrs. Emma Hartley, 7225 
                            S. Dalton
                        , 
                            Los Angeles
                         47, Calif.
                    Want parentage of Elizabeth Ross who mar. Holliday McClure in 
                            Carlisle
                        , Pa., and who came via Holmes Co., O., to Northern Indiana after
                        1840.—Mrs. Kenneth N. Roehl, 7430 Galbraith Rd., 
                            Lexington
                        , Mich.
                    Who were parents of Elizabeth Hendrickson, b. 
                            Franklin
                         Co., Ind., and who mar. Chilon Foster on
                        3–1–1838?—Mrs. J. C. Brook, Stronghurst, Ill.
                    From what 
                            Kentucky County
                         did Isaac Costin migrate to Owen Co., Ind., in early 1800's? What were
                        names of his parents? John Trout & wife Fanny were in 
                            Greene
                         Co., Ind., before 1850. Where in 
                            Virginia
                         was each born and what was maiden name of Fanny Trout? — Mrs. L. W.
                        Stoffers, Box 725, 
                            Ontario
                        , Ore.
                    
                    Was Amos Fry of 
                            Wayne
                         Co., Ind., the father of William Fry who mar. Mary Brown in 1834?—Mrs.
                        Robert Engelhardt, 1504 Euclid Ave., 
                            Chicago
                         Heights, Ill.
                    Want birthplace of Ignatius Sollars, Sr., who came to 
                            Vermillion
                         Co., Ind., 1825, from 
                            Chillicothe
                        , O. Who was his wife? Were they the parents of: Azariah, Ignatius, William,
                        & Roland Sollars, and Susan (Sollars) Hall & Melinda (Sollars) Smith?
                        —Mrs. Louis Lafrese, 19 Randall Terrace, 
                            Middletown
                        , N.Y.
                    Who were the parents of James McDade, b. 2–18–1829, in Ind. (where?);
                        served in Civil War from 
                            Davenport
                        , 
                            Iowa
                        ; m. 6–18–1857, 
                            Warren
                         Co., 
                            Iowa
                        , to Malissa Needles.—Charles Collins, Beloit, Kans.
                    Wish to correspond with descendants of Elizabeth Hensley Ewell, b. Va.; lived 
                            Wayne
                         Co., Ky.; came to 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Ind., before 1820. Had at least one dau., Cammie Ewell, who mar. Bennie
                        Smith.—Elmer W. Nicholas, 1025 Union St., 
                            Columbus
                        , Ind.
                    Sarah ("Sally") Whitcomb, dau. of John & Lydia Whitcomb, and sis. of
                        James Whitcomb (Gov. of Ind. during 1840's). She was b.
                        11–27–1799, 
                            Rochester
                        , Vt.; m. 9–23–1819, 
                            Pleasant Ridge
                        , 
                            Hamilton
                         Co., O., James Patterson. They lived for a while in 
                            Tippecanoe
                         Co., Ind.; moved to Cass Co., Ind., where Sally d. 4–22–1871.
                        The mother, Lydia, outlived husb. John many years; she d. fall 1841 in 
                            Tippecanoe
                         Co. Want documentary proof that Sally was dau. of John Whitcomb (Rev. Sold, of 
                            Rochester
                        , Vt.) and sis. of Gov. Whitcomb; also proof of mar. to James
                        Patterson.—Will Ball, Cass Co., Ind., Historical Society.
                    Want data on Rev. Sold., Samuel Applegate, said to be bur. in Jackson Co., Ind. Was he
                        grandfather of Sarah Jane Applegate, b. 10–23–1827, Ind.; m.
                        3–27–1845, Jackson Co., Fielding Lett of Jennings Co., Ind.? Want a Rev.
                        Sold, father for Daniel Lett, Sr., died ca. 1820, Owen Co., Ky.; wife Cynthia; son Daniel Lett,
                        Jr., b. 1791, Eagle Creek, Owen Co., Ky.; d. 1837, Jennings Co., Ind.; 1st wife, Mariah Osborne,
                        d. 1823, Owen Co., Ky. Any Revolutionary Osborne line for her?—Mrs. J. Fletcher
                        Cross, 6237 N. Meridian St., 
                            Indianapolis
                         20, Ind.
                    Want death dates for Rebecca (Heizer) Smith & husb., Peter Smith. Between
                        1819–1833 they lived in 
                            Fayette
                         Co., Ind. Would like data re chn.: William, Nathan, John Edward, Andrew Jackson,
                        Martha Jane, Delilah, and Eliza. Some if not all moved to 
                            Marion
                         Co., Ind. —Thelma Murphy, 44 S. Dearborn, 
                            Indianapolis
                         1, Ind.
                    Want data re Lucinda Jane (Barnett) Woodward, b. 1822; d. 1890 near Boonville, Ind.; wife of
                        Lindsay Woodward. Want info on chn.: Cinderella, Camilla, Artice, Lawrence, Vashti, Lucinda.
                        Vashti is said to have mar, a Mr. Crawford & lived in Kans. —Thelma Murphy,
                        44 S. Dearborn, 
                            Indianapolis
                         1, Ind.
                    Want parents of Susannah Cook, b. 1808–9; d. 1882, 
                            Marion
                         Co., Ind.; m. 1–3–1828, Jefferson Co., Ind., Samuel Johnson,
                        son of Rev. sold., John M. Johnson of 
                            Marion
                         & 
                            Fulton
                         Cos., Ind. —Thelma Murphy, 44 S. Dearborn, 
                            Indianapolis
                         1, Ind.
                    
                    Want burial place of Sarah Handy, wid. of Rev. sold., Thomas Handy. She d.
                        12–6–1850, 
                            Fountain
                         Co., Ind., where lived with one of her daus., Sally (Handy) Sloan (Mrs. John H.) or
                        Julia (Handy) Welch McCombs (Mrs. Thomas).— Is there Rev. service for Thomas Murphy,
                        b. ca. 1740, Va.; mov. to Pitt Co., N. C., by 1800; d. Posey Co., Ind. —Thelma
                        Murphy, 44 S. Dearborn, 
                            Indianapolis
                         1, Ind.
                    Want place where William J. Rhinehart m. Sarah A. Key in 1848.—Mrs. J. M. Rotz, 3710
                        N. Meridian St., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Ind.
                
         
         
            Teaching Material for Indiana History Classes
            The items listed below are available through the Indiana Historical Society, 140 North Senate Avenue, 
                        Indianapolis
                    . These materials have been prepared by the Schools Committee of the Society (Dr.
                    Herbert L. Heller, DePauw University, chairman) in co-operation with the Indiana Historical Bureau.
            1. Packets of teaching materials relating to Indiana history, geography, and economy. Packets include
                    over fifty items. $1.00.
            2. Tape recordings of radio programs based on events in Indiana history. May borrow one or two for
                    two-week period. List of topics available on request. $1.00 to cover handling and
                    mailing.
            3. Sets of black and white pictures (approximately three hundred) relating to Indiana industry,
                    agriculture, scenery and history for opaque projection. May be borrowed for two-week period.
                    $1.00 per set to cover handling and mailing.
            4. Two filmstrips (fifty frames each) on Indiana in the Civil War. The set may be purchased with
                    accompanying pamphlets for $5.00.
            5. Teaching units concerning Indiana geography, history, education, government, folklore, religious
                    sects, industry, and cultural development. $.15 each.
            6. Color Kodachrome slides concerning various aspects of Hoosier life and history. Sets of 50 may be
                    borrowed for two-week period at no cost except postage refund.
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               The British Empire Before the American Revolution. Volume IX, The
                        Triumphant Empire: New Responsibilities Within the Enlarged Empire, 1763–1766.
                    By Lawrence Henry Gipson. (
                        New York
                    : Alfred A. Knopf, 1956. Pp. xliv, 345. Preface, chronology, maps and plans, index.
                    $7.50.)
            There are distinct problems in giving a fully satisfactory judgment of this ninth volume in a series
                    of eleven by Professor Gipson. It will be far easier to assess its success when, in his future
                    volumes, the author deals with the question of the estrangement of Great Britain and her North
                    American colonies. Here, Professor Gipson has purposely omitted any detailed discussion of the
                    relations between Great Britain and her older American continental colonies in these years from 1763
                    to 1766. His avowed object is to present a careful analysis of developments within the territorial
                    acquisitions gained by Great Britain as a result of the Great War for Empire, and to reserve
                    consideration of the background of the Revolutionary War for a future volume. Thus the Stamp Act and
                    the subsequent American discontent are not treated in this work. In reaction to the many historians
                    who have insisted on considering this period as merely a background to the Revolutionary War,
                    Professor Gipson contents himself with a detailed treatment of the methods used by Great Britain to
                    cope with her new territorial acquisitions.
            After rapidly surveying the framework of the Empire and the domestic political scene, Professor
                    Gipson discusses, in turn, the different areas of concern to Great Britain in these years. The
                    second chapter of the book, on the domestic political scene, is the one section which would have
                    benefited from a more detailed treatment. Space could, perhaps, have been obtained by a more
                    rigorous pruning of the fourth chapter, on the Cherokee War of 1759–1761, which follows
                    the brief chapter summarizing the evolution of the Proclamation of 1763. After a discussion of the
                    Indian uprising of 1763, Professor Gipson proceeds to the most valuable part of the
                    book—a detailed consideration of developments in the widely scattered, and recently
                    obtained, territorial possessions of Great Britain. He presents, in turn, an invaluable  discussion of political and constitutional developments in
                            
                  Nova Scotia, Canada
               , East and West 
                        Florida
                    , and the ceded West Indian islands. The author concludes the volume with an excellent
                    survey of the establishment of the political power of the East 
                        India
                     Company in 
                        India
                    .
            There can be no doubt of Professor Gipson's extensive knowledge of this period. In this, as
                    in his earlier volumes, he demonstrates repeatedly his vast knowledge of both the primary and the
                    secondary sources. His careful presentation of the many facets of British policy emphasizes the fact
                    that British imperial history in this period cannot be treated as pointing inevitably towards the
                    Revolutionary War. The work is invaluable in demonstrating the complexity of problems facing the
                    British government and the manner in which it dealt with them. Professor Gipson's sympathy
                    for the British point of view is most refreshing in dealing with this period, which so often leads
                    American historians into writing with a pronounced national bias. He reaches the conclusion that the
                    British record in this period is "far from discreditable," and, in surveying the
                    relations of Great Britain with the new acquisitions, he finds little to indicate the storm brewing
                    in the older colonies.
            The main criticisms that can be levelled at Professor Gipson's work concern its clarity. His
                    subject of political and administrative developments in widely differing areas of the globe
                    naturally presents problems of unity, which Professor Gipson in general overcomes. Yet, at times,
                    the main theme is lost in the complexity of detail. One is left with the impression that the overall
                    effect would have been enhanced, and the author's points made just as effectively, by a
                    reduction in the amount of illustrative detail. This occasional obscurity is aided by the nature of
                    Professor Gipson's style. His love for the long, multi-claused sentence slows the pace of
                    the narrative and decreases its effectiveness.
            Yet, even when these minor criticisms are taken into consideration, there remains no doubt that
                    Professor Gipson is doing an indispensable service in writing his multi-volumed survey of the
                    British Empire before the American Revolution. His incomparable knowledge of the innumerable
                    sources, and his careful standard of accuracy, make these volumes an invaluable reference work on
                    these years. The  present volume compares favorably with the
                    others of the series, and retains the excellent format, numerous maps, and fine index of the earlier
                    volumes. As he nears the completion of his Herculean task, Professor Gipson can look back with
                    satisfaction on a series of volumes distinguished for their breadth of approach and for their fine
                    scholarship. His readers can look forward with pleasure to his final volumes.
            Reginald Horsman Indiana University
            
         
         
            
               Revolution in America: Confidential Letters and Journals 1776–1784 of
                        Adjutant General Major Baurmeister of the Hessian Forces. Translated and annotated by
                    Bernhard A. Uhlendorf. (
                  New Brunswick, New Jersey
               : Rutgers University Press, 1957. Pp.
                    xiv, 640. Illustrations, maps, and index. $9.00.)
            Baurmeister's ninety-four letters and journals, dated from September 2, 1776, to April 23,
                    1784, provide an uninterrupted narrative of the American Revolution.
            Baurmeister, a shrewd observer and a professional soldier, reported to his superior, the Minister of
                    State of Hesse-Cassel, on the military and naval, social and economic aspects of the War for
                    American Independence. He was attached to Hessian headquarters and for a while to the British
                    general staff. Baurmeister was therefore in a position to report, without prejudice, most of the
                    important events of this war because he had no "patriotic ties to either side."
                    His military observations are interesting and usually reliable. He omitted none of the important
                    battles; therefore, he was able to report firsthand on the battles of 
                        Long Island
                    , 
                        Brooklyn
                    , Harlem, White Plains, Trenton, 
                        Princeton
                    , 
                        Brandywine
                    , 
                        Germantown
                     (British occupation of 
                        Philadelphia
                    ), Monmouth, Saratoga, and on many minor engagements. These reports are not only
                    impartial, but they add a quality of freshness to the issues of the time.
            When Lord Cornwallis carried the fight to the South in 1780, Baurmeister continued to keep his
                    superior in Europe informed of the outcome of each battle. Since much of his information was
                    received from deserters and refugees, Baurmeister's reports are not so authoritative. For
                    example, he often wrote "it is possible" (p. 413); it is
                    "claimed" (p.  419); and it is
                    "rumored" (p. 547). Yet the reports are surprisingly accurate.
            More than one-third of the book is devoted to the maneuverings of the British, French, Spanish, and
                    Dutch fleets. Baurmeister was quite impressed with the might of the British fleet and the action of
                    the French fleet at Yorktown.
            Disease and epidemics brought death to thousands of European soldiers and incapacitated thousands of
                    others for indefinite periods. Baurmeister wrote:
            "Unfortunately … this pernicious fever will not let up. More become ill each day,
                    and the number of those recovering is small" (p. 306).
            "The stormy and damp, misty weather [in 
                        New York
                    ], has sent many to bed with breast fever" (p. 420).
            "Bilious fever and ague are very common; the hospitals are filling up, and great numbers are
                    dying" (p. 470).
            Desertions were large on both sides. On this subject Baurmeister reported:
            "On the 11th [October, 1777] we learned from deserters that General 
                        Washington
                     was again approaching with his army to attack us" (p. 123).
            "There was no pillaging and plundering on the part of the Hessians, but it is my duty to
                    report to your Lordship that we had many deserters" (p. 185).
            The evacuation of 
                        Philadelphia
                     was the reason for these desertions from the Hessian ranks. They liked 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and many refused to leave it.
            Baurmeister, as a rule, spoke well of George Washington:
            "General 
                        Washington
                    , in camp at Valley Forge, received these courageous 
                        Quaker
                     women in the most cordial manner, kept them to dinner, and for the rest of the day they
                    were entertained by the General's wife. Through this lady's kindly intercession,
                    all Quakers were released [from prison] … . everyone is captivated by the
                    general" (pp. 167–168).
            Baurmeister, however, held Congress in contempt:
            "Congress is quite severe, but it has no power, except paper money" (p. 140).
            "Intercepted letters from Colonel Hamilton, General 
                        Washington
                    's first adjutant, prophesy that all American enterprises will come to a bad
                    end as long as Congress makes  the decisions, for they are
                    always too late and never right" (p. 393).
            Professor Uhlendorf has given to the reading public an excellent translation of
                    Baurmeister's confidential letters and journals. This work is also well annotated. This
                    publication is a real contribution to the history of the American Revolution.
            George D. Harmon Lehigh University
            
         
         
            
               Studies in Southern History. Edited by J. Carlyle Sitterson. Volume 39, The
                    James Sprunt Studies in History and Political Science. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1957. Pp. viii, 168. $2.50.)
            Six of the articles of this volume of the "James Sprunt Studies" deal with phases
                    of 
                        North Carolina
                     history, two are primarily concerned with 
                        Georgia
                    , one with the Confederacy, and the other with the cotton crisis and Anglo-American
                    diplomacy during World War I. As in most comparable collections, the component parts vary in appeal
                    to the reader; but, unlike many others, there is not a bad article in this group.
            James R. Caldwell, Jr. deals with the religious life of backcountry 
                        North Carolina
                     in the eighteenth century and delineates nicely the devoted and aggressive tactics of
                    the Baptists and Methodists so that they contrast sharply with the relatively unorganized, sporadic,
                    and ineffective efforts of the Anglicans.
            The essay on the 
                        North Carolina
                     Whigs, 1765–1775, by Charles G. Sellers, Jr., emphasizes that the Revolution
                    was the culminating episode in a long campaign of the Carolinians to manage their own affairs and
                    that in the decade under consideration the drift toward revolution was impelled mainly by local
                    events. He concludes that the "most striking feature of the whole story is the stark
                    incongruity … between the Whigs' devotion to `liberty' and their
                    coercive tactics" (p. 46).
            The story of William Blount in 
                        North Carolina
                     politics from 1781 to 1789, as related by Alice B. Keith, is marred by some bad writing
                    and interesting editorial slips, e.g., "baited breath" (p. 58). One might also
                    question whether the "variety of his work may be taken as an indication of  the breadth of his ability" (p. 48), or whether Blount really
                    was a "strong blend of the statesman and the provincial" (p. 49). In the main, the
                    author is a bit too kind to Blount.
            Carolyn Wallace's study of David L. Swain, first Whig governor of 
                        North Carolina
                    , shows clearly that the Carolina Whigs—not the Democrats—were the
                    party of change. Swain, a westerner elected governor by an eastern-controlled Assembly, generally
                    avoided national issues and neither Jackson nor Jacksonian democracy had any appeal to him. He did
                    much to vitalize the executive office, worked for a constitutional convention, served as a delegate,
                    and then moved on to the presidency of the state university.
            The article on Confederate literature and its publishers is primarily a useful cataloging of that
                    activity. Lawrence F. London concludes that while "certainly not of the best quality, the
                    total amount of publishing accomplished in the face of shortages of every kind and under the stress
                    of war is a tribute to the ingenuity and industry of the people of the South" (p. 96).
            Cornelius O. Cathey reveals that 
                        North Carolina
                     generally responded favorably to appeals during the Civil War to replace cotton and
                    tobacco with provision crops, but faulty distribution led to shortages in some areas.
            The editor's contribution on business leaders in 
                        North Carolina
                     from 1865 to 1900 should help to puncture the legend that northern men and capital were
                    primarily responsible for the post-war industrialization of the South. Most of the business leaders
                    were North Carolinians, and a number of them had been engaged in industrial activity before 1860.
                    Also, contrary to popular belief, Sitterson found that only 4.2 per cent of these business leaders
                    were in the "rags to riches" group; most were from the middle class and were not
                    self-made men.
            "The superficial issue was the method and form of federal relief; the fundamental issue,
                    however, involved the larger question of the limits of federal activity in the economic
                    field" (p. 126)—so says Arthur Link in his discussion of the cotton crisis, the
                    South, and Anglo-American diplomacy. Wilson and his followers opposed direct federal support of the
                    cotton market or the regulation of acreage, while the southern agrarians in 1914 were among the
                    prime exponents of a program of comprehensive federal aid to 
                    agriculture and labor. Federal action was a total failure. The British blockade threatened to
                    destroy the "self-recovering" market, but heavy British purchases kept the price
                    up. The crisis passed in the autumn of 1915, and with it went large scale organized anti-British
                    sentiment in the South.
            In his analysis of Hoke Smith and the New Freedom, 1913–1917, Dewey Grantham shows that
                    Smith's progressivism was limited to measures that were primarily of benefit to the South,
                    and that he "could scarcely conceive of the government as an active force in an urbanized
                    and industrialized America." Grantham thinks that Smith was a political opportunist whose
                    vanity and innate rebelliousness undermined his good judgment.
            The study of Eugene Talmadge and the New Deal by Sarah McCulloch Lemmon contains ex
                        cathedra judgments on the New Deal, but it does reveal Talmadge's
                    "duplicity" in using federal funds to balance the state budget. When his request
                    for more funds was turned down, Talmadge increased his opposition to the New Deal program and soon
                    broke entirely with 
                        Washington
                    . Perhaps, Gene's demagoguery could have been pointed up a bit more.
            As a whole this is a good volume and as such it is an appropriate tribute to Albert Ray Newsome by
                    his former students.
            Chase C. Mooney Indiana University
            
         
         
            
               Woodrow Wilson and the Balance of Power. By Edward H. Buehrig. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1955. Pp. x, 325. Index. $5.00.)
            This would be a slender volume indeed if its author had confined himself strictly to discussing
                    Woodrow Wilson and the balance of power. But Professor Buehrig has compensated for a scarcity of
                    materials bearing directly on his topic by employing freely his talent for analysis and by venturing
                    at times into peripheral matters. The result is a provocative book that will be of interest to all
                    scholars in the field of American diplomatic history.
            This book to a large extent deals with American foreign policy in relation to World War I during the
                    period when the 
                        United States
                     was a neutral. It describes the evolution of 
                    Wilson's policy from a rigid defense of neutral rights to his attempts at mediation and an
                    advocacy of a league of nations as a means to bring about a negotiated peace. Most of this is a
                    story well known to historians. But by making the most of his evidence the author has shown that
                    Wilson during the latter stages of American neutrality eventually developed an appreciation of the
                    balance of power. This is an interpretation that a few scholars have advanced in sketchy and
                    tentative form, but no one heretofore has attempted to deal with the problem as exhaustively as
                    Professor Buehrig. In fact, he goes so far as to say that "concealed in the January 22,
                    1917 address to the Senate—indeed underlying Wilson's whole policy of peace
                    without victory—was an appreciation of the balance of power point of view: namely, that
                    stability is to be found in an equilibrium of forces no less than in moral excellence" (p.
                    274). To substantiate this claim the author has to interpret the statement "There must not
                    be a balance of power, but a community of power" as an inadequate expression of what was in
                    the back of Wilson's mind. As proof of his contention Professor Buehrig points out that in
                    his "peace without victory" speech Wilson implied there should exist among major
                    antagonists a material rather than a legal equality.
            The chapter "The Submarine in German Policy" contains a strikingly lucid
                    description of why the German high command decided to stake so much on unrestricted submarine
                    warfare, and how Chancellor Bethmann-Hollweg was persuaded that even intervention by the 
                        United States
                     would not be sufficient to save 
                        England
                     from the effects of a ruthless employment of the submarine by 
                        Germany
                    . Professor Buehrig seriously doubts whether unrestricted submarine warfare could have
                    been averted. He believes: "Only if the 
                        United States
                     by drastic pressure on the British blockade, could have started a substantial flow of
                    trade with 
                        Germany
                    , would the German military and naval authorities have been disposed to neglect the
                    opportunities which they believed the submarine afforded" (p. 83).
            The author has little patience with those who argue that the munitions manufacturers were a cause of
                    American involvement in World War I. And he sees no evidence to suggest that 
                        Germany
                    's resentment was a controlling factor in her action since "an absence
                    of munitions in the American  trade with the Allies could hardly
                    have altered the chain of circumstances," especially when the submarine was aimed at the
                    whole British economy. He takes more seriously the charge that loans to the Allies contributed to
                    the entry of the 
                        United States
                     into war but counters with the argument that "the final crystallization of the
                    American policy of neutrality in the first four months of 1916 cannot reasonably be attributed to
                    anxiety over the safety of Allied loans, which had begun to be sizable only in the autumn of
                    1915" (p. 95). Another example of the excellent analytical quality of Professor
                    Buehrig's writing is his demonstration that the 
                        United States
                     could not detect bias for the Allies in its policy because economic and political
                    factors reinforced each other and could only have been separated by 
                        Germany
                    's confining her unannounced submarine attacks to armed enemy merchantmen.
            In the chapter "Defense of Principle" the difficulties of Wilson, Bryan, and
                    Lansing in arriving at a sound foreign policy are ascribed in a large measure to their living in a
                    nation unaccustomed to dealing with the problems of security. These men are depicted as too prone to
                    "judge America's political connection with the rest of the world in terms of
                    legal, moral, and philosophical ideas, universal in application" (p. 150). In the
                    author's judgment, Wilson displayed a weakness when he based his policy on sentiment and
                    represented "German autocracy as the cause for America's embroilment and democracy
                    as the guarantee of American security" (p. 150). But this analysis does not take into
                    consideration the dynamic quality of Wilson's belief in the mission of America which
                    predicated that the 
                        United States
                     should stand before the world as a champion of liberty and democratic ideals. It was
                    his devotion to the mission of America that put driving power into Wilson's policy and in
                    time gave vitality to his growing appreciation of the balance of power. The Wilson of 1916 who began
                    to define nationalism "in terms of democratic ideals, and identification of those ideals
                    with the universal interests of mankind" (p. 247) becomes more comprehensible when it is
                    recalled that this was the same man who at 
                        New Haven
                     in 1912 declared Americans to be "the trustees of all the confidence of
                    mankind."
            Despite the use of a considerable body of manuscript and secondary materials there are certain gaps
                    in Professor Buehrig's research. A notable omission is the absence  of any reference to Harley Notter's important book, The Origins of the Foreign Policy of Woodrow Wilson. Also there is no discussion
                    of the sinking of the "Laconia" which as Samuel S. Spencer, Jr. in his Decision for War has demonstrated, had considerable influence on both
                    Wilson's and the American people's thinking during the crisis of February and
                    March, 1917. But these deficiencies do not keep the book from being a significant and interesting
                    contribution.
            John Wells Davidson 
                  
                            Washington
                        , D.C.
            
         
         
            
               The Railroads of the South, 1865–1900: A Study in Finance and
                    Control. By John F. Stover. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1955. Pp. xviii, 310. Maps, bibliography, and index. $5.00.)
            Professor Stover, associate professor of history at Purdue University, has produced a study of
                    interest not only to the 
                        Lexington
                     group of railroad historians but to economic and general historians as well. The
                    central theme of his study is suggested by the subtitle, A Study in Finance and
                        Control. He traces the shift of the railroads of the South (defined here as the eight
                    Confederate states east of the 
                        Mississippi
                     plus 
                        Louisiana
                     and 
                        Kentucky
                    ) from being financed, managed, controlled, and owned chiefly by southerners in the
                    pre-Civil War period to the dominance of northern finance and control by 1900. In so doing, he also
                    gives an excellent sketch of construction of the southern network and of the combination and merger
                    movement of the period, 1865–1900.
            The introductory chapters present the background to 1865. The impact of the Civil War is described in
                    terms of attempts to fill gaps in the network, problems of equipment and maintenance, deterioration
                    in service, and military destruction. In 1865, although "the Southern railroads were in
                    ruins," the wrecks belonged to southern individuals, cities, and states. The extent to
                    which borrowed money or funded debt had been raised abroad or in the North and the extent of state
                    and local aid and assistance are portrayed in completing the background picture.
            The thirty-five year period, 1865–1900, is divided into four sub-periods. The first
                    period, 1865–1873, was marked by the physical rehabilitation of the roads, their
                    equipment and  service, and a slow rate of new construction. The
                    period was also marked by the activities of numerous carpetbaggers either taking over old lines or
                    projecting new ones. Carpetbag railroad activity was most evident in those states where construction
                    was chiefly concentrated (the two 
                        Carolinas
                    , 
                        Georgia
                    , and 
                        Alabama
                    ), but Professor Stover concludes that "there was no significant connection
                    between the presence of extraordinarily active carpetbaggers in these states and their relatively
                    rapid railroad construction. In all four of these states, with the possible exception of 
                        Alabama
                    , the railroads were built in spite of the carpetbagger rather than because of
                    him" (p.62.) This era resulted in few permanent railroad acquisitions by northerners or
                    their southern associates. With the return of political home rule, the carpetbag group lost control.
                    The results of the era, however, aggravated the effects of the depression following the Panic of
                    1873.
            The second period, 1874–1880, is described under the heading, "A Story of
                    Receivership." As a result of an increased proportion of funded debt in their capital
                    structure, less gross earnings per mile, and an average operating ratio slightly higher than the
                    national average, in addition to the aftermath of the war and reconstruction periods, the railroads
                    of the South suffered correspondingly more in the Panic of 1873 than did the northern roads.
                    Consequently, the lag in new railroad construction was especially severe in the South. "Too
                    frequently in the early 1870's northern management of southern railroads was associated
                    with uneconomical construction, unwise financing, or even outright fraud" (p. 133).
            The 1880's are characterized as a period of "Prosperity, Expansion, and
                    Consolidation." There were few receiverships or foreclosure sales in the South, although
                    dividends there lagged well behind the national average. Construction was slightly more rapid than
                    for the nation. Of the fifty-eight southern railroads, the three largest in 1890 (the 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        Nashville
                    , the 
                        Richmond
                     and 
                        Danville
                    , and the East 
                  Tennessee, Virginia
               , and 
                        Georgia
                    ), operated about ten thousand miles, over a third of the total southern mileage. This
                    extensive consolidation confirmed the shift from southern to northern financial influence and
                    control.
            The 1890's were "in many ways a combination of the two preceding decades."
                    The South again had a rate of new  rail construction slightly
                    more rapid than the national average and by 1900 had "rounded out the basic outline of its
                    ultimate railroad system." "In both reorganization and consolidation the end of
                    the century found northern money and management triumphant" (p. 274). One of the
                    interesting features of this study is the description of the variety of methods, "including
                    outright purchase, large scale new construction, and long term leases" by which working
                    financial control was achieved.
            Eight maps, well documented footnotes, and a good bibliography add to the value of this book. This
                    reviewer hopes that Professor Stover will utilize his knowledge in further studies of railroading in
                    relation to general economic development in the southern region.
            Joseph A. Batchelor Indiana University
            
         
         
            
               An Historian's World, Selections from the Correspondence of John Franklin
                        Jameson. Edited by Elizabeth Donnan and Leo Stock. (
                        Philadelphia
                    : The American Philosophical Society, 1956. Pp. xi, 382. Frontispiece, preface,
                    introduction, and indices. $6.00.)
            In the vernacular of today John Franklin Jameson might be called "Mr. History," not
                    because he wrote notable histories of many volumes, nor because he edited vast collections of source
                    materials, but because he played a part, usually an important part in almost every undertaking of
                    the historical profession. He was among a small group of historians who managed the American
                    Historical Association, manned its committees, and arranged its programs. From 1895 when he became
                    the first editor of the American Historical Review until his death in 1939,
                    Jameson was one of the foremost leaders in the founding of historical agencies, the development of
                    research facilities in history, and the collection and publication of historical sources. He was
                    most significant in helping the new scientific historians become established, adopt high standards,
                    and grow to their present number and professional status. Other historians excelled in many things,
                    but it is doubtful that any equalled him in the service he rendered to the historical profession.
            Because he was unable to go to Europe for his graduate training, he received the first Ph.D. in
                    history from Johns  Hopkins University in 1882, and remained a
                    member of its teaching staff for six additional years. While connected with Johns Hopkins he made
                    friends of an important group of future leaders of the historical profession including Charles H.
                    Haskins, Woodrow Wilson, and Frederick J. Turner. He also published Introduction to the
                        Study of Constitutional and Political History of the States (1886), and "Willem
                    Usselinx" (1887).
            For thirteen years (1888–1901), Jameson taught at Brown University and, while so engaged,
                    was chosen chairman of the Historical Manuscripts Commission of the American Historical Association
                    as well as editor of the American Historical Review. He also published Essays in
                    Constitutional History (1889), The History of Historical Writing in America
                    (1891), the "Letters" of Phineas Bond (1896), the "Letters" of
                    Stephenson Higginson (1896), a "Guide to the Items Relating to American History in the
                    Reports of the English Manuscripts Commission" (1898), and the Correspondence
                        of John C. Calhoun (1899).
            He was persuaded to accept the chairmanship of the department of history of the University of 
                        Chicago
                     in 1901, a position in which he was not completely contented. Consequently four years
                    later, when Andrew C. McLaughlin decided to return to teaching, Jameson took his place as head of
                    the Bureau of Historical Research of the Carnegie Institution of 
                        Washington
                     and again became the editor of the American Historical Review, a
                    position from which he had resigned upon going to the University of 
                        Chicago
                    . He remained head of the Bureau and editor of the Review until 1928. During these years
                    many important historical projects were completed and others advanced towards fulfillment.
            Among the significant publishing activities of this period with which Jameson was associated in one
                    way or another were The Original Narratives of Early American History (19 vols.,
                    1906–1917), of which Jameson edited two volumes and served as general editor of the
                    series; the series of Guides to the Material for American History in foreign
                    archives; Writings on American History (1904- ); and the Correspondence of Andrew Jackson (7 vols., 1926–1935), of which Jameson was
                    joint editor with John Spencer Bassett.
            A final period in Jameson's career occurred after the Carnegie Institution decided to retire
                    Jameson in 1929 when he reached seventy years of age and to reduce its expenditures  in support of history. He received, however, an offer of the chief
                    clerkship in the Manuscripts Division of the Library of Congress which he accepted in 1928. For nine
                    years he continued his historical activities, often utilizing the expert workmanship of various
                    members of the profession, his own experienced supervision, and funds from private persons, the
                    American Council of Learned Societies, or from government sources. The Dictionary of
                        American Biography (22 vols., 1929–1944), The Territorial Papers of
                        the 
                            United States
                        
                (1934- ), an extensive project of photocopying materials from European
                    archives, The Records of the 
                            Virginia
                         Company (vols. 3 and 4, 1935), are the result in some manner of
                    Jameson's leadership. Probably his greatest contribution was his tireless labor in support
                    of the National Archives, which fortunately was rewarded with success before his death.
            This volume is in a sense a memorial in recognition of his service. In addition to an excellent
                    introduction prepared by Elizabeth Donnan, it contains selected letters of Jameson arranged
                    chronologically and in periods of his career. They are amply documented and indexed. Often they
                    reveal bits of information about individuals with whom Jameson worked. Sometimes the notes contain
                    short quotations from letters which Jameson was answering. The workmanship embodied in this volume
                    seems as nearly perfect as one could wish. Two features may be queried; the lack of a bibliography
                    of Jameson's publications and the awkward and forbidding size of the work. The importance
                    of Jameson's publications and his relations with many other publications would easily have
                    justified the labor of compiling a bibliography. Nevertheless, the American Philosophical Society
                    has sponsored a worthy volume. The editors who did not live to see their work published will be
                    pleasantly recalled because of the labor they expended on this work.
            John D. Barnhart Indiana University
            
         
         
            
               The Wild Jackasses: The American Farmer in Revolt. By Dale Kramer. (
                        New York
                    : Hastings House, 1956. Pp. xi, 260. Illustrations, bibliography, and index.
                    $4.50.)
            This is another volume in the American Procession Series—a series of "Dramatic
                    non-fiction books which center around epic episodes of our history and cultural growth that have not
                         been adequately told—crucial developments that
                    set the direction of our civilization." Here the story is concerned with agrarian
                    discontent as reflected in the Granger, Farmers Alliance, Populist, Nonpartisan League, and Farmers
                    Union movements. Dale Kramer is particularly well equipped by training and experience to tell this
                    story in that he has had firsthand contact with participants in these revolts, has edited two farm
                    newspapers, and at one time served as national secretary of the Farm Holiday Association.
            The Populist Convention of 1892 provides the stage for the opening of the story. Excitement on that
                    occasion reached a high pitch as farmers, some of whom had been exhorted "to raise less
                    corn and more hell," joined joyously in song and crusade against the evils that beset them.
                    The proceedings of the convention were participated in with all the fervor that usually accompanies
                    an old-time religious revival.
            From the high drama of Populist revolt Kramer turns to trace the origin, development, and demise of
                    the other farm movements from the Grangers to the Farmers Union. "Emphasis has been
                    laid," he states, "on the stirring rise of the crusades and the accomplishments of
                    the agrarian movements; the melancholy bickerings of disintegration have mostly been
                    omitted." The economic and social conditions out of which these revolts sprang are seen to
                    vary only slightly. The farmers' problems seemed to defy solution; and each revolt failed
                    to attain its immediate objectives. In each instance, the author gives less attention to the causes
                    of discontent and the accomplishments of the revolt than he does to drawing vivid pen portraits of
                    the leaders. The reader will detect a Hollywood-like style in the buildup of such leaders as Mary
                    Ellen Lease, Ignatius Donnelly, "Sockless Jerry" Simpson, Tom Watson,
                    "Pitchfork Ben" Tillman, Arthur C. Townley, and Milo Reno. The conservative press,
                    usually identified by the author as the "gold-bug" newspapers, dubbed these
                    leaders "wild jackasses."
            The general reader will find this book to be exciting in most parts, but will not acquire a very good
                    understanding of the conditions which spawned these recurring revolts, or of the results obtained.
                    The emphasis is centered on presenting in dramatic fashion the personalities involved in these
                    movements. This is very well done, for generally they were colorful and vociferous characters.
            
            The more serious reader—particularly the historian—will regret that the author
                    did not use footnotes or include in the bibliography a listing of all the sources used in this
                    important study. The effectiveness of the narrative is impaired, too, by the inclusion of numerous
                    long (for example pp. 38–45) quotations. There is considerable evidence, also, that the
                    book was not proofread carefully.
            The author has a definite flair for dramatic storytelling and he has produced a readable study. It is
                    gratifying to note how many of the reforms proposed in these periods of agrarian revolt have later
                    come to be parts of our way of life. After reading this volume one will agree with the author that
                    "the hoofprints of the wild jackasses are on our democracy, and its configuration is the
                    better for them."
            Cornelius O. Cathey University of 
                            North Carolina
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               History of St. Meinrad Archabbey. By Albert Kleber, O.S.B. (St. Meinrad,
                    Indiana: Grail Publications, 1954. Pp. v, 540. Illustrations and index. $7.50.)
            In the Middle Ages in Western Europe Benedictine monks performed a valuable service for posterity by
                    chronicling the histories of their establishments. Because of their labors, later historians were
                    enabled to know much about the times that might otherwise have been lost. Now Father Albert Kleber
                    follows in the venerable footsteps of many a son of St. Benedict in giving us a book about
                    Indiana's Archabbey of St. Meinrad. It is not—let it be recorded—a
                    work in the modern tradition of history writing. Father Kleber, like his scholarly predecessors,
                    sees history as the working out on this earth of God's 
                        Providence
                    . But while the secular reader may not place the same interpretation on events as the
                    Benedictine priest, he can, nevertheless, profit by studying about them. Father
                    Kleber—again like the medieval annalist—has gone far beyond the cloistered
                    walls of St. Meinrad. This book deals with early Indiana history, with the Catholic Indian missions,
                    and with the foundation of various other Benedictine abbeys and educational institutions, as well as
                    happenings within the monastery itself.
            It was in February of 1853 that two priests from Einsiedeln in 
                        Switzerland
                     arrived in Southern Indiana to found  a mission
                    among the European Catholic settlers, mostly German, in that area. The first years of St. Meinrad
                    were filled with difficulties, privation, and suffering. The monks were beset with malaria and
                    cholera attacks. In their first home, a wooden shack, they were much oppressed by the summer heat,
                    the more so since they had come from a land of more temperate climate than Indiana. With no screens
                    on the windows, they were forced to choose between the heat and the mosquitoes. Financial troubles
                    were endemic, and at one point the mother monastery seriously considered closing the mission. But
                    the spirit of St. Benedict prevailed, and by the end of the Civil War the monastery was on firm
                    footing. In 1871 St. Meinrad attained its independence of Einsiedeln and became an abbey.
            The first abbot, Martin Marty, showed great interest in Indian missions, especially among the Sioux.
                    Father Kleber has recorded the labors of the priests of St. Meinrad in the area of the Dakotas, and
                    he shows how Abbot Martin was instrumental in persuading Sitting Bull in 1881 to return from 
                        Canada
                     after that Indian chief's self exile. At the same time, St. Meinrad furnished
                    priests and built churches for many communities in 
                        Kentucky
                     and Southern Indiana, the most northerly being as far away as 
                        Terre Haute
                     and 
                        Lafayette
                    . From the beginning there was a college for the training of young men for the
                    priesthood, both secular and regular. There is an interesting account of life in 
                        Madison
                     before the Civil War, when it was Indiana's second largest city.
                    Today's residents of 
                        Perry County
                     might be interested to know that that area was considered so primitive in the
                    1850's that the Bishop of 
                        Vincennes
                     refused for ten years to visit it for Confirmation.
            In October of 1953 St. Meinrad became an archabbey. It was completely self-sufficient, both
                    economically and as an educational institution. It had daughter abbeys throughout the Middle West.
                    There was a fine press which had already turned out a respectable list of publications. Above all,
                    for the lay historian, the archabbey had participated in and had helped promote the growth of the
                    state of Indiana. The priests and brothers of St. Meinrad could indeed look back on a remarkable
                    century of development.
            Robert E. Quirk Indiana University
            
         
         
         
            
               A History of American Magazines. Volume IV, 1885–1905. By Frank Luther Mott. (
                        Cambridge
                    , Mass.: 
                        Harvard
                     University Press, 1957. Pp. xvii, 858. Illustrations and index. $12.50.)
            In his brief preface Professor Mott emphasizes that he has merely attempted to discuss "the
                    more important periodicals in the various categories" for the two decades,
                    1885–1905. Early chapters offer an overall view of American magazines in this period,
                    along with chapters on circulation and advertising, editors and contributors, monthlies, weeklies,
                    quarterlies, as well as local and regional magazines.
            There are more than a dozen chapters about magazines ranging from those related to the graphic arts,
                    politics and economics, foreign affairs, education, religion and philosophy, to others concerning
                    agriculture, science and medicine, sports and recreation, activities of women, thence to humor and
                    hobbies. About four hundred well-packed pages complete this portion of the volume, a portion longer
                    than numerous published books.
            But Professor Mott is only half finished when these chapters are concluded. The remaining
                    thirty-four—the "Supplement"—include separate sketches of an
                    equal number of important magazines which flourished, 1885–1905. Then, for good measure,
                    there is a sixty-eight page index and dozens of interesting pictures on unnumbered pages.
            This comprehensive and invaluable history is written by one who can see and describe both the forest
                    and the individual trees therein. Moreover, the general development of magazines is woven into basic
                    movements and attitudes of American history. He portrays an understanding of the general impact of
                    technology, urbanization, rural free delivery, lower postage rates, industrialization and mounting
                    wealth, world trade and imperialism, expanding public education, the growth of advertising, the
                    passing of "personal" journalism, the progress of the West and the South, the
                    changing status of women, increased leisure, and other changes on magazines and American life
                    generally.
            Possibly magazines reached the peak of their influence during the twenty years, 1885–1905.
                    The mobility of American life which came with the automobile had not yet arrived and competition
                    with television, radio, and films was in the future. Moreover, though university extension and adult
                    education  "movements" had been born, their
                    mushrooming, as well as that of the trade associations, was also principally in the future. Even the
                    paperbacks, at least as they are now known, were no threat. The newspapers, especially the Sunday
                    editions, were the principal rival of the magazines. In fact, the actual difference between some
                    Sunday newspapers and some magazines was about equal to that almost imperceptible difference between
                    contemporary versions of 
                        Cleveland
                     Democracy and Harrison Republicanism!
            Professor Mott writes with wit and humor. Whether the quotation from Herbert B. Adams terming infant
                    university extension " `the Salvation Army of education' " (p. 263)
                    represents perception, wit, or bias is one on which this reviewer prefers to plead the Fifth
                    Amendment. There is a wholesome-ness about the manner in which Mott tells his story, acting like a
                    good umpire who calls things as he sees them without waiting for the echo from the crowd.
                    Incidentally, there may be much significance in the concluding part of the opening paragraph which
                    states that "there was no time in those twenty years [1885–1905] when the cry of
                    protest was not almost as loud as the shout of success."
            In a work on such a grand scale there are sins of omission and commission, and a few other kinds as
                    well. The use of numerous quotations without traceable citations is unfortunate and disturbing, but
                    there is so much useful information in this huge volume that it would be distasteful to pull Old
                    Betsy from the mantle and shoot at miscellaneous targets. Presumably budding journalists and young
                    scholars can now win some of their spurs by proving Professor Mott to be fallible, but, if so, they
                    are likely to be much indebted to him and to add a bit to his stature as a historian of American
                    magazines.
            Donald F. Carmony Indiana University
            
         
         
            
               The New-York Historical Society's Dictionary of Artists in America,
                        1564–1860. By George C. Groce and David H. Wallace. (
                        New Haven
                    : Yale University Press, 1957. Pp. xxvii, 759. Key of sources. $15.00.)
            This impressive addition to existing biographical information about American artists makes available
                    to historians, research scholars, and collectors a mine of information  not hitherto available. As its title makes clear, it includes artists
                    who were active in this country from the first years of colonization to the Civil War.
            The scope of the work is astounding. Between ten and eleven thousand names are included, together
                    with documental biographical information, and the word "artist" is used to
                    designate painters (ranging from sign and panorama painters to portraitists), engravers,
                    lithographers, draftsmen, silhouette-cutters, wax modelers, woodcarvers, cameo-cutters, medalists,
                    and sculptors.
            Many historians who are active in the field of American art have been aware of the slow and laborious
                    work that has gone into the preparation of this book for the past two decades, from the time of its
                    first inception as a project of the 
                        New Jersey
                     Historical Research Survey of the Works Progress Administration, through the period
                    when it had the assistance of the 
                        New York
                     Art Project and Historical Records Survey, to the time when it was taken over by the
                    New-York Historical Society. During those years, George C. Groce was the tireless guiding spirit. In
                    the final stages, Charles E. Baker and David H. Wallace shared with Dr. Groce the work of
                    compilation and editing.
            But this does not mean that these three men have done it alone. Numerous people throughout the
                    country, some connected with museums, libraries or historical societies, others free-lance
                    historians, have contributed what they could. The acknowledgements in the foreword fill seven pages,
                    citing individuals and institutions from the Atlantic to the Pacific. In itself, this list of
                    contributors serves as a "who's who" of men and women who have taken a
                    real interest in the roots of American culture—so far as the arts are
                    concerned—not only in ferreting out facts about our early limners and craftsmen, but in
                    their willingness to share their findings with others.
            As one leafs through the book, one recognizes here and there some well-known names, but most of the
                    entries are unfamiliar. Thousands of artists who, with the passing of time, have slipped into
                    obscurity, are now a part of recorded history; and the biographical notes which follow their names
                    have been so carefully screened and documented by the editors that the reader feels no hesitancy in
                    accepting the data as valid.
            
            To the body of the work the authors have appended a "Key of Sources" which is in
                    all probability the most complete bibliography of books, journals, and catalogs on American art yet
                    published—a very useful tool in itself.
            It is difficult to say who will find the volume most helpful: research scholars, collectors, or
                    owners of family heirlooms. Obviously, they will all find it of value; and it will be a surprise
                    (and a disappointment) to this reviewer if the book does not soon appear on thousands of
                    bookshelves, private and public, throughout the land.
            Wilbur D. Peat John Herron Art Museum, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               Negro Folktales in 
                            Michigan
                        . Collected and edited by Richard M. Dorson. (
                        Cambridge
                    : 
                        Harvard
                     University Press, 1956. Pp. xiv, 247. Illustrations, bibliography, and index.
                    $4.75.)
            From forty-three storytellers and twenty-six additional informants in six counties of central and
                    southern 
                        Michigan
                    , Professor Dorson in 1952 made this vigorous, salty field-collection of adult material.
                    The general term "tale" is used somewhat loosely to cover 165 stories grouped
                    under eleven type-headings.
            Two introductory chapters deal with "The Communities and Storytellers" and
                    "The Art of Negro Storytelling." The first chapter possibly shows an error in
                    emphasis: except for James D. Suggs, the five people who contribute two-thirds of all the stories
                    are given three lines each, whereas some minor contributors have six or seven lines of biography.
                    Furthermore, the rascally William Brown Lee, who enjoys the distinction of having his photograph on
                    the dust-jacket, actually contributed but one tale, whereas James D. Suggs (equally photogenic)
                    supplied fifty-nine (or 35 per cent of the total). Finally, although four of the five most important
                    contributors were born in 
                        Mississippi
                    , Suggs also lived in thirty-eight other states while pursuing a score of different
                    occupations, three of which involved travel—work on a boat, as a minstrel, as a
                    professional ball player. While it is true that the Deep South tended to be the natal region of the
                    most responsive informants, other factors — such as age, ruralism, leisure,
                    travel—were not controlled. John Blackamore, highly praised for the quality of his
                    1000-word  stories, derived from the Ozarks—
                        Arkansas
                     and 
                        Missouri
                    . Although described as "my second best," Blackamore has only ten
                    stories included.
            Editing by initial selection explains the vitality and appeal of the majority of the stories. As
                    reported in "Bibliography and Notes," frequently many different informants told
                    their particular version of a tale. By choosing the best variant among many, the
                    collector had no temptation to bowdlerize or otherwise to edit away from the original
                        purity. As mentioned in the text, Blackamore dictated for seven or eight hours at a sitting
                    and Suggs supplied a total of nearly two hundred stories; obviously only the best stories from even
                    these master tellers survived the scrutiny of the meticulous editor.
            Lively language includes such samples: the cow "could kick the sweetening out of a
                    gingersnap"; the turkey gobbler "strut walking"; the weather
                    "going to fair up"; the speaker who must "buck prick my ears to get every
                    word"; the man who will "steal his own hat off his hoe to keep in
                    practice."
            A vigorous attack on Joel Chandler Harris (p. 131) has caused the reviewer to examine with extra care
                    the thesis which Professor Dorson states on page 187. Since Harris was not concerned with being a
                    folklore scholar, even though he earned the highest praise from the folklorists of his time, the
                    attack on his animal stories written in dialect is unduly severe. In the pre-tape-recording,
                    pre-grants-for-research days, Harris performed the arduous task of recording with verbal symbols a
                    distinctive type of speech for his time and area. Scholars have long utilized his excellent
                    contribution to original language. (True, to facilitate reading, periodically since his day his
                    stories have been rewritten to minimize or to remove the dialect.)
            Examination of Negro lore from other countries in six comparatively recent published collections
                    (Mary Gould Davis, Harold Courlander, Philip Sherlock) reveals that the preponderant emphasis is on
                    animal tales. Is it not possible that antipathy toward the animal tale as an important type among
                    Negroes inadvertently caused Professor Dorson to discourage the reporting of animal stories?
            On page 187 this interesting thesis is given: "
                        United States
                     Negro tales form a distinctive repertoire, separate from the narratives of West Africa,
                    the West Indies, Europe, the British Isles, and white America. Southern Negroes  have drawn upon all these lores, and added materials from their own
                    environment and experience to produce a richly diversified and culturally independent folk
                    tradition."
            This thesis wisely takes cognizance of the commonly held viewpoint that American Indians and American
                    Negroes have interchange of folk materials, especially stories. But it ignores similar interchange
                    of material with other peoples. The monumental research on folk motifs indicates that a
                    comparatively small number of patterns are used in forming the folktales of the world. For instance,
                    the sticky effigy (as found in "The Tar Baby") has been identified in no less than
                    three hundred world tales. The scholarly thoroughness with which Professor Dorson has indicated
                    parallels between his collection and the work of other researchers would, it seems to this reviewer,
                    discourage him from describing localization of borrowings (by means of small changes in place,
                    character, custom, language) as "culturally independent folk tradition."
            Elizabeth Pilant Ball State Teachers College
            
         
         
            
               Six Wings: Men of Science in the Renaissance. By George Sarton. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1957. Pp. xiv, 318. Illustrations, appendix, notes, and
                    index. $6.75.)
            It is fortunate that the late George Sarton, who spent most of his life in the study of ancient and
                    medieval science, should extend the area of study to include the period of the Renaissance. This
                    book is all the more remarkable since it was written by one who in 1929 felt that "from the
                    scientific point of view, the Renaissance was not a renaissance" and who
                    wrote of the Renaissance as a period of "instinctive resistance to any kind of scientific
                    enlightment" (J. W. Thompson, et al., The Civilization of the
                    Renaissance, pp. 75, 93).
            The title of this work, originally delivered as the Patten Lectures at Indiana University in 1955, is
                    derived from the six wings of the seraphim (Isaiah 6:2) and the six wings, or chapters, of the
                    famous astronomical tables compiled by Immanuel Bonfils of Tarascon in the middle of the fourteenth
                    century. The six chapters of Sarton's work are: The Frame of the Renaissance; Exploration
                    and Education; Mathematics and Astronomy; Physics, Chemistry, Technology;  Natural History; Anatomy and Medicine; Leonardo da Vinci: Art and
                    Science. In this book the word Renaissance, "a kind of weasel," refers to the
                    period 1450 to about 1600; i.e., from the Western discovery of printing to the death of Giordano
                    Bruno.
            Since the whole of science during this century and a half is a subject of tremendous magnitude, the
                    author has endeavored to sketch the contributions of some thirty men of science, with the hope that
                    by knowing these well one could "imagine all the others." His selection, while
                    somewhat artificial, succeeds well in showing the gigantic and revolutionary novelties of
                    Renaissance science. One can "hardly speak of a rebirth; it was a real birth, a new
                    beginning."
            Dr. Sarton always considered himself "a man deeply interested in all the humanities of
                    science, and above all, in the personalities of scientific investigators" (p. vii). This
                    trait is well displayed in the present work. Biographical facts, while necessarily limited, are
                    sufficiently detailed to relate the complex and elusive personalities of the men of science to the
                    exciting and troubled period of the Renaissance. Some thirty authentic portraits by contemporary
                    artists contribute to the delineation of these scientific personalities.
            The international character of the scientific discoveries of the period is clearly demonstrated as
                    well as the relationship of Renaissance science to that of the preceding periods. Also amply brought
                    out is the dualism of the period. The Renaissance was an age of scientific fact and superstition,
                    the rediscovery of classical knowledge and the unveiling of new facts, the use of Latin and the
                    vernacular, the moderns vs. the ancients, astronomy and astrology, chemistry and alchemy, truth and
                    nonsense, correct ideas and fantasies, and the genius and the charlatan. The Renaissance was a
                    golden age of letters and arts, but it was also an age of intolerance and cruelty.
            An appendix on Leonardo Chronology, seventy pages of notes, and an index complete the work. Professor
                    Sarton was prevented by his death on March 22, 1956, from reading the proof and preparing the index.
                    Had he lived the latter undoubtedly would have been more adequate and complete and the few errors in
                    dates corrected: Ficino died in 1499 not 1497 (p. 101); Constantinople fell in 1453 not 1543 (p.
                    107); and the Italian text of Dioscorides was first published 
                    in 1544 not 1944 (p. 285). One shortcoming, if it may be called so in a survey of this type, is the
                    relatively little attention given to the role of philosophy in the scientific thought of the period.
                    Aristotelianism, Platonism, and Pythagoreanism were all important in the early development of modern
                    science.
            Karl H. Dannenfeldt 
                  
                            Arizona
                         State College, Tempe
            
         
         
            
               Man on His Past: The Study of the History of Historical Scholarship. By Herbert
                    Butterfield. (
                        Cambridge
                    : 
                        Cambridge
                     University Press, 1955. Pp. xvii, 238. Appendices and index. $4.50.)
            Books about history writers can be of very different kinds. There is, for example, the dry, dreary
                    list of historical authors, with summaries of their work, which is the bane of the graduate student
                    getting ready for his general examinations. At the other end of the scale there can be penetrating
                    and detailed studies of individual historians and the ways their minds work. Professor
                    Butterfield's work belongs to the latter category. It is an extended version of a series of
                    six lectures given at Queen's University, Belfast, in 1954 and later broadcast on the
                    B.B.C.'s Third Program.
            The fact that this could be broadcast over a national radio program—even the Third
                    Program—is a striking commentary on the difference between British and American ideas of
                    what listeners are entitled to hear. It is almost inconceivable that anything like this series of
                    talks—which probably not one person in ten thousand would understand, at least in our
                    country—could be broadcast in the 
                        United States
                    , even over a radio station belonging to a university, to say nothing of a nationwide
                    hook-up.
            Professor Butterfield's book is not for the newcomer to the study of history. The reader
                    must be familiar with the course and some of the main events of European history, and must have read
                    some of the great historians—at least Ranke and Acton, with whom the author deals most
                    extensively. The person thus prepared will find in Professor Butterfield's discussions
                    ample material for reflection, and will probably be so impressed by the keen analyses and criticisms
                    that he will get out his Ranke and Acton again and refresh his acquaintance.
            No single limited theme ties the six lectures together. In general, though the author dips into
                    historiography as far  back as the sixteenth century, they are
                    concerned with the great century in which the modern historical method was
                    established—between the latter half of the eighteenth century and the latter half of the
                    nineteenth. "It is not at all my object, now," says Professor Butterfield,
                    "to insist that we should make an attempt to bring our useless predecessors back to life; I
                    wish rather to see whether some advantage cannot be achieved—some fertile interaction
                    produced, perhaps — by a more disrespectful treatment of their remains. Their books are
                    to be handled rather in the way that the economic historian might handle the stale records of a
                    defunct business house: so that we may learn whether there is not a history to be wrung out of them
                    totally unlike anything that the writers of them ever had in mind."
            Professor Butterfield's treatment of the past authors is by no means so
                    "disrespectful" as this quotation would indicate. He tries to see, for the most
                    part sympathetically, what various historians had in mind when they approached their tasks; and he
                    is generous in indicating what he thinks they achieved.
            The first lectures, on "The History of Historiography," describe the attempts of
                    eighteenth-century writers to produce a critical and analytical body of general history and to look
                    at historiography itself as an historical phenomenon and the historian as a product and symbol of
                    his time. Professor Butterfield thereupon defines the subject matter and scope of analytical history
                    of historiography and points out the contributions made by the nineteenth century to the development
                    of a scientific method in history writing. Then he discusses the "more general
                    significance" of a study of historiography, and remarks: "The problems of
                    historiography are at certain points closely connected with the problems of life. They touch the
                    question of the way in which human beings are to take their vicissitudes on the earth—the
                    way in which nations are to reflect on their corporate experience …. The framework which
                    people give to the their general history—the notion they have of man in time and the
                    processes of time— may do much to determine the rest their outlook."
            The second chapter deals with "The Rise of the German Historical School" in the
                    eighteenth century; the third with "Lord Acton and the Nineteenth-Century Historical
                    Movement," and the fourth with "Ranke and the Conception of "General
                    History.'" The fifth chapter is a fascinating case-study  in the vagaries of historians in dealing with a specific problem, and a
                    rather merciless analysis of the way some of them went astray for years by using less instead of
                    more important evidence. It is entitled: "The Reconstruction of an Historical Episode: The
                    history of the enquiry into the origins of the Seven Years War." The sixth and last chapter
                    is another case-study of the vicissitudes in the treatment of a particular historical episode; but
                    this time the discussion deals not only with the episode itself, the Massacre of 
                        St. Bartholomew
                    , and with the ways in which its mysteries have been tackled by various historians and
                    schools of interpretation, but also with what Butterfield considers the failure of Acton, in his
                    writings on the subject, to give adequate weight to evidence contradicting his views.
            Some college teachers may be tempted to use Man on His Past as a sort of pons asinorum for graduate students specializing in European history. If one can
                    understand this book and discuss it intelligently, it may safely be assumed that he has done some
                    reading in the field, and is able to reflect maturely upon what he has read.
            C. Leonard Lundin 
                  
                            Helsinki
                        , 
                            Finland
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Finland
                         in the Second World War. By C. Leonard Lundin. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1957. Pp. ix, 303. Map, bibliography, notes, and index.
                    $5.00.)
            In the welter of writing about World War II there is relatively little in English about its
                    northernmost phases. Professor Lundin's welcome book attempts not to provide a definitive
                    history of these phases, but by making available additional materials to call attention to
                    "certain problems, particularly in the fields of politics and international
                    relations" (p. 7) which previous books in English leave unmentioned or unsettled. He has
                    utilized many memoirs, chiefly in Finnish, Swedish, and German. Of "the writers who
                    enlighten or mislead us" (chap. 2) he finds especially important among Finns Marshal
                    Mannerheim, the Social Democratic leader Tanner, two leaders of the Swedish minority in 
                        Finland
                    — Baron von Born and Carl Frietsch—and Olavi Paavolainen, and
                    among Germans their ambassador to 
                        Finland
                     von Blücher and Generals Erfurth, Rendulic, and Hölter. Little
                    from government archives is available.
            
            As background material the ambitions of Finnish nationalists previous to 1939 are presented. The
                    anti-Soviet Lapua movement threatening to set up a Fascist dictatorship and the Suur-Suomi (Greater 
                        Finland
                    ) agitation looking toward the inclusion of Karelians, Estonians, and others under
                    Finnish rule were only outstanding examples of agitation which made 
                        Finland
                     seem to the Russian bear a "rather gruff little lamb" (chap. 3). Such
                    movements had, however, subsided by 1939, and Lundin believes that in spite of mistakes made by the
                    Finnish government in its dealings with the U.S.S.R., there was no real threat from 
                        Finland
                     which could have justified the Soviet attack.
            In the Winter War (December 1939 to March 1940) 
                        Finland
                     fought heroically, but was forced to give up by her shortage of manpower and the
                    uncertainty of promised help from 
                        England
                     and 
                        France
                    . The territorial cessions which the U.S.S.R. exacted from the Finns and their fear that
                    they might be brought completely under Soviet control led them to look to 
                        Germany
                     for help. Even before the German attack on Russia in June 1941, Finnish reservists were
                    mobilized along the Russian frontier, and the Finns, "reluctant or eager" (p.
                    113), became "brothers-in-arms," or rather "stepbrothers-in
                    arms" (p. 145) of the Germans after the attack.
            Memoirs of the Finnish and German leaders show sharp disagreement between the
                    "stepbrothers-in-arms" from the very beginning of the Continuation War
                    (1941–1944), especially as the Finns refused to make the attacks on Leningrad in the
                    south and the Murmansk Railroad in the north which the Germans urged. As the tide of battle
                    gradually turned against 
                  Germany, Finland
                increasingly resisted German demands for continued co-operation,
                    and by September, 1944, had "floundered" out of the war and was compelled once
                    again to accept severe terms imposed by the U.S.S.R. But even yet the tortuous road was not ended.
                    It was not until April, 1945, that Hitler's warriors were completely expelled from the
                    Lapland region, where on their retreat they carried out extensive devastation.
            All of these Finnish misfortunes Professor Lundin recounts from the standpoints of both Finnish and
                    German participants and observers, frequently leaving widely divergent interpretations unreconciled,
                    the divergencies being  not merely between Finnish and German
                    writers, but also between Finns themselves and Germans themselves. His attempt at meticulous
                    accuracy appears successful, except when he makes Stalin prime minister a year and a half too soon
                    (p. 53). In attempting to be meticulously fair he hesitates to pass judgment on the
                    "Mannerheim Legend" as perpetuated in the Marshal's memoirs and on most
                    questions of right and wrong, but against Nazi 
                        Germany
                     he does not hesitate to use such strong, though doubtless justified, language as
                    "the madmen in the Wilhelmstrasse" and the "monstrous regime" in
                    Berlin (pp. 49, 256). The book has no illustrations, and the one small closely packed map is
                    inadequate.
            The author occasionally allows himself a suggestive obiter dictum, such as
                    "Romanticism, unhampered by cold reality, can be a blessing for the arts, but it is almost
                    always disastrous in politics" (p. 118), that "once a war has begun and military
                    victory seems possible, even a nation which at the outset has regarded itself as fighting a
                    defensive war … wishes to impose a peace which will give it advantages not previously
                    enjoyed" (p. 136), and that "the corrosion of free institutions … often
                    takes place in the guise of intemperate and violent anti-Communism" (p. 256).
            Professor Lundin finds a happy ending to the tale of 
                        Finland
                    's unhappy years. Unlike many countries to her south, 
                        Finland
                     has not fallen entirely under Soviet control, the U.S.S.R. having learned that she
                    "is poor material for a satellite state" (p. 252). With the decline of both the
                    Rightist and Leftist groups which had been influential before 1939, he believes that Finnish
                    democracy has "emerged from the war stronger than it had ever been," and that
                    Finnish achievements in housing and social services since 1944 have been "amazing"
                    (pp. 256, 257).
            George B. Manhart DePauw University
            
         
         
            
               The Office of Governor in the 
                            United States
                        . By Coleman B. Ransone, Jr. (University, 
                        Alabama
                    : University of 
                        Alabama
                     Press, 1956. Pp. x, 416. Charts, tables, and index. $6.00.)
            Building on an earlier book about the office of governor in the South and traveling to twenty-five
                    states for observations  and interviews, the author has written
                    the "first descriptive and analytical study of the gubernatorial office on a nation-wide
                    basis." As a political scientist, Mr. Ransone is interested in the current status of the
                    governor rather than in the role of that official throughout American history. His research is
                    translated into an analysis of statistical materials, and on that basis he recommends improvements
                    in the executive branch of state government.
            One section describes "gubernatorial politics." The elections of 1930 to 1950 are
                    consulted to discover patterns of party politics, especially as they affect the governors. The Union
                    is divided into three categories: fourteen one-party states (all southern except two); twenty
                    "normally" Democratic or Republican states; and fourteen
                    "two-party" states (including Indiana, though the author did not travel to
                    Hoos-ierdom). In most states, consequently, the nominating process is more significant than the
                    election. Factionalism within parties is a filter through which an aspirant to the governorship must
                    pass. Not only must he campaign within this environment, but, if he is elected, he must somehow
                    maintain a working coalition of factions in order to be effective.
            Another section discusses the "executive function." An important ingredient in a
                    mass of responsibilities is the formation of policy, hampered by the political and constitutional
                    position of the average governor. In the absence of a genuine two-party situation, according to Mr.
                    Ransone, legislative-executive relations are frequently unsatisfactory. Furthermore, in devising a
                    budget, the key to any program, the governor is severely handicapped by constitutional provisions.
                    Closely associated with policy, management is a major duty and yet productive of gubernatorial
                    headaches. More often than not, the governor is simply the "first among equals,"
                    since the heads of departments and agencies are themselves usually elected, independent officers.
                    Thus the problem is persuasion as well as administration. The author would repose more power in the
                    governor's hands so as to achieve unified, efficient government. Naturally the adoption of
                    this proposal is not imminent, as he well knows, and he would accomplish a good deal through
                    remodeling the governor's staff organization. His discussion of this aspect is interesting
                    and valuable. Finally, the governor must devote much energy to public relations. In order to
                    eliminate excessive  demands upon the chief executive's
                    time, delegation of many of these tasks to the staff is urged.
            The work, as a whole, would have been better if the author had combined some history with his
                    analytical description. Selecting the method that he did, he can only assert, without demonstration,
                    that variations from state to state are explainable in terms of the "ecology" of
                    local conditions. Should objections on this ground be generously repressed, it is difficult to
                    approve the paucity of annotations. Lacking adequate footnotes, the book should certainly have
                    contained a bibliography. Readers tolerant of these faults will protest the fat of repetitious words
                    surrounding the muscle of ideas, convincing as they may be.
            Maurice G. Baxter Indiana University
            
         
         
            
               National Party Platforms, 1840–1956. Compiled by Kirk H. Porter and
                    Donald Bruce Johnson. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1956. Pp. xi, 573. $10.00.)
            This needed volume in many respects is well executed, but on the whole is deficient as a scholarly
                    publication. Here are the texts of major party platforms from 1840 through 1956 and likewise for a
                    significant number of lesser parties. Brief editorial notes are given for each presidential campaign
                    and the unabridged platforms are allowed to speak for themselves. The format—two columns
                    on large pages— makes the platforms readable and a concise table of contents makes them
                    easy to locate. Much research was obviously required to obtain and edit these national platforms.
            But there is a debit side of the ledger. The dates on which the platforms were adopted are not
                    indicated, nor the places where they were adopted. This is most unfortunate. Since the platforms in
                    particular campaigns are much influenced in their framing by whether they precede or follow rival
                    platforms, chronology is important and the accidents of location are also significant.
            Far worse than this, however, citations to the sources are lacking. In the preface the editors state
                    that varied sources have been used and "that sometimes there is variation in copies of a
                    platform obtained from the same party headquarters." They add that at times platforms
                    "obviously have been altered, edited, or corrected before being published  in party literature or pamphlets, and official records may be literally
                    non-existent." Under such circumstances neither the editors nor the University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press should have tolerated publication of so potentially useful a volume minus
                    citations to the sources used. So desirable, however, is this collection that this defect could be
                    remedied by the preparation of a brief guide to the sources for distribution to purchasers.
            The reviewer is reminded of a story the late Professor William 0. Lynch told students about a
                    manufacturer of blankets. This manufacturer claimed that his blankets were larger, but no more
                    expensive, than those of his competitors so that "it is the part that hangs over that keeps
                    you warm, but costs no more, which makes the difference." And so it is with the volume
                    under review. The editors presumably used particular sources in making transcripts and in proofing,
                    so that the citing of exact sources would have required but little additional effort and almost no
                    extra space or cost in publication. But in its existing state this volume will doubtless leave
                    reputable scholars skeptical and even cold unless they are detectives enough to find the sources or
                    able to persuade the editors to give them guidance through correspondence.
            Donald F. Carmony Indiana University
            
         
         
            
               Political Party Patterns in 
                            Michigan
                        . By Stephen B. and Vera H. Sarasohn. 
                        Wayne
                     State University Studies in Political Science, Number 2. (
                        Detroit
                    : 
                        Wayne
                     State University, 1957. Pp. x, 76. Appendix. Paperbound, $1.75.)
            This little book is an account of the development of the Republican and Democratic parties in 
                        Michigan
                     since the turn of the century. It is not so much a review of the struggle between the
                    parties as it is a study of the struggle among the factions within each party. This story of
                    factional struggles is largely a relation of their attempts to dominate the state party conventions,
                    to win the direct primary nominations, and to name delegates to the national convention. To tell
                    this story, the Sarasohns have taken each party separately and outlined the major features of
                    intraparty strife during the last fifty years. This strife has, of course, been affected  by the changing political strength and policies of the two parties. The
                    Republican party in 
                        Michigan
                     which enjoyed almost complete supremacy as the only real party worthy of the name until
                    the time of the Great Depression has suffered a general decline in its fortunes and in its voter
                    strength, while the Democratic party, poverty-ridden and hopeful only for the patronage to be gained
                    from national victories until sudden prosperity descended upon it after the Democratic landslide of
                    1932, and after a chaotic grab by many hands for control, developed a party organization and has
                    advanced in strength and in the number of Democratic voters. Much of the story is, of course, the
                    story of the entry of strong labor unions and automobile manufacturers into the controlling
                    positions in the Democratic and Republican parties, respectively.
            Though the book may be a helpful guide to those who wish an introduction to 
                        Michigan
                     politics for the purpose of extended research on the subject, it is unfortunately too
                    short to be of any great help to the general reader. Though not designed as a textbook, the book
                    suffers from the normal textbook complaints but will no doubt serve as an excellent starting point
                    for the further study of 
                        Michigan
                     political history. This type of work should be emulated by other states as a beginning
                    toward a better understanding of local politics.
            Joe A. Parsons, Jr. Indiana University
            
         
         
            
               The Government and Administration of 
                            Ohio
                        . By Francis R. Aumann and Harvey Walker. American Commonwealth Series, edited
                    by W. Brooke Graves. (
                        New York
                    : Thomas Y. Crowell Co., 1956. Pp. xiv, 489. Frontispiece, notes, appendix,
                    bibliography, and index. $5.95.)
            The pattern of development of the 
                        Ohio
                     state government in the century and a half covered in this book is a reflection of the
                    transition from an agricultural economy with emphasis on local self-government to an industrial
                    economy in which taxation and control are more nearly centralized at the state level. The executive
                    was kept weak in the early years in order that it might not grow into a power which could threaten
                    the liberties of the citizens. It was greatly strengthened in later years so that it could perform
                         the services which the citizens increasingly demanded of
                    the state government. This was a slow development and it was not until the twentieth century that 
                        Ohio
                    's governor was given the veto power.
            Very significant is the change in the educational picture. At the beginning most public schools were
                    of the one-room, isolated variety, administered and financed by the local school districts, but
                    since the passage in 1935 of the School Foundation Law and of the School Aid Law of 1955 the costs
                    of public education have been largely met out of state funds, and there has been a greatly increased
                    state supervisory role over the expenditure of these funds. To implement this supervisory function
                    more effectively a State Board of Education was established in 1955.
            It is interesting to note that the State Highway Patrol, in view of the lack of a state constabulary,
                    performs many of the functions which a constabulary would be expected to perform. In addition to its
                    main duty to enforce highway laws, it also maintains a communication network and keeps a fingerprint
                    file, a bogus check file, a rogue's gallery, and a "crime laboratory,"
                    which includes a lie-detector and other such equipment. All this is done under its authority to
                    patrol the highways.
            Because of the nature of the book—it is a summary of what the law is—the
                    general impression left is of achievement, of good intentions. This is a record of laws adopted by
                    the legislature and the people of 
                        Ohio
                     and not of the failures of legislation and enforcement. In general, therefore, there is
                    a tendency to feel a sense of pride in the accomplishments of the state and in the general evidence
                    of enlightenment and of intelligence shown in the handling of increasingly complex and difficult
                    economic, social, and political problems. However, the authors do recognize some shortcomings and
                    failures in 
                        Ohio
                     government and administration. They admit that the two-man bipartisan Civil Service
                    Commission tends to produce, under certain circumstances, a kind of "covert spoils
                    system." The merit system is not effectively maintained at the county and municipal level,
                    partly because of inadequate appropriations by the legislature for local administration. Of course,
                    the simplest way to hamstring state agencies is to eliminate or reduce state appropriations for
                    financing such agencies. Such reductions  can always be
                    justified on the ground of economy. The extreme crowding and general inadequacy of state prisons and
                    mental hospitals are not overlooked, but attention is called to the attempts to do something to
                    improve these conditions. Admitted too is the so-called constitutional gerrymander by means of which
                    cities are kept in a kind of rotten-borough status.
            In general, the reviewer has little negative criticism of this book. At one point the authors refer
                    to 
                        Massachusetts
                    ' claim cutting "directly across the northern part of 
                        Ohio
                    ." 
                        Massachusetts
                     never attempted to assert a claim to any portion of 
                        Ohio
                    . The somewhat confused statement of land claims toward the beginning of this book could
                    have been considerably clarified by the inclusion of a single map. There are a few minor misprints
                    and mechanical errors.
            On the whole, however, this is an enlightening book, which this reviewer recommends to legislators,
                    to the League of Women Voters, to other intelligent citizens of 
                        Ohio
                     and neighboring states, to all students of government, to high school and town
                    libraries, and to visitors from abroad who would understand the complexities, difficulties, and
                    advantages of the American federal system.
            Robert Samuel Fletcher Oberlin College
            
         
         
            
               A History of 
                            Minnesota
                        , Volume I. Revised edition. By William Watts Folwell. (
                        St. Paul
                    : 
                        Minnesota
                     Historical Society, 1956. Pp. xx, 533. Appendix and index. $6.50.)
            When this book appeared in 1921 as the first of Professor Folwell's four-volume history of 
                        Minnesota
                    , a reviewer in this magazine, doubtless its editor Logan Esarey, wrote: "It is
                    a pleasure to turn from the deluge of historical trash thrown on the market at present to the work
                    of an honest historian. Dr. Folwell has at his elbow the collections of the 
                        Minnesota
                     Historical society. He was president of 
                        Minnesota
                     university from 1869 to 1884, was a soldier in the Civil war, and has been actively
                    employed in governmental duties for near a half century. Besides thus understanding his state and
                    his people and besides having a personal acquaintance with the geography of his state, he writes in
                    a pleasing style. The volume under review covers the territorial period, from the appearance of
                    Radisson and Groseilliers, about 1660, down to the constitutional convention in 1857."
            
            Since 1921 this volume has become a classic for 
                        Minnesota
                     history prior to statehood. Having been out of print for some years, its reissue on the
                    eve of 
                        Minnesota
                    's centennial of statehood (1958) is doubly appropriate. Often episodical and
                    much prone to generalization and broad interpretations, it has numerous insights and shrewd
                    evaluations. In this reissue "no attempt has been made to incorporate newly discovered
                    sources or to bring Folwell's interpretations up to date in the light of subsequent
                    research. Only minor errors have been corrected, and new maps and illustrations have been
                    added" (p. vii).
            As indicated in the introduction, "recent scholarship has illustrated wide avenues in the
                    history of exploration and the fur trade—two fields in which this volume is perhaps
                    especially vulnerable to re-examination" (p. ix). Moreover, the last three to four decades
                    have brought augmented knowledge about the Indians, early settlements, and the like, but neither
                    foreknowledge nor hindsight are gifts which Clio bestows on even her most capable disciples!
            Professor Folwell completed his four-volume history of 
                        Minnesota
                     in 1929, the year of his death when he was ninety six. He was nearing ninety when the
                    first volume appeared. For six decades he was active in 
                        Minnesota
                     affairs; his fifteen years as president of the University of 
                        Minnesota
                     were followed by more than two decades as a professor of political science and
                    librarian on the faculty until his "retirement" in 1907. Even those who can
                    correct or improve portions of his multi-volume history will find in his volumes much information
                    and wisdom not elsewhere available. Persons desiring the complete set should secure it through the 
                        Minnesota
                     Historical Society.
            Donald F. Carmony Indiana University
            
         
         
            
               TVA, The First Twenty Years. Edited by Roscoe C. Martin. (
                        Knoxville
                    , Tenn. and University, Ala.: University of 
                        Tennessee
                     Press and University of 
                        Alabama
                     Press, 1956. Pp. xiii, 282. Charts, graphs, and index. $4.50.)
            For twenty-three years the nation has witnessed the growth of the 
                        Tennessee
                     Valley Authority from infancy to adulthood. These years have not been without a degree
                    of public concern for its development. Thousands of words  have
                    been used to describe its controversial aspects. Now with the passage of two decades, an up-to-date
                    inventory of the program's achievements and problems has been undertaken by the experts of
                    the TVA staff. With the support of the Bureaus of Public Administration of the Universities of 
                        Tennessee
                     and 
                        Alabama
                    , Editor Roscoe C. Martin has presented in TVA, The First Twenty Years
                    a series of essays based upon lectures originally delivered at 
                        Florida
                     State University which constituted a systematic analysis of the organization and
                    operation of the TVA.
            Although a half-dozen significant books have been published since 1950 on TVA, this volume is the
                    most readable study yet presented. Because of the careful editing, the work does not suffer from the
                    lack of continuity which often plagues a study of this kind. The topical organization is well done,
                    making the book's 282 pages a mine of information on the background, operation, and
                    accomplishments of the program. The chapter on "The Meaning of TVA" written by
                    Gordon R. Clapp, former Chairman of the Board of Directors, is probably the best concise description
                    of the Valley and its peoples, TVA workways, and the public issues concerned with its operation. In
                    each of the seventeen chapters the reader is reminded of the two most significant aspects of the
                    TVA—the broad scope of its work and the method employed to accomplish it.
            For the reader whose concept of the 
                        Tennessee
                     Valley Authority ends with the production of hydro-electric power, the authors provide
                    a mild shock in their illuminating discussions of such topics as the river control system, the power
                    program, river transportation, reservoir land management, fertilizer-munitions and agriculture,
                    forestry, health, recreation, and economic development. The scope of the program is indeed broad. It
                    will be remembered that the TVA Act of 1933 set a precedent in its unique regional character. One of
                    the principal objections to the program was the fear that in the conduct of its business it would
                    become a Goliath for the state and local governments. Twenty years have proved this fear unfounded.
                    The TVA has in no way superseded the responsibilities of the state and local governments in their
                    respective areas. These governments have had the same legal rights since 1933 as before, with TVA
                    responsibilities superimposed on those of existing governments. 
                    "The most interesting thing about this arrangement and the most significant for
                    TVA's method of operation, is that the Authority has no coercive power whatever with regard
                    to the long-established governments of the region." Much of the government in the 
                        Tennessee
                     Valley is accomplished by a system of co-operative administration which is based upon a
                    complex network of agreements encompassing all kinds of units, agencies, and groups. Interesting is
                    the observation that "the lessons of co-operative administration in the 
                        Tennessee
                     Valley may be especially significant in these times of renewed public discussion of
                    states' rights and federal-state relations. The TVA, a distinctly American creation, may
                    yet be found to have pointed a middle course for those who would avoid the extremes of the apoplexy
                    of centralization and the anarchy of disunion" (p. 10). A treatment of the broader
                    implications of TVA, i.e. the TVA in state and local government and in its national and
                    international setting, is concluded with a review of the past policy decisions which have shaped the
                    organization. Also included is a timely presentation of the problems which lie ahead for the
                    Authority.
            To make any pretense that the contributors to this report are unbiased would be absurd. The nature of
                    the book is candidly declared in the introduction. "Here is no impartial
                    on-the-one-hand-but-then-again-on-the-other account of the 
                        Tennessee
                     Valley Authority. Here, on the contrary, is an analysis by a devoted group of men who
                    participated responsibly in the forging of TVA." Although the book provides a helpful index
                    and informative charts and graphs, it does suffer from too little footnoting. The greatest
                    disappointment is the lack of any bibliography. This proves to be its only serious defect since the
                    volume otherwise represents an authoritative and comprehensive description of TVA. Perhaps the
                    decision not to include a bibliography was taken because of the 1953 publication by the TVA
                    Technical Library of a rather extensive one. However, the most helpful and up-to-date publication of
                    annotated references appears in Gordon R. Clapp's 1955 work, The TVA, An
                        Approach to the Development of a Region.
            
            The contributing staff members of the TVA and the Bureaus of Public Administration of the
                    Universities of 
                    
                        Tennessee
                     and 
                        Alabama
                     are to be congratulated in their publication of the TVA, The First Twenty
                        Years. It has established a milestone in the reporting of one of America's unique
                    institutions.
            Robert A. Frederick Indiana University
            
         
         
            
               The Amish Year. Text by Rollin C. Steinmetz. Photographs by Charles S. Rice. (
                        New Brunswick
                    : Rutgers University Press, 1956. Pp. 224. Frontispiece and illustrations.
                    $5.00.)
            On fabulously rich farmland drained by the lovely Susquehanna and the historic Conestoga, dwell
                    descendants of German Amish and Mennonite sects who found refuge in "Penn's
                    Woods" during the early eighteenth century. Their ancestors brought with them a religion
                    that was a way of life. During two centuries and a half the Amish have kept this way of life with
                    little or no change. A conceivable Rip Van Winkle of 
                        Lancaster
                     County would be but slightly startled should he awaken after two centuries at any farm
                    auction, barn raising, carriage shop, church service, wedding, or funeral. The "plain
                    people" would be wearing the same cut of clothes; preparing food by the "old
                    country" recipes; plowing and planting without benefit of modern machinery; trading with
                    the same shrewdness; listening to the old-time, long-drawn-out sermons; and driving to town, church,
                    or making neighborly visits in the same kind of family wagons and bachelors' buggies to
                    which their ninth and tenth generation ancestors had been accustomed. Only the materials would be
                    machine made instead of homespun, men's and women's clothes to a certain extent
                    would be factory made, food would be more varied, possibly, and more plentiful, and surroundings
                    somewhat changed.
            With enormously increased funds to purchase any heart's desire, the Amish remain untempted
                    by electric or gasoline-powered luxuries. They prefer to avoid utility bills and bank
                    charges—at the same time eschewing the advantages of interest and dividend income, for
                    they are always prepared to dig up the bucket with $30,000 or $50,000 from the
                    corner of the hogpen to invest in another farm of black gold on which to produce more corn, tobacco,
                    or clover to sell for more gold.
            
            For the most part they enjoy a wholesome way of life, far from the temptations of the city and the
                    lure of the turnpike. While they touch elbows with modern folk, they are not a part of modern life.
                    Even the few young people who are temporarily lured away by modern gadgets and customs usually
                    return to the fold of their ancestors after they assume the responsibilities of married life.
            An ordinary calendar year of work and festivities among the Amish of 
                        Lancaster County
                    , 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , has been well narrated by Steinmetz and greatly enhanced by the photographs of Rice.
                    Both the scholar and the man of the street will find this little volume interesting and informative.
            Elfrieda Lang Indiana University
            
         
         
            
               Bluegrass Cavalcade. Edited by Thomas D. Clark. (
                        Lexington
                    : University of 
                        Kentucky
                     Press, 1956. Pp. xv, 377. $5.00.)
            
               Bluegrass Cavalcade is an anthology of selected writings over the past two
                    centuries of various distinguished and not-so-distinguished authors who have dealt with the famed
                    Bluegrass region of central 
                        Kentucky
                    . Literary style as such has not been the criterion for inclusion: "A bit of
                    writing is considered good because it gives a sense of the immediate present in a particular period
                    in the Bluegrass story" (p. xiv). Yet Professor Clark has managed to include a large number
                    of excellent writers, both natives to the region and outsiders. History and fiction, tall tale and
                    romance, humor and pathos are here, ranging in mood from William Townsend's touching story
                    of the sale of Eliza to Allan Trout's eulogy of ham gravy.
            Here are writings exemplifying the "Promised Land" motif, including selections from
                    early historians such as John Filson and Gilbert Imlay, and descriptions of the Blue-grass of Henry
                    Clay (by Bernard Mayo) and of James Lane Allen (by Grant C. Knight). Here are the men who have made
                    the Bluegrass—adventurers, scoundrels, crude pioneers, and polished gentlemen. Found
                    together are such unlikely companions as Colonel David Meade of "Chaumière du 
                        Prairie
                    "; Mr. Shelby of Uncle Tom's Cabin; Riley Grannan,
                    enterprising gambler; the drunken well-digger, John Robert Shaw; the Bluegrass gentleman-farmer, J.
                    Winston Coleman,  Jr.; and "Happy" Chandler,
                    as seen by a 
                        London
                     correspondent. Women also have their place in this portrait of the
                    Blue-grass—such women as the courageous Jane Todd Crawford; Irvin S. Cobb's Miss
                    Tessie, the "unreconstructed rebel"; the flirtatious "Belle of the
                    Yukon"; and the female relatives whom Cassius Clay so unflatteringly portrayed.
            One section of this book is devoted to the problems faced by Kentuckians throughout their
                    history—religious problems, epidemics, court trials, the Civil War. Professor Clark has
                    collected vivid accounts of the Cane Ridge Revival of 1801 and of the Beauchamp and Wickliffe
                    trials; Joseph Hergesheimer's and John Fox's portrayals of the plight of the
                    Bluegrass people during the Civil War; Joe 
                        Jordan
                     on a near-lynching; and Henry Watterson on Reconstruction.
            Perhaps the high point of the book is the section entitled "The Sports of
                    Gentlemen," for here are described the varied and lively diversions of Bluegrass
                    Kentuckians for generations: politics, horses, rifles, whiskey, and burgoo. Quarter racing has been
                    a Bluegrass pastime, too, as well as that undercover sport which even today is carried on beyond
                    closed farm gates—cockfighting.
            It would not be difficult to criticize an anthology for its omissions. But Bluegrass
                        Cavalcade is not pretentious nor does it claim authority. It is a charming collection of
                    writings about a unique region and it is aimed at the general reader. Professor Clark, through the
                    impartiality and balance of his selections, has succeeded to some extent in dissipating the aura of
                    romance which has long surrounded the Bluegrass region, a region which to many people has meant only
                    white columns and fences, sleek horses, and 
                        Kentucky
                     Colonels. He has combined flattering with unflattering descriptions of the Bluegrass;
                    he has painted a picture of a region and its people, conscious of their individuality, proud of
                    their past, hesitant to admit outside influence; and he has treated this Bluegrass pride and its
                    attendant capacity for misdeeds with considerable fairness. The result is "a taste of the
                    rich regional flavor" for the mature reader and for the youthful reader an introduction to 
                        Kentucky
                     history.
            Ruth Cline Heffner Indiana Magazine of History
            
         
         
         
            
               Medicine in 
                            Chicago
                        : A Chapter in the Social and Scientific Development of a City. By Thomas
                    Neville Bonner. (
                  Madison, Wisconsin
               : American History Research Center, 1957. Pp. xvii,
                    302. Frontispiece, illustrations, notes to the text, bibliography, and index. $5.00.)
            Within the last two decades an increasing number of professional historians have been directing their
                    attention to medical history. Dean of these is Richard H. Shryock, director of the John Hopkins
                    Institute of the History of Medicine. Thomas N. Bonner is a talented newcomer to this group. He
                    first attracted notice from the medical profession in 1952–1953, while he was dean of
                    William Woods College, through his articles "Dr. Nathan Smith Davis and Growth of 
                        Chicago
                     Medicine 1850–1900" and "The Social and Political
                    Attitudes of Midwestern Physicians 1840–1940: 
                        Chicago
                     as a Case History." He is now associate professor of history and chairman of
                    the department of social sciences at the University of Omaha.
            The present volume was prepared under a special fellowship provided by the 
                        Chicago
                     Medical Society. The studies just mentioned together with one on Dr. Bayard Holmes made
                    the selection of Dr. Bonner as writer for "a history of medicine in the 
                        Chicago
                     area in its geographic, social, racial, and economic environment" the logical
                    one. The editing of the manuscript was done by Miss Gayle Thornbrough of the Indiana Historical
                    Bureau. Appropriately, the foreword is by Dr. Shryock.
            
               Medicine in 
                            Chicago
                        
                is essentially a social history. It deals with the origin and development of
                    the city's medical schools and hospitals, the story of its professional societies and
                    publications, its emergence as a force in twentieth century medicine, the expansion of medical
                    education, the progress of public health work, the interrelation of the medical profession and the
                    public, etc. This perspective represents a departure from most medico-historical treatises which
                    focus attention on outstanding personalities, their ideas and deeds, rather than on the social
                    implications of medicine. In spite of this perspective, however, the individual lives of 
                        Chicago
                    's medically great are by no means neglected; but such biographic material as
                    is incorporated will be found to be deftly interwoven with the greater story "of how 
                        Chicago
                     grew from a small disease-ridden settlement—and became  the great medical center it is today." The study is a solid
                    one, fully documented, constituting in Dr. Shryock's opinion the most thorough analysis of
                    the medical experience of an American city that has thus far been made.
            That a degree of discord between the writer and the sponsoring group came to exist may be presumed
                    from the "Statement" introduced by the Committee on Medical History of the 
                        Chicago
                     Medical Society. After averring that the author was given freedom to tell the story in
                    his own way, the members proceed to say: "Frankly, this Committee disagrees with some of
                    Dr. Bonner's conclusions and his appraisal of some of the personalities and events that
                    made medical history in 
                        Chicago
                    ." "A layman," they explain, "may not always
                    appreciate the power that some esoteric factors such as the Code of Medical Ethics have on the lives
                    of members of the medical profession."
            This is the difference of viewpoint to be expected between those seeing medicine from the inside and
                    those viewing it from without. The great merit of the work lies in the very circumstance that by
                    playing down the personal aspects of medical history a record is achieved which turns out to be more
                    or less typical of the course of medical development in the metropolitan center. The illustrations
                    are few and in two instances none too happily chosen. The style is that commonly found in factual
                    exposition, neither particularly pedestrian nor especially stimulating.
            
               Medicine in 
                            Chicago
                        
                should appeal both to the general reader and to the physician. For Indianians
                    the study has significance as a notable contribution to the socio-cultural and medical development
                    of the Midwest.
            William DePrez Inlow Inlow Clinic, 
                            Shelbyville
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               Manufacturing Structure and Pattern of the 
                            South Bend
                        -
                            Mishawaka
                         Area. By Robert N. Gold. (
                        Chicago
                    : The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1954. Pp. xiii, 224. Illustrations. $3.00.)
            This report of research done in 1953–1954 under a grant from the Committee of 100 of 
                        South Bend
                     and 
                        Mishawaka
                     describes the manufacturing structure and pattern of the area at that time and
                    appraises them in the light of the research tools of the urban geographer. Its purposes are: to
                    provide  the residents of the area with a basis for better
                    understanding of manufacturing, the major economic aspect of their community; to provide
                    institutions and organizations within the area a basis for understanding their objectives and
                    problems within a broad perspective; to provide outside institutions and organizations similar
                    information; and to contribute to an understanding of the economic development of cities.
            The basic sources include published materials, unpublished reports and papers, personal interviews, a
                    special Manufacturers' Inquiry or questionnaire, and field maps made by the department of
                    geography, University of 
                        Chicago
                    . The statistical units of study were those delimited by the Bureau of the Census: the 
                        South Bend
                     Standard Metropolitan Area (
                        St. Joseph County
                    , Indiana); the 
                        South Bend
                     Urbanized Area (
                  South Bend, Mishawaka
               , Osceola, Roseland, and the adjacent
                    peripheral built-up areas); the city of 
                        South Bend
                    ; and the city of 
                        Mishawaka
                    .
            The study primarily describes the structure of manufacturing and employment and also the geographic
                    and locational pattern of plants and transportation facilities within the area as of 1953.
                    Historical data were used for only limited aspects of the study, the major part of which is
                    concerned only with the current picture of manufacturing and its related aspects.
            Historical background, however, is sketched for the growth of population and transportation
                    facilities. The location and growth of 
                        South Bend
                     was partly the result of its location at the portage between the 
                        St. Joseph
                     and Kankakee rivers. 
                        South Bend
                     was a natural converging point for trails and early roads intersecting the river. Rail
                    connections east and west came as early as 1851 and the south by 1855.
            The rapid growth of the 
                        South Bend
                     urbanized area since 1939 is explained in terms of its locational advantages in
                    relation to the national market for manufactured goods and to sources of manufacturing parts,
                    sub-assemblies, and partially processed materials. Studies of urban geographers are cited to show
                    that 
                        South Bend
                     is located within the area of highest potential manufacturing sales and the belt of
                    lowest transportation costs. This favorable location is cited as the primary basis for potential
                    industrial growth.
            Also discussed are the physical pattern of urban growth; the locational pattern of manufacturing
                    areas; the major  types of economic activities furnishing
                    employment; the major types of manufacturing activity by census categories; the ownership of firms;
                    the markets served; estimates of labor productivity; the seasonality of production and employment;
                    the age, sex, and skill of the population and the labor force; transportation agencies used; the
                    sources of supplies and raw materials; and the extent of union organization and labor problems for
                    the last ten years. Special attention is given to the degree of specialization or
                    non-diversification within manufacturing employment and its economic consequences and to the role of
                    the eight major manufacturers who together used 80 per cent of the area's manufacturing
                    employment. The final chapter describes efforts currently being made to plan community development
                    and industrial growth in the area in terms of both expansion and diversification.
            Joseph A. Batchelor Indiana University
            
         
         
         
            Calendar of Historical Meetings
            
               Indiana Academy of the Social Sciences, Notre Dame, October 11–12, 1957.
               Indiana History Teachers Association (sectional meeting of Indiana State Teachers
                        Association), 
                            Indianapolis
                        , October 24–25, 1957.
               Indiana History Conference, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , December 7–8, 1957.
               American Historical Association, 
                            New York
                         City, December 28–30, 1957.
               
                  Mississippi Valley Historical Association, 
                            Minneapolis
                        , April 24–26, 1958.
            
         
         
            Award for Studies in American History
            The 
                        Mississippi
                     Valley Historical Association announces the inauguration of and annual award of
                    $1,000 for an outstanding study of American history. The first award will be made in
                    April, 1959, and the manuscript selected will be published by the University of 
                        Kentucky
                     Press.
            The committee selected by the Association to conduct the competition for the annual award is composed
                    of Dr. Chase C. Mooney, Indiana University, chairman; Dr. Richard W. Leopold, Northwestern
                    University; Dr. Edward C. Kirkland, Bowdoin College; Dr. E. Merton 
                        England
                    , University of 
                        Kentucky
                    ; and Dr. Fletcher M. Green, University of 
                        North Carolina
                    . Dates for submission of manuscripts for the first judging are June 1 through August
                    31, 1958.
            To be eligible for the award manuscripts must be not more than 100,000 words. For further information
                    persons interested in having manuscripts considered for the MVHA award should write to Dr. Chase C.
                    Mooney, History Department, Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    .
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
