
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 62, Issue 4, pages 277-366. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:62+issue:4+year:1966&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Biographical and Historical Sketches of Early Indiana
            
                    William Wesley Woollen
                
            
                    Edited by Donald F. Carmony
                
            William Wesley Woollen's Biographical and Historical Sketches of Early
                    Indiana (
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1883) is a valuable and often used source concerning Indiana history from territorial
                    days through the 1870's. Most of its sketches are biographical, but they include much
                    commentary about political, economic, and cultural life. As indicated in the Preface, "no
                    inconsiderable part" of the book was "derived from the author's own
                    observation and recollection, and would pass away with him were it not committed to
                    writing." One of the most interesting of Woollen's sketches is that on "
                        Madison
                     from 1844 to 1852." The author had been a resident of 
                        Madison
                     in these years.
            Madison was Indiana's leading city at the middle of the nineteenth century.
                    Woollen's portrait describes its public buildings, churches, newspapers, lawyers,
                    politicians, trade, and manufacturing plants in the city's heyday. Etched in this portrait
                    are revealing comments about fugitive slaves, antislavery sentiment, treatment of the insane, the
                    Mexican War, graded streets and paved sidewalks, 
                        Madison
                     as a 
                        quasi-Southern city
                    , and the like. Woollen's picture is incomplete concerning such items as the
                    significance to 
                        Madison
                     of the Ohio River, of the 
                        Ohio
                    -
                        Mississippi
                     outlet, and 
                        Madison
                    's primacy as a Hoosier railroad center. Perhaps these items were too obvious
                    to his audience and readers to require emphasis. Woollen, however, perceptively recognized that
                    Madison's decline, at least relative to other Indiana cities, was well advanced by the late
                    1870's.
            A native of 
                        Maryland
                    , Woollen was born in 
                        Dorchester County
                     in 1828.1 He arrived at 
                        Madison
                     in 1844 and remained there until 1860. During these years he taught school, attended
                        
                  
                     1 For biographical material on Woollen see: Richard E. Banta (comp.),
                                Indiana Authors and Their Books, 1816–1916 (
                                Crawfordsville
                            , Ind., 1949), 349; A Biographical History of Eminent and Self-Made
                                Men of the State of Indiana … (2 vols., 
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1880), II, 243–44; clipping [
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News?], September 24, 1902, from George S. Cottman's scrapbook,
                            Indiana State Library, VIII, 2.
               
                    
                    
                        Hanover
                     College, studied law, served as both auditor and treasurer of 
                        Jefferson County
                    , briefly edited a paper, acquired a nearby farm, and entered the banking business.
                    During the Civil War he engaged in banking at 
                        Franklin
                    , then he moved to 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1865. Although banking remained his principal business interest, he also
                    participated in insurance. He apparently resided at 
                        Indianapolis
                     until his death in 1902.
            Woollen made varied contributions to the writing and editing of Indiana's history. His
                    sketch on 
                        Madison
                    , originally given as an address at 
                        Madison
                     High School in 1879, was published as a booklet. According to Richard E. Banta, Woollen
                    authored and edited Representative Men of Indiana (
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1880), but a copy of this item has not been located. Next came the Sketches, followed by his William McKee Dunn, Brigadier General, U.S.A. (
                        New York
                    , 1892). In 1900 the Indiana Historical Society published the Executive
                        Journal of the Indiana Territory, 1800–1816, which Woollen edited along with
                    Daniel Wait Howe and Jacob Piatt Dunn. This latter publication and the Sketches
                    are his most important contributions to Indiana history.2
            
            Woollen's sketch of 
                        Madison
                     is here photographically reproduced. No attempt has been made to complete the names of
                    persons mentioned or otherwise to explain or supplement the text, which is largely self-explanatory,
                    as such editorial additions would destroy its flavor and flow.
            
               
                  2
                        
                     
                                Madison
                             from 1844 to 1852: A Lecture. Although lacking place and date of
                        publication, this item was probably published at 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1879. Banta, Indiana Authors and Their Books, 349; William
                        Wesley Woollen, Daniel Wait Howe, and Jacob Piatt Dunn (eds.), Executive Journal of
                            the Indiana Territory, 1800–1816 (Indiana Historical Society
                            Publications, Vol. III, No. 3; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1900), 63–252.
            
            
            MADISON FROM 1844 TO 1852.∗
            
            
               THE
                    PUBLIC
                    BUILDINGS.
            I FIRST knew 
                        Madison
                     in 1844. In October of that year I landed, one evening, at the city wharf, and put up
                    for the night at a hostelry known as the Light House. It stood on the east side of Mulberry street
                    extended, between 
                        Ohio
                     street and low-water mark. It was a two-story brick and frame house of the ordinary
                    style, and was the only building then in the city between 
                        Ohio
                     street and the river, and it was the only one that ever stood within these bounds since
                    I have known the city. It long since passed away, but its location and its appearance are indelibly
                    written upon my memory.
            At this time Madison was a well built city of 4000 or 5000 souls. Its streets were graded and its
                    sidewalks paved much as they are to-day. The exception I now remember is High street, which then,
                    east of Main street, was neither graded nor graveled. The principal hotels in the city at that time
                    were the 
                        Madison
                     Hotel and the 
                        Washington
                     House. The former stood on the site of the Academy of Our Lady of the Angels, and was
                    kept by George D. Fitzhugh, now of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and the latter, which was under the direction of Enoch D. Withers, still stands as a
                    monument of hotel architecture of the olden time. The Court-house was a two-story brick building of
                    modest pretensions, standing on the site of the present one. Southeast of the Court-house was the
                    jail, an old, dingy building two stories high, fronting on an alley, with cells in either story, and
                    rooms for the 
                  
                     ∗ An address delivered at the High School building in 
                                Madison
                            , on Thursday evening, March 13, 1879.
               
                    
                    
                  Reproduced from William Wesley Woollen, Biographical and Historical
                                Sketches of Early Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1883).
               
                     jailer on the south. On the northeast corner of the Court-house
                    lot was the Clerk's office, a squatty one-story brick house of two rooms, fronting on Main
                    Cross street. At the northwest corner of the lot, on the corner of Main Cross and Main streets,
                    stood a two-story building, having two rooms in the first story, and three in the second, with a
                    platform on a level with the latter running the entire length from east to west. The platform was
                    reached from both Main Cross and Main streets by wooden stairways, over which people passed to reach
                    the offices above. The main room below was occupied by Bramwell & Phillips as a dry goods
                    store, and the other was the office of Dr. Joseph H. D. Rogers whose presence is not yet denied you.
                    The west room above was the Recorder's office, the center one the Auditor's
                    office, and the east one the office of the County Treasurer. Around the Court-house lot was a brick
                    wall four feet high, capped with stone. Such were the public buildings of 
                        Madison
                     thirty-five years ago.
            
               THE
                    CHURCHES.
            Saint Michael's Catholic church then stood, and the priest who ministered to the spiritual
                    wants of the parish was Maurice de St. Palais, afterwards the distinguished Bishop of 
                        Vincennes
                     This prelate was succeeded by Father Dupontavice, who was known to you all. The Rev.
                    Harvey Curtis was pastor of the Second Presbyterian church, the Rev. Mr. Leavenworth of the First
                    Presbyterian church, and the Rev. E. D. Owen of the Baptist church on Vine street. The policy of the
                    Methodist church is such that its clergy remain but a short time in charge of a particular
                    congregation, but I remember the Rev. W. C. Smith and the Rev. Prescott as pastors of Wesley Chapel,
                    and the Rev. John Keiger and the Rev. Dr. Daily as pastors of Third street church. Saint
                    John's church was not then in existence. This church was an offshoot from Wesley Chapel.
                    Among its leading members were the Taylors—Gamaliel, John H. and William
                    M.—Caleb Schmidlapp and Charles W. Basnett. The church building was erected in 1849 or
                    1850, near the site of the first Methodist church built in 
                        Madison
                    . The Rev. John S. Bayliss was the first pastor of Saint John's.
            Christ Episcopal church and the United Presbyterian church  were
                    erected during this time. The former was built mainly by the exertions of Joseph M. Moore, then
                    cashier of the 
                        Madison
                     Branch Bank, and of its worthy rector, the Rev. Dr. Claxton. Dr. Claxton was a
                    gentleman of acknowledged ability and was esteemed outside his parish as well as within it. He was,
                    probably, the most popular minister in the city of his day. The Reverend James Browne, pastor of the
                    United Presbyterian church, was a man of earnest convictions and of deep piety. He was an active
                    worker in the anti-slavery cause, and did much to create public sentiment among us in opposition to
                    human slavery. He used to declaim against this abomination from the pulpit, and was ever ready to
                    espouse the cause of the oppressed. It is to the labors of such men as Mr. Browne that the world is
                    indebted for that public sentiment which eventually strangled this monster in his lair.
            
               THE
                    NEWSPAPERS.
            At this time there were two weekly newspapers published in 
                        Madison
                    , the Banner and the Courier. The first was edited
                    by Daniel D. Jones, known as Davy Jones, and the latter by Rolla Doolittle. Mr. Jones was a clapper
                    little gentleman, a Welshman by birth, and in his day the foremost newspaper writer in the State.
                    His sentences were short and terse, and their meaning always apparent. He seldom wrote his
                    editorials; he set them at the case and composed them as he handled the types. He was a genial,
                    social man, delighting in fun and practical jokes. I was once at a social party at his house when a
                    most ludicrous incident occurred. He kissed a young lady, who turned upon him as if to box his ears.
                    His wife, a large, portly woman, was present, and to her Mr. Jones ran for protection. She was
                    seated, and he cuddled by her side, sitting on the floor with his head under her arm, and looking
                    into her face, his eyes sparkling with merriment, he said: "Mother, protect your
                    boy." I need say nothing of Mr. Doolittle, the editor of the Courier, as
                    he is of and with you at the present time.
            William W. Crail, now, as then, of 
                  Louisville,
                            Kentucky
               , bought a half interest in the
                        Banner, and soon afterwards it was converted into a daily. On Mr.
                    Jones's death, in 1851, his late interest in the paper was purchased by the Hon. John R.
                         Cravens, who, in March, 1851, sold it to William Wesley
                    Woollen. Subsequent to this time Mr. Woollen bought Mr. Crail's interest, and in 1853 sold
                    the Banner to General 
                        Milton
                     Stapp, who soon afterwards disposed of it to Captain W. H. Keyt, in whose hands it
                    died.
            Samuel F. and John I. Covington bought the Courier in 1848, or thereabout, and
                    changed it to a daily. In 1849 they sold it to Mr. M. C. Garber, now its senior proprietor. Mr.
                    Garber is the ranking newspaper publisher in the State, having been continuously engaged in the
                    business for twenty-nine years and over.
            In 1851 
                        Milton
                     Gregg and John G. Sering established the 
                  
                            Madison
                         Daily Tribune. After publishing the Tribune for a short time
                    Mr. Sering withdrew from the firm, and Mr. Gregg removed the paper to New 
                        Albany
                    , where it was published for several years under his direction.
            In 1852 the Daily Madisonian was established by a company of Democratic
                    politicians. Rolla Doolittle was its publisher, and Robert S. Sproule its editor. It lived during
                    the Scott and Pierce campaign, and soon thereafter it yielded up the ghost.
            A daily paper was published a week or so during this time by B. F. Foster and Ben. F. Reed, but its
                    life was too short for it to be properly classed among the journals of 
                        Madison
                    .
            A Free-soil paper was established in 1848 to advocate the election of 
                        Van
                     Buren and Adams. Its editor was Riley E. Stratton, who afterwards went to 
                        Oregon
                     and became a leading jurist of that State.
            With the exceptions of two religious weeklies—one a Baptist and the other a
                    Universalist—these are all the newspapers published in 
                        Madison
                     during the time covered by this address.
            
               THE
                    BAR.
            At this time the bar of Madison was very able. Marshall the giant intellect of Indiana, was of it; so
                    was the suave and polished Sullivan; the painstaking and prolix Stevens; Glass, vigorous in mind and
                    body; the polite and affable Dunn; the brilliant and erratic Sheets; the scholarly King; the
                    methodical Markley; the sarcastic Chapman; the studious and careful Troxell; the brusque Daily; the
                    two Brights, the elder a lawyer  of much ability, and the
                    younger, who gathered in the Senate chamber the laurels which would have been his had he continued
                    at the bar. The two William Hendrickses, senior and junior, were of it—the elder an
                    ex-Governor and an ex-Senator; the younger genial in disposition and with a heart ever responsive to
                    distress: 
                        "Green be the turf above thee,
                        Friend of my better days;
                        None knew thee but to love thee,
                        None named thee but to praise."
                     There were two Abram Hendrickses—John Abram and Abram W. There were the two
                    Hillises—William C. and John S.; Oliver S. Pitcher, once a partner of the elder Bright;
                    Hull, and Thom, and Crittenden, and Walker, and Shaw, and perhaps others whom I have forgotten. One
                    whom I have not named I first knew as a wagon-maker in the neighboring town of 
                        Hanover
                    . One-half the day he worked at his bench; the other half and well into the night he
                    studied law. Weekly, under the summer's sun and through the winter's snow, he
                    walked to 
                        Madison
                     to recite his lessons, for he was too poor to pay for riding. In due time he stood his
                    examination and was admitted to the bar. He came here and opened an office, but clients came not.
                    Weekly board bills were to pay, clothing had to be bought, and other necessary expenses to be met,
                    and how to do these things was the problem this courageous young man was to solve. More than once he
                    consulted with me in regard to abandoning his profession and returning to his trade. I advised
                    against it, and the advice was followed. After awhile "the tide which, taken at its flood,
                    leads on to fortune," turned. He was elected City Attorney, then County Attorney, then a
                    Senator, and now he is the honored Judge of your Circuit Court.∗
            
            
                    "Honor and shame from no condition rise;
                    Act well your part, there all the honor lies."
                
            Many of those I have named have pleaded their last case and gone to judgment. Marshall sleeps near
                    your city, mourned by a State, and he would be mourned by a nation had his theater of action been
                    larger; Sullivan left you but yesterday, like a ripe sheaf garnered in the field; Stevens, overtaken
                        
                  
                     ∗ Hon. J. Y. Allison.
               
                     in old age by poverty, his mind gave way, and he died at the
                    Indiana Hospital for the Insane; Dunn fills an honorable place in the military service of the
                    country; Glass was cut down in the prime of a vigorous manhood; Sheets died young, a victim of an
                    unfortunate appetite; King is practicing his profession in 
                        Chicago
                    ; Markley is a prosperous merchant in the same city; Troxell lives in North-western
                    Indiana, still engaged in the practice of the law; Daily, after representing 
                        Nebraska
                     in the National Congress, died while yet a young man; the elder Bright is an invalid,
                    and lives at the capital of the State, an honored citizen; and the younger Bright, after serving
                    seventeen years as a Senator of the 
                        United States
                    , died a few years ago in the 
                        Monumental City
                    , and his remains now lie mouldering on the banks of the blue Patapsco. The two William
                    Hendrickses died in your midst many years ago; John Abram Hendricks fell at Pea Ridge while leading
                    his regiment against the enemy; Abram W. Hendricks is an eminent lawyer at 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; William C. Hillis lives in Northern 
                        Missouri
                    , where he has filled several offices of honor and profit: Shaw is a retired merchant of
                            
                  Dayton, Ohio
               ; John S. Hillis died in his youth, and was laid in the shade of the
                    old homestead where he first saw the light of day; Walker lives among you; Pitcher is a thrifty
                    business man in a sister State; Crittendeti is practicing his profession at 
                        Washington City
                    ; Hull and Thom are dead and they were buried in your midst.
            
               THE
                    CIRCUIT
                    JUDGES.
            In this connection it is proper that I should say something of the Judges before whom these men
                    practiced their profession. When I first knew 
                        Madison
                     the Circuit Judge was Miles C. Eggleston. He was then in feeble health and well
                    stricken in years. He was small in stature, a good lawyer, and although at times cross and petulant,
                    he never forgot the dignity of his station.
            Courtlancl dishing succeeded Judge Eggleston upon the bench. He had respectable talents, was very
                    dressy and quite a beau among the ladies. While serving as judge he was appointed Chargé
                    d'Affaires to 
                        Ecuador
                    . After serving out his term he entered the service of the 
                        Nicaragua
                     Transit Company, and soon thereafter died on the Isthmus of 
                        Panama
                    .
            
            Alexander C. Downey, now, as then, a resident of Rising Sun, followed Judge Cushing as presiding
                    judge of the 
                        Madison
                     Circuit. Judge Downey is, or was at this time, an inveterate wag. I will relate two
                    incidents which will show the truth of this:
            In these days full beards were unknown, and a moustache was as rare as a disinterested friend. The
                    Rev. Frederick T. Brown once apologized from his pulpit for wearing a full beard, and no other
                    public man of the day had the temerity to offend in a similar manner. A young man noted as a wit,
                    and who, since that time, has attracted much attention by reason of a rencounter which resulted in
                    death, removed to 
                        Madison
                     at this time. He had a red moustache which he cultured with the greatest care. He was
                    often in the Court-house, and one day while he was there Judge Downey wrote the following order and
                    handed it to the clerk:
            "Ordered by the court, that the young man with the red moustache be taken into the custody
                    of the sheriff and by him conducted to the nearest barber shop and there shaved within an inch of
                    his life; and may the Lord have mercy on his soul."
            On another occasion, when the term of the court was nearly ended and order was lax, Abram W.
                    Hendricks and John S. Hillis lay down at full length within the bar of the court-room. Observing
                    their posture, Judge Downey wrote the following order and passed it to the clerk:
            "Ordered by the court, that Abram W. Hendricks and John S. Hillis, two members of this bar,
                    be, and each of them hereby is, fined five dollars for contempt of court for lying at full length
                    within the bar during the sitting of the court." And on a line below the order, and in
                    brackets, he added: "Which may be satisfied by bringing into court, at once, twelve good,
                    ripe watermelons." The dozen watermelons were soon in the Temple of Justice and the wrath
                    of the Judge appeased.
            
               JUDGES
                    OF
                    THE
                    PROBATE
                    COURT.
            At this time William Hendricks, junior, was the Judge of the Jefferson Probate Court. This court was
                    one of limited jurisdiction,  its business being to settle the
                    estates of deceased persons, and to care for their minor children. Judge Hendricks was one of the
                    kindest men I ever knew. Of a genial nature, he had the esteem and love of all who knew him. I never
                    heard him say an unkind word of any one, nor any one say an unkind word of him. He was one of those
                    rare men whose province is to make happy every one they meet. I can recall the memory of no one with
                    more pleasure than that of this good and modest man. In the language applied to another by one of
                    the most gifted daughters of Indiana, "He was good enough to be a woman."
            Williamson Dunn, of 
                        Hanover
                    , succeeded Judge Hendricks. He was a man of marked character. He was a soldier of the
                    war of 1812, and had served the State in many important positions. He was of unquestioned courage,
                    and although an elder of the Presbyterian church, he never pleaded his religion in bar for not
                    resenting an insult. In the year 1848 a meeting was held in the Court-house to put forward General
                    Taylor for the presidency. It was the first meeting for that purpose held in the country, and as it
                    was mainly inspired by Judge Dunn, it will be seen that he was the author of the movement that
                    culminated in the election of old "Rough and Ready" to the presidency. The Judge
                    offered a resolution nominating General Taylor and supported it in an earnest speech. Charles
                    Woodward submitted an amendment, putting forward Tom Corwin, of 
                        Ohio
                    , for Vice-President. This Judge Dunn opposed. He said that its adoption would militate
                    against the interests of General Taylor. It will be remembered that Governor Corwin opposed the
                    Mexican war. In a speech delivered in the Senate of the 
                        United States
                    , he said:
            "If I were a Mexican I would tell you, ‘Have you not room in your own country to
                    bury your dead men? If you come into mine we will greet you with bloody hands, and welcome you to
                    hospitable graves.’"
            Referring to this speech Judge Dunn said that while he could cordially support its author for
                    Vice-President, many friends of General Taylor would be driven from him if his name were  coupled with that of the man who had uttered such a sentiment. Mr.
                    Woodward replied to him with some warmth, and during his speech said': "The
                    gentleman admits that the nomination of Governor Corwin would be a good one, but says he is afraid
                    to have it made." Slapping his breast with his hand as was his custom when speaking
                    earnestly, he exclaimed, "Cowardice, sir, cowardice." Judge Dunn sprang to his
                    feet, and approaching Mr. Woodward, said in a loud voice: "I am an old man, and never
                    before was cowardice imputed to me. I ask the-gentleman to take back his words. Will he do
                    it?" Whether it was the sight of the judge's fist, or whether it was a sense of
                    justice that caused Mr. Woodward to withdraw the offensive words, I know not, but I remember they
                    were withdrawn.
            
               THE
                    ASSOCIATE
                    JUDGES.
            Previous to the adoption of the present constitution each county had two associate judges. These
                    officials, usually denominated side judges, sat on either side of the presiding judge, and acted as
                    guy-ropes to hold him level. As a rule they were neither Blackstones nor Mansfields, but were
                    possessed of good common sense, an important requisite of the righteous judge. William M. Taylor and
                    Robert Kinnear were the associate judges in Jefferson, and they were the last of their line. They
                    went out of office with the old constitution, but their deeds live after them. Judge Taylor was a
                    low, chunky man with a kindly face, was a saddler by trade and a gentleman by nature. He dressed
                    neatly, wore a fob-chain with a large seal dangling at his side, and walked with a cane. Judge
                    Kinnear was a farmer, and lived near Bryantsburgh. He was a large man with stooped shoulders and an
                    ungainly walk. These judges sometimes, though rarely, held court in the absence of the presiding
                    judge. When they did so the lawyers would call up their cases which had no merit and have them
                    decided. I remember one case which was tried in the absence of Judge Cushing that caused much
                    merriment at the time. It grew out of a horse trade, and Mr. Michael G. Bright was the defendant,
                    and acted as his own attorney. It was of that class of suits which, under the old practice, was
                    brought when the plaintiff was not the party in interest. Mr. Bright called the case, and, as
                    attorney for the  plaintiff, ordered it dismissed. "Not
                    so fast, Mr. Bright," said Mr. Marshall, rising to his feet. "I have something to
                    say about that." He proceeded to state the case, and succeeded in satisfying the court that
                    it should not be dismissed. The trial proceeded, and Mr. Bright made an ingenious speech in which he
                    quoted much law, and when he sat down it seemed certain that his case was won. Mr. Marshall arose,
                    and with unusual deliberation addressed the court. He said that as the case was a small
                    one—the amount involved being but sixty dollars—he had given it but little
                    thought; that Mr. Bright knew the law, and as he was attorney for the plaintiff, attorney for the
                    defendant, and defendant, himself, he had no doubt thoroughly familiarized himself with the case;
                    that, if what he had laid down to the court as law was the law, he was entitled to a finding in his
                    favor; therefore, he moved the court that Mr. Bright be put upon his oath, and required to answer as
                    to whether or not the law he had given the court was the law of the land. Turning to Mr. Bright, and
                    pointing at him with his finger, he exclaimed: "Will you swear, Mr. Bright, will you swear,
                    sir?" The effect was electrical. Mr. Bright would not swear, and Mr. Marshall won the case.
            
               THE
                    COUNTY
                    COMMISSIONERS.
            The County Commissioners in these days were Nathan Robinson, John E. Gale, John Kirk, John Smock and
                    James W. Hinds. It was during the administration of the first three of these gentlemen that the
                    present jail and jailer's residence were built. Before undertaking a work requiring so
                    large an outlay of money they concluded to go on a tour of observation and examine the best models
                    of such buildings they could find. Accordingly, accompanied by their architect, Monroe W. Lee, they
                    went to 
                        Ohio
                     to inspect the prisons of that State. They journeyed in a stage-coach—for in
                    those days railroads were not so common as they are to-day—and one afternoon during the
                    trip they had for a fellow-passenger a loquacious gentleman who made himself exceedingly agreeable
                    to "the innocents abroad." When night drew her curtains over the earth and the
                    bright eyes of the stranger could no longer light the stage-coach, the honorable gentlemen from
                    Jefferson went to sleep. They  could not retire to the arms of
                    Morpheus, for there was no couch to repose upon, so they contented themselves with sitting still and
                    doing homage to the sleepy god by reverentially bowing their heads. "Some wee short hour
                    ayant the twal "the coach stopped at a country town to permit the stranger to alight.
                    Having touched terra firma, he sought his baggage in the dark, and as Captain Kirk
                    sat sleeping, with his head nearly touching his knees, the stranger seized him by the nose. The
                    clutch of the stranger awoke the Captain and brought him to his senses. He angrily demanded the
                    cause of the assault. "Pardon me, sir," replied the stranger, "I thought
                    I had hold of my carpetsack."
            
               THE
                    COUNTY
                    CLERK.
            John II. Taylor was Clerk of the courts during the time of which I speak. He was a small mah, of
                    light complexion, affable in manner and a fluent talker. Dr. Tefft, at that time editor of the Ladies' Repository, declared, in an article published in his magazine,
                    that Mr. Taylor's house was the home of the prophets—referring to the fact that
                    it was the uniform stopping-place of the Methodist clergy.
            Mr. Taylor was a great lover of tobacco. He chewed it constantly when not asleep, and was never seen,
                    in-doors or outdoors, at home or abroad, without his cheek being distended by an enormous quid of
                    the narcotic plant. About this time Daguerrean artists first appeared in the West, and one of them
                    came to 
                        Madison
                    . There was a rush to his rooms for pictures, and among others was Mr. Taylor. He
                    succeeded in securing a good likeness of himself, and took it home to show it to his family. Handing
                    it to his wife he asked her how she liked it. "Better than the original," replied
                    the good dame; "the tobacco is there but not the spittle."
            
               THE
                    SHERIFFS.
            The sheriff's of 
                        Jefferson county
                     during this time were William H. Phillips, Robert Right Rea, Henry Deputy, and Robert
                    M. Smith. Mr. Phillips still lives among you, so it is unnecessary to speak of him, but I can not
                    pass Messrs. Rea and Deputy without notice. They were both men of marked peculiarities of character
                    and took active parts in the public affairs of their  day. Mr.
                    Rea was a well built man of ordinary size, with a bald head and kindly face. He was unlettered but
                    was unusually shrewd and cunning. He was a natural detective and a terror to absconding thieves and
                    runaway cows. He was also feared by runaway slaves, for many a panting fugitive was arrested by him
                    and returned to bondage. I never could satisfactorily account for this trait in his character, for
                    he had a kind heart and was no slave to Mammon. It probably was the effect of his early education.
                    Mr. Rea was easily teased and had no relish for a practical joke when he was the subject. Cool
                    White, a negro minstrel, once offered a gold pen as a prize for the best conundrum. The offer
                    brought a large audience to the entertainment, and among others present was Mr. Rea. When the
                    exercises were ended White announced that the prize had been awarded to Captain Horace Hull for the
                    following conundrum: 
                        "Why is our sheriff like old Uncle Ned?
                        Because he has no hair on the top of his head."
                    
            
            Captain Hull walked to the platform amid shouts of laughter and cries of "bravo,"
                    to receive the prize. He returned with it down the aisle to where Mr. Rea was seated, and bowing,
                    offered it to him. "Which, which," said the sheriff: "damn it,
                    which?" Captain Hull kept the prize.
            Henry Deputy was a large man, of dark complexion and with black hair and beard. He was affected in
                    his voice and manners and very particular in his dress. He wore shirts with ruffled fronts and was
                    seldom on the street with hands ungloved. He was long in the service of Sheriff Rea, first as clerk
                    and barkeeper in the old hotel that stood on the south side of the public square, and afterwards as
                    deputy sheriff. The late Dr. Cross used to tell a good story on Mr. Deputy. He said he was in the
                    hotel one day when a Kentuckian entered, and addressing Mr. Deputy, said: "How is it that
                    every time I come here Right Rea has a new barkeeper. What is your name, sir?" "My
                    name, sar, is Deputy, sar." "Then, Mr. Deputy, sar, will you please, sar, hand me
                    a cigar? " "With pleasure, sar," and he handed the Kentuckian a cigar,
                    accompanied with a lighted match. "I tell the tale as it was told to me," and with
                         out vouching for its truth, but it is entirely consistent
                    with Mr. Deputy's character and manners. If there was a Beau Brummell in 
                        Madison
                    , it was he, and if he was not a Chesterfield it was for the want of ability rather than
                    desire. While he was deputy sheriff he was the keeper of the jail and lived in the front rooms of
                    the jail building. One night the prisoners made an effort to escape, and had almost succeeded before
                    they were discovered. When Mr. Deputy reached the cell door and found them engaged in picking the
                    wall, he called out in his blandest tones: "Gentlemen, gentlemen, desist from your
                    operations, or I shall be under the disagreeable necessity of putting handcuffs upon you."
                    The "gentlemen" desisted, but whether it was the polite and persuasive manner of
                    the officer or the fear of handcuffs that stayed their hands, is not written in the chronicles of
                    these days. Poor, Deputy! He afterwards became penniless, but his pride did not forsake him. I
                    remember that on a cold day, several years after the time of which I am speaking, he came to me in
                    the Court-house and asked for money to buy a load of wood. His clothes were seedy and threadbare,
                    and as he sat in a chair before the fire, he drew the tail of his well worn overcoat over his knees
                    to hide the rents in his clothing. It was the ruling passion, strong in death.
            
               A
                    PATRIOT.
            At this time Joseph B. Stewart was a student in the law office of Marshall & Glass. He was
                    six feet tall or over, and of gigantic frame; vain and pompous. He was loud of speech, and ever
                    ready to talk in public. On the breaking out of the Mexican war a meeting was held in the
                    Court-house to stimulate enlistments. It was addressed by General 
                        Milton
                     Stapp and John Lyle King, and perhaps by others. Stewart was present, but was not
                    called upon for a speech. After the meeting adjourned and the crowd were leaving the Court-house
                    there were loud calls for Stewart. He mounted the wall which surrounded the public square and
                    commenced to harangue the people. He eloquently descanted upon the glory to be won at the
                    cannon's mouth and upon the beauty of the halls of Montezuma. He closed his speech about as
                    follows: "Business prevents me, my fellow citizens, from drawing my sword in this glorious
                         cause. I would gladly unsheath it in my country's
                    defense, but duty to others forbids. But there are some things I can and will do. Those of you who
                    go to war and die in the service will not be forgotten by me. I will assist in settling your estates
                    on the most reasonable terms. I will advise your widows of their legal rights, and see that your
                    orphans are not defrauded of their patrimonies. These things I will do at a considerable reduction
                    on regular rates for such services." Stewart is now, and for many years has been, one of
                    the most noted and successful of 
                        Washington
                     lobbyists. He has engineered several of the largest jobs ever put through the National
                    Congress, and if the political morals of the country do not improve it is probable that he will
                    engineer many more.
            
               GENERAL
                    MILTON
                    STAPP.
            One of the prominent men of these days was General 
                        Milton
                     Stapp. He was a public spirited man, and was as brave as Julius Cæsar. He
                    had filled many responsible offices, and had filled them well. He was vain of his talents and his
                    honors: so much so that his vanity at times was very marked. He was a soldier in the war of 1812,
                    and he commanded the 
                        Madison
                     brigade in the Irish war. On that occasion he, like 
                        "The King of 
                                France
                            , with forty thousand men,
                        Went, up a hill, and so came down agen."
                    
            
            General Stapp was Mayor of 
                        Madison
                    , and never did the city have a better one. He often arrested offenders on the street
                    and, unaided, marched them to jail. On one occasion he had a difference with a prominent citizen
                    which led to angry words. He pronounced the man a liar and a scoundrel to his face. The prominent
                    citizen retorted: "You dare not repeat those words." General Stapp went to the
                    door of the office he was in and called to several gentlemen who were near. In their presence he
                    said: "I have called you gentlemen to witness that I here pronounce Mr.—a liar
                    and a scoundrel." The insult was not resented. General Stapp was president of the
                    convention held at 
                        Charlestown
                    , in 1849, that nominated William McKee Dunn for Congress. I well remember the speech he
                    made on taking the chair. He complained of his neglect by the Whig  party, and declared himself entitled to more consideration than he had
                    received. He said he had recently returned from 
                        Washington
                     where he went to get an office from General Taylor, but his application was refused. He
                    declared that he experienced great difficulty in getting an interview with Mr. Clayton, the
                    Secretary of State, while others who had done nothing for the parly were admitted without trouble.
                    Continuing in this strain for awhile, he said: "When I first met Mr. Clayton, he inquired
                    who I was. I told him I was General Stapp, of Indiana. He said he had never heard of me before.
                    ‘What, sir,’ said I, ‘never heard of 
                        Milton
                     Stapp, and you the Secretary of State of the 
                        United States
                    ?’" The General had supposed his fame was national, not provincial.
            
               M'KINLEY, NEWBERRY
                    AND
                    MURRAY.
            Three noted men in these days were McKinley, Newberry and Murray. They were demented but harmless.
                    McKinley believed he owned the major part of the city. His possessions also included lands in
                    foreign countries, and sometimes he thought himself the governing power of at least one European
                    monarchy. At times he would saw a load of wood, or perform other manual labor, but usually he was
                    upon the street discoursing upon his riches. Sometimes he would disappear and be gone for awhile,
                    but he would soon return and repeat "his thrice told tale." He was about as well
                    known at 
                        Indianapolis
                     as at 
                        Madison
                    , and I have seen him more than once in that city and at 
                        Franklin
                     with a crowd about him listening to his wondrous stories. He once became very angry
                    with me because I told him that he and Murray (who also claimed to own the city) should settle the
                    question of title before he disposed of some property he was trying to sell. He said Murray was
                    "nothing but a damned old Yankee, and had no sense no how."
            Newberry was a very different man. He approached you as stealthily as a cat, and would be bending
                    over you and whispering in your ear before you were aware of his presence. He talked in a low voice,
                    and his words were generally incoherent and sometimes meaningless. He always had a short gun
                    strapped to his back, and his appearance was anything but inviting. He harmed no one, but the wonder
                    is that he did not. His whispered  words, his wild look and the
                    gun upon his back always inspired me with terror, and made me watch him like a hawk. In his young
                    days he was a prosperous man of business, and he became insane by trying to solve an impossible
                    problem.
            Murray was the worst man of the three, if not the greatest lunatic. He was given to liquor, and was
                    terribly abusive when in his cups. At such times he would walk the streets, and "swear like
                    the army in Flanders." He was particularly abusive of Moody Park, the Mayor of the city,
                    who had often sent him to jail for drunkenness. He believed he was owner of all the property in the
                    city by virtue of a judgment he had recovered for one million of dollars for false imprisonment.
                    This hallucination ever possessed him. Whether drunk or sober he thought himself the lord proprietor
                    of 
                        Madison
                    , and her citizens his tenants. He threatened suits of ejectment against those in
                    possession, and was often exceedingly abusive in his notices to quit. The only way to manage him was
                    by force, and it was frequently employed. He was often committed to jail, and there compelled to
                    remain for months. At that time the Mayor's office was in the row of buildings on Main
                    Cross street known as the buzzard roost, and the jail was immediately south of and back of it. Every
                    morning Murray would be at the window of his cell when the Mayor opened his office. So soon as he
                    saw that official he would commence to curse and abuse him. On these occasions it was his custom to
                    sing a doggerel song, running thus: 
                        "When first King Moody began to reign, began to reign,
                        He bought a peck of buckwheat bran, of buckwheat bran,"
                     and so on for quantity.
            
               CAPTAIN
                    DAVID
                    WHITE.
            No man in his day more deeply impressed himself upon 
                        Madison
                     than David White. He came here in 1846 from 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , where he had been engaged in the wool trade. He was about six feet tall, with rather
                    less than the average flesh for one of his height, had stooped shoulders, and walked with his head
                    well forward and his eyes upon the ground. His life was one of vicissitudes. He was rich to-day and
                    poor to-morrow.  He failed in business in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , in 
                        Madison
                    , in 
                        Iowa
                     and, I believe, in 
                        St. Louis
                    . But failure with him was but a stimulus to new exertions. Most men sink under
                    adversity; not so he. If he touched the bottom it was to reach a foundation for a rebound. He went
                    down under one wave and sprang in triumph upon the top of the next. His energy never gave way and
                    his industry never tired. He was a leader in every public enterprise of his day. 
                        Madison
                     is mainly indebted to him for her gas works, for her marine railway, and for the
                    establishment of one of her insurance companies. He labored hard to connect her with the world by a
                    net-work of railroads, but in this effort he failed. He saw the trade which had been hers directed
                    to other cities, and the sight made him sad. He left us and went elsewhere, but so long as the great
                    enterprises he inaugurated remain he will not be forgotten. It was eminently proper that his mortal
                    remains should be brought here and consigned to rest among a people for whom he had done so much.
            
               WILLIAM
                    G. WHARTON.
            William G. Wharton was a prominent man at the time of which I speak. In stature he was tall and
                    straight. His physique was splendid. In earlier days he had been both a major of militia and a
                    justice of the peace. Apropos to this: Some years previous to this time he was in 
                        New York
                    , and meeting General Stapp at the Astor House he was prevailed upon to call upon
                    General Scott. Major Wharton was not given to running after great men, nor to crowding himself
                    anywhere uninvited; therefore, it was with reluctance that he consented to call upon the hero of
                    Lundy's Lane. But the persistency of General Stapp prevailed, and the two went to the rooms
                    of General Scott. General Stapp approached the great captain and said: "General Scott,
                    allow me to present my friend, Major Wharton." "I am happy to know you,
                    Major," said the General; "to what part of the service do you belong? "
                    "I am an officer by brevet," said the Major; "I am from the great West
                    where every man is a major or (bowing to Stapp) a general." Major Wharton used to tell this
                    story with great gusto.
            At this time, deeds signed by married women, to be valid had  to
                    be acknowledged by the wives, separate and apart from and without the hearing of their husbands.
                    Major Wharton was a notary public, as also was William McKee Dunn. The latter took the
                    acknowledgment of a deed from Wharton and his wife and inadvertently signed the Major's
                    name to the certificate instead of his own. Judge Billy Hendricks saw this deed in the
                    Recorder's office and determined to have some fun out of the mistake. Observing Wharton on
                    the street he called him to the office. "How is it, Major," said the Judge,
                    "that you certify under your oath of office that you have examined your wife separate and
                    apart from and without the hearing of her husband? " "What do you mean?
                    "asked the Major. "I mean," answered the Judge, "that you have
                    done this thing, and here is the evidence of it." With that he proceeded to read as
                    follows:
            "STATE
                    OF
                    INDIANA, COUNTY
                    OF
                    JEFFERSON, ss:
            "Before me, the undersigned, a notary public within and for said county, this day personally
                    came William G. Wharton and Eliza Wharton, his wife, the grantors in the foregoing deed, and
                    acknowledged the signing and sealing of the same to be their voluntary act and deed for the uses and
                    purposes therein named. And the said Eliza Wharton, wife of the said William G. Wharton, being by me
                    examined separate and apart from and without the hearing of her said husband, declared that she,
                    signed and sealed the same of her own free will and accord, and without any fear of or compulsion
                    from her said husband.
            (Signed) "W. G. WHARTON, Notary Public."
            "Go and get Newberry's gun and strap it on my back," said the astonished
                    Major.
            Major Wharton was a devoted Mason. He was a Methodist, but he placed his lodge above his church. One
                    day he came into the office of the Firemen and Mechanics Insurance Company and applied to the late
                    Caleb T. Lodge, then president of the company, for a permit to smoke meat in his warehouse, on which
                    that company had written a policy. There was a controversy about the rate to be charged, when
                    Wharton petulantly  said: "I'll have nothing
                    to do with your company; all insurance companies are swindling concerns." "I am
                    surprised, Squire," said Mr. Lodge, "that a good Methodist, like yourself, should
                    belong to a swindling concern." (Mr. Wharton was a stockholder in the company.)
                    "Don't quote Methodism to me," responded the Squire; "the other
                    day I wanted some shingles and went to the yard of Mr.—, a brother Methodist, to buy
                    them. I selected the shingles I wanted and ordered them sent to my house. Those received were not
                    those I bought, but were greatly inferior. Had I bought the shingles of old man Todd—a
                    hell-bound sinner—I should have received what I bargained for. He is a good Mason, and
                    show me a good Mason and I'll show you a good man."
            
               REV. GAMALIEL. TAYLOR.
            Gamaliel Taylor, familiarly called "Uncle Gam," was known to every one in the city.
                    His form was lithe and erect, although his locks were white and deep furrows were in his face. He
                    was both a minister of the gospel and a minister of justice. On Sunday he dispensed gospel truths
                    with a pure hand, and during the week he dispensed justice with an even one. He united in wedlock
                    young men and maidens, and when death came he preached the funerals of the fathers and mothers. Gold
                    and silver he had none, but he was passing rich in the love of all who knew him. His memory, like
                    sweet incense, perfumes this hall as I speak, and if the spirits of the blest are permitted to leave
                    their heavenly abode that of the old patriarch, so dear to us all, is hovering o'er us now.
            
               MADISON'S
                    CONTRIBUTIONS
                    TO
                    THE
                    MEXICAN
                    WAR.
            In May, 1846, war was declared between the 
                        United States
                     and 
                        Mexico
                    . The war feeling at 
                        Madison
                     ran high. Two companies of soldiers were formed and organized at once. The first was
                    the 
                        Washington
                     Guards, commanded by William Ford, who had for several years been the captain of an
                    independent military company. His lieutenants were Samuel G. Cowden, J. P. A. M. Channey and John M.
                    Lord. The second company, the 
                        Madison
                     Rifles, was commanded by Thomas L. Sullivan, who had for lieutenants Horace Hull, John
                    Harrignton  and Americus O. Hough. War not having been
                    anticipated by the Federal Government, no provision had been made for clothing and feeding the
                    soldiers. To meet the emergency the 
                        Madison
                     Branch Bank, then under the presidency of Mr. J. F. D. Lanier, tendered Governor
                    Whitcomb a sum of money sufficient to clothe and feed the 
                        Madison
                     soldiers until they were mustered into service. The Governor having made other
                    arrangements declined the offer, but his action in the premises was such as to occasion much
                    criticism at the time. The 
                        Madison
                     companies went into camp at New 
                        Albany
                    , and on the 24th of June were mustered into the service of the 
                        United States
                    . They formed part of the Third Indiana regiment commanded by Colonel James H. Lane, and
                    their members fought valiantly at 
                        Buena Vista
                    . None of the 
                        Madison
                     boys were killed in that sanguinary battle, but the anxiety of their friends at home as
                    to their fate was intense. Several members of these companies died in 
                        Mexico
                     from accident and disease, but none were killed in battle. The next summer, having
                    served out the term of their enlistment, the survivors returned home and were discharged.
            In the summer and fall of 1847 the Fifth Indiana regiment was formed. It rendezvoused at 
                        Madison
                    , its camp being in the western part of the city, near the bend in the railroad. 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Vernon
                     contributed a company to this regiment. It was commanded by Captain Horace Hull, who
                    had for his lieutenants DeWitt C. Ritch, John M. Lord and John M. Lattimore. This regiment never was
                    in battle, but one day it came so close to Santa Anna that, in his hurry to get away, he left behind
                    his wooden leg. It became a trophy of the war and was highly prized by the Hoosier soldiers.
            It was by the action of these three companies of 
                        Madison
                     men and others of like patriotism that the 
                        United States
                     conquered a peace with 
                        Mexico
                     and added to her territory a golden empire. By the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, she
                    became possessed of the richest mineral lands in the world, and surely she owes a debt of gratitude
                    to the brave men who made it possible for her to obtain them. The denial to these men of a
                    reasonable pension  gives color to the charge sometimes made
                    that republics are ungrateful.
            
               THE
                    CROOKED
                    CREEK
                    FLOOD.
            Early in September, 1846, Crooked creek overflowed its banks, whereby eleven persons were drowned and
                    over $100,000 worth of property destroyed. The flood was in daylight, otherwise the loss
                    of life would have been much greater. Skiffs were taken from the river to the creek, and the lives
                    of many persons thereby saved. At that time Crooked creek flowed through a culvert under the
                    railroad track. This culvert was completely blocked with houses that had been swept from their
                    foundations. The pent up water overflowed the banks of the creek and submerged the adjacent bottom
                    lands. The woolen mill of Whitney & Hendricks, the oil mill of Jacob Shuh, a large part of
                    the pork-house of Mitchel & McNaughten, and several dwelling houses were borne away by the
                    raging water. The bodies of the drowned were recovered and inquests held upon them; and to
                    illustrate the public economy of those times, it may be proper to say that the Board of County
                    Commissioners considered the holding of these inquests unnecessary, and objected to paying their
                    cost out of the county treasury.
            
               A MURDER.
            The current of events ran smoothly in these days, for 
                        Madison
                     was a peaceable city. Burglaries and other high crimes were uncommon, and homicides
                    were almost unknown. There was, however, one murder committed in 
                        Madison
                    , and it created intense excitement at the time. It was the killing of Joseph Howard by
                    Henry Holtzclaw. The Holtzclaws—William, the father, and Henry, Eli and Thomas, the sons,
                    came from 
                        Kentucky
                     and opened a wholesale grocery store on West street. Thomas created a disturbance one
                    Sunday evening at Wesley Chapel, and the next day a warrant for his arrest was issued, and placed in
                    the hands of Howard, who was a constable. Howard went to the Holtzclaw store to make the arrest,
                    where he got into a personal difficulty with the father and the sons. He was a strong man as well as
                    a courageous one, and seizing Thomas by the collar of his coat, he dragged him out of the  house. He was followed by the father and brothers, and when in
                    the middle of the street was shot by Henry and mortally wounded. The Holtzclaws were arrested and
                    admitted to bail, and then fled the country. Sometime afterwards Eli was rearrested in the South and
                    brought here by a brother of his victim. By this time two of the most important witnesses were gone.
                    Langtree had been drowned and Weide had removed to 
                        Minnesota
                    ; so their testimony could not be had. Holtzclaw took a change of venue to an adjoining
                    county, and in the absence of these witnesses was tried and acquitted.
            
               PUBLIC
                    SENTIMENT.
            Situated on the line between the free and the slave States, 
                        Madison
                     was a quasi
                    
                        Southern city
                    . The opinions and sentiments of her inhabitants were moulded, to a great extent, by the
                    opinions and sentiments of their 
                        Kentucky
                     neighbors. Runaway slaves were hunted over the hills and through the valleys of
                    Jefferson. The abolition settlement in 
                        Lancaster
                     township was considered a plague-spot on the body politic. The Hoyts, the Nelsons and
                    the Tibbettses of that neighborhood, although honorable and peaceable men, were tabooed because they
                    believed in the equality of all men before the law. The Euletherian school at College Hill received
                    the maledictions of the people, because in it the fountain of knowledge was as free to the negro as
                    to the white man. Dwelling houses which had been erected near this college for the use of colored
                    students were burned and destroyed. It is no wonder that in a community where Southern sentiments
                    were so common the duel should be considered a proper method for settling disputes. Although we
                    never had a duel here, we had several narrow escapes from meetings under the code. John Abram
                    Hendricks challenged John Lyle King, Joseph G. Marshall challenged Jesse D. Bright, Michael G.
                    Bright challenged John Brough, and Robert S. Sproule challenged John A. Hendricks. The difficulty
                    between Messrs. Hendricks and King occasioned much feeling in the city. They were both young men of
                    promise and were sons of leading citizens. Mr. Hendricks had been an officer in the regular army,
                    but had resigned and come home. Mr. King, in a communication to the 
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                    
                    
                    Journal, over the signature of "Ion," mentioned this fact in the
                    following words:
            "Captain John A. Hendricks, formerly of the 
                        United States
                     Infantry, but now of the peace establishment, has resigned his commission and returned
                    home.
            
                    "‘Farewell the plumed troop and the big wars
                    That make ambition virtue! O, farewell!
                    Farewell the neighing steed, and the shrill trump,
                    The spirit-stirring drum, th' ear-piercing life,
                    The royal banner, and all quality,
                    Pride, pomp and circumstance of glorious war.
                    And, O, you mortal engines, whose rude throats
                    The immortal Jove's dread clamors counterfeit,
                    Farewell! Othello's occupation's gone!’
                
            "Ill health and an inability to weather the Mexican climate are the causes, I hear, assigned
                    for his return."
            Captain Hendricks was offended at this reference to him and to his return, and published in the 
                        Madison
                    
                    Banner, over his own name, a letter, in which he pronounced
                    "Ion" a liar and a coward. Mr. King, still maintaining his incognito, replied in a bitter letter, in which he quoted the couplet from Hudibras, 
                        "For those that fly may fight again,
                        Which he can never do that's slain,"
                     and said his name was with the Banner editor and was at the service of
                    the Captain. Captain Hendricks went to 
                  Bedford,
                            Kentucky
               , and from there wrote Mr. King
                    a challenge and sent it by a Mr. Rowan. Mr. King refused acceptance of the challenge, giving as a
                    reason for the refusal that he was not on equal terms with his enemy; that his acceptance would
                    subject him to the penalty of the law of Indiana, while Mr. Hendricks would escape such penalty by
                    reason of having written the challenge in another State. Upon receiving this reply Mr. Hendricks
                    came to 
                        Milton
                    , opposite this city, and wrote another challenge, without naming the place where it was
                    written. This paper was delivered to Mr. King by Abram W. Hendricks, Esq., and the invitation
                    declined because it lacked a venue. By this time the difficulty was widely known, and coming to the
                    knowledge of  Governor Hendricks and Victor King, the fathers of
                    the belligerents, they interfered and prevented a hostile meeting.
            The difficulty between Messrs. Marshall and Bright originated at a political meeting which took place
                    at Ritchey's Mills in this county. Inasmuch as I wrote an account of this matter some years
                    ago for the 
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         Journal, which embodied all I know about it, I shall say nothing further of it
                    here.
            The trouble between Mr. Bright and Mr. Brough grew out of a controversy in relation to selling the
                    State's interest in the 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     Railroad. Mr. Bright challenged Mr. Brough, but, instead of accepting the challenge,
                    the latter published it in the 
                  
                            Madison
                         Banner with the reasons for his refusal. In speaking of this difficulty the
                    late George D. Prentice said in his paper that most persons would think Mr. Bright would have the
                    advantage of Mr. Brough in a duel, on account of the great size of the latter, but, in fact, the
                    advantage would be on the other side, as it was doubtful if the pistol was then made which could
                    send a bullet to Mr. Brough's vitals. He was a behemoth in size.
            The difficulty between Messrs. Sproule and Hendricks grew out of political differences, and was not
                    generally known. Sproule was the challenger, and he sent the hostile message by Michael Steele
                    Bright. Nothing came of it, and the matter was soon adjusted.
            
               THE
                    GOLDEN
                    ERA.
            This was 
                        Madison
                    's golden era. She was the entrepol of the merchandise sold
                    and consumed in Indiana. She was the gate at which the traveler entered the State. She had three
                    wholesale dry goods houses, and as many wholesale groceries and boot and shoe establishments. She
                    was one of the largest pork-packing points in the country. No less than four establishments were
                    engaged in the killing and packing of hogs, one of them being the largest then in the world. She had
                    a starch manufactory on Crooked creek and a glue factory just outside the city limits. She had
                    several of the largest flouring mills west of the Allegheny mountains. She had
                    three large iron foundries, a brass foundry, a boiler manufactory, and many other establishments of
                    great value. She had a chamber of commerce, a reading-room and a public library. In addition to the
                         magnificent 
                        Pike
                     and the Ben 
                        Franklin
                    , which landed daily at her wharfs, she had daily lines of steam packets to 
                        Cincinnati
                     and to 
                        Louisville
                    , and a regular one to 
                        Frankfort
                    . Her wharfs were covered with hogsheads of sugar and molasses from 
                        New Orleans
                    , and with boxes and bales of merchandise from the Atlantic slope. Her streets were
                    crowded with men who came to buy her merchandise and her manufactured goods. Her citizens were
                    jostled on the sidewalks by strangers who came hither to view her greatness, or to enter Indiana
                    through her portals. Such was 
                        Madison
                     from 1844 to 1852, when the zenith of her prosperity was reached.
            
               HER
                    PRESENT
                    POSITIONS.
            Although 
                        Madison
                     is not now what she then was, she is a city of which her people may well be proud. Her
                    material interests are great and her memories are glorious. Her starch has a market in the old
                    world; her saddle-trees are sold in every State of the Union, and her furniture and her steam
                    engines, are floated down the beautiful river that flows at her feet to distant markets. The men she
                    has educated and sent out from her midst have played no mean part in the drama of life. The 
                        Madison
                     colony at the State capital is noted for the intelligence and business worth of its men
                    and the beauty and goodness of its women. Many of the leading men of 
                        Chicago
                     were reared in your city, and the same is true of Saint Louis. Go where you will in the
                    West you will find 
                        Madison
                     men. In the East, too, she is represented, for the head of one of the most eminent
                    banking houses in America∗ was a resident of 
                        Madison
                     when I first saw it. The late Chief Justice of 
                        Oregon
                     was a 
                        Madison
                     boy, and Justice Peck, of the Supreme Court of 
                        Iowa
                    , is an old time Madisonian. "I am a Roman citizen "was the proudest
                    boast of the dweller on the banks of the Tiber, and "I am a citizen of 
                        Madison
                    " should be the proudest boast of every one whose home is in the healthy and
                    beautiful city under the hills.
            
               
                  ∗J. F. D. Lanier.
            
         
         
         
            The Vincennes Library Company: A Cultural Institution in Pioneer Indiana
            
                    Edited by J. Robert Constantine
                    ∗
                
            The two previous installments of the minutes of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Library Company traced the history of this organization from its founding in July,
                    1806, through the major crises which seriously threatened its survival, the War of 1812 and the
                    Panic of 1819. Fortunately the company did not share the destiny common to such early cultural
                    agencies—an inability to sustain itself during crises—and the period from 1823
                    to 1838, covered in the following installment, was one of recovery, renewed vigor, and growth.
            In part this revitalization was related to the improvement of the national economy in which 
                        Vincennes
                     shared in a number of ways. Its population doubled between 1820 and 1840 (from 1,029 to
                    2,131), the steamboat made the city a mercantile center on the 
                        Wabash
                    , and it experienced the birth pangs of industrialization by the founding of the Bonner
                    Cotton Factory (1825) and the Eagle Glove Factory (1830). The city's economic growth had
                    its cultural parallel in the opening of a score of parochial, private, and public academies,
                    seminaries, and institutes, and in an abortive attempt to establish a medical school. Also during
                    the thirties its theatre company was reorganized and the 
                        Vincennes
                     Lyceum was founded.
            Some credit is also due to the dedication and ability of certain individuals who served as company
                    officers. One such man was John Cleves Symmes Harrison, company librarian from 1823 to 1830, whose
                    obituary notice in the 
                        Vincennes
                    
                    Gazette (November 13, 1830) stated that "had it not been aided by his
                    constant and untiring exertions … the Library Company of this place would have
                    deteriorated and probably have been dissolved."
            Whether for economic reasons or for the quality of its leadership, by the late 1830's the 
                        Vincennes
                     Library Company had survived the early crises and had entered its period of maximum
                    service and benefit to its members and to the community.
            
               
                  ∗ J. Robert Constantine is professor of history at Indiana
                        State University, 
                            Terre Haute
                        . The text of the 
                            Vincennes
                         Library Company minutes which follows is printed from a photocopy of the original
                        minute book. Minutes for the periods 1806–1817 and 1817–1823 appeared in
                        J. Robert Constantine (ed.), "The 
                            Vincennes
                         Library Company: A Cultural Institution in Pioneer Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, LXI (December, 1965), 305–89; LXII (June,
                        1966), 121–54. For a summary account of the company from its establishment to its
                        dissolution in 1883 see Constantine, Indiana Magazine of History, LXI,
                        305–20.
            
            
            Saturday January 10th 18241
            
            At a special meeting of the Directors of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Library Present: John Badollet, Elias McNamee, Jacob Kuykendall, Laurence S. Shuler.
            The President being absent Docr. Kuykendall was chosen President pro tempore, Whereupon the Librarian
                    presented the following Books which he offered to the Board, at the prices annexed, Viz.:
            
               
                  Ramsay's 
                                United States
                            
                  
                  3 vols.
                  3.75
               
               
                  Gillie's History of the World
                  3 do.
                  5.50
               
               
                  Ali Beys Travels 2 vols. & 1 vol. of plates
                  
                  5.50
               
               
                  Delaplaine's Repository
                  1 vol.
                  4.00
               
               
                  Military & Naval Letters
                  1 do.
                  3.00
               
               
                  First Settlers of 
                                Virginia
                            
                  
                  1 do.
                  1.50
               
               
                  Life of Comodore 
                                Decatur
                            
                  
                  1 do.
                  1.00
               
               
                  
                  
                  $24.25
               
            
            Resolved unanimously, that the said books be received, and that the Librarian be allowed therefor, a
                    credit in his Account Current with the Library, of Twenty four dolls. & twenty five cents.
            
               
                  1 In editing these minutes every effort has been made to reproduce
                        faithfully the spelling and capitalization of the handwritten document. The spacing of the
                        original minutes has been somewhat modified and standardized. For example, space limitations
                        have prompted the listing of members present at a meeting, results of elections, and books
                        recommended for purchase in series instead of the columns which usually appear in the minutes.
                        Paragraphs have been indented consistently even though in the document many were not indented.
                        Frequently items of business—especially motions and resolutions—were
                        recorded on separate successively indented lines; these have been reproduced in standard
                        paragraph form. The openings and closings of minutes and locations of headings also have been
                        standardized. Punctuation has been reproduced as it appeared with the following exceptions:
                        periods have been added where necessary at the ends of paragraphs, closings of minutes, and
                        after abbreviations and initials; commas and semicolons have been added when columns of names
                        are reproduced in series; a colon has been added after the word "present" when
                        it precedes a list of members attending a meeting, after the word "viz." when
                        it introduces a series, and occasionally where it clarifies the intent of the secretary; decimal
                        points have been inserted where they were missing in prices; and hyphens have been used
                        consistently between inclusive numbers in lists of numbered books. Flourishes have been omitted
                        or translated as periods; underlining of signatures, dates, and the like has been considered a
                        flourish except where it clearly indicates italics. Raised letters have been brought down to the
                        line. Unintentional repetitions of words or phrases have been omitted, as have marks in the
                        margins and words, phrases, or subtotals used in making transitions from one page to the next in
                        the original minutes. No attempt has been made to give biographical data on individuals whose
                        names appear in these minutes.
            
            
            Ordered, That the following be the appraised value of said Books:
            
               
                  No. 1112–14
                  Ramsay's 
                                United States
                            
                  
                  $5.75
               
               
                  1107–9
                  Gillie's History of the World
                  7.75
               
               
                  1110–11
                  Ali Beys Travels
                  7.75
               
               
                  1106
                  Delaplaine's Repository
                  6.00
               
               
                  1105
                  Military & Naval Letters
                  4.00
               
               
                  1104
                  First Settlers of 
                                Virginia
                            
                  
                  2.00
               
               
                  1103
                  Life of Comodore 
                                Decatur
                            
                  
                  1.50
               
            
            And the Board adjourned.
            Monday, February 2nd 1824.
            Annual meeting of the Shareholders, Present: John Badollet, Elias McNamee, William Lindsay Senr.,
                    Henry D. Wheeler, John F. Snapp Admr. of Abrm. F. Snapp, Jacob Kuykendall, Jacob Call, J. C. S.
                    Harrison.
            The President being absent, John Badollet was chosen President pro tempore.
            On motion of Doctr. McNamee, Resolved that, the Share or Shares of the following individuals be, and
                    they are hereby forfeited; viz.: Fisher & McGee, William Henry [Harrison?], Jones &
                    Dubois, Edward M. Smith, William C. Vandeventer & William D. Shepherd; and that all sums
                    appearing to their debit be, and they are hereby remitted.
            On Motion of Mr. Harrison, Resolved that the annual contributions upon the Share, owned by the late
                    Charles Smith be suspended for the term of five years, to commence from the first day of January
                    next; unless the Executors of the said Smith, shall, sooner, think proper to allow his children to
                    take books from the Library; at which time the contributions shall recommence.
            The Shareholders, then proceeded to the election of Officers for the ensuing year; when, upon
                    counting the ballots, it appeared that the following persons were duly elected, Viz.: Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    , President; John Badollet, Elias McNamee, Lawrence S. Shuler, Jacob Kuykendall, Samuel
                    T. Scott, Directors; J. C. S. Harrison, Librarian.
            On Motion, Resolved that, this meeting do now adjourn, to meet again on Monday, the 1st day of March
                    next, at 2 O'clock P. M.
            
            Tuesday 9th March 1824.
            Special Meeting of the Directors of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Library Present: J. Kuykendall, J. Badollet, E. McNamee, Directors.
            The President being absent, Doctr. E. McNamee was called to the chair; When, On motion, the following
                    Resolutions were adopted:
            Whereas, on the 30th of July 1820, Doctr. Robt. Allison, now decd., purchased of Noah Purcell a Share
                    in this Library, and whereas this fact being unknown to the Librarian, the legal Representatives of
                    the said Allison, were, for about two years, debarred the use of the said share; therefore,
                    Resolved, that the Librarian allow a credit of four dollars, upon the Account of said Allison, it
                    being the Contributions charged for the years 1822 & 1823; and further that the Librarian be
                    directed to cause the suit, instituted for the recovery of the said four dollars, to be withdrawn,
                    and pay the costs of said suit.
            Resolved that the Librarian be authorised to suspend all proceedings for the recovery of sums, due by
                    Francis Vigo and the estate of Christopher Wyant deceased, until the next meeting of the
                    Shareholders.
            John McClure presented the following books, which were received at the prices annexed; viz.:
            
               
                  No. 1126–7
                  Federalist,
                  2 Vols.
                  $3.00
               
               
                  198–9
                  Ossian's Poems
                  2 Vols.
                  2.50
               
               
                  1118
                  Montagu's Reflections
                  1 Vol.
                  1.50
               
               
                  1115
                  Hutcheson on Beauty &c.
                  1 "
                  1.00
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  $8.00
               
            
            Resolved that the Librarian, permit John McClure to subscribe for one Share in this Library, and
                    credit him with Eight dollars, being the amount allowed for the above books.
            G. R. C. Sullivan presented the following books, which were received at the prices annexed, viz.:
            
               
                  No. 185
                  Resources of the British Empire
                  1 Vol.
                  $1.00
               
               
                  186
                  
                     
                                Campbell
                            's Lectures
                  1 "
                  1.00
               
               
                  1116–17
                  Cutbush's Chemistry
                  2 Vols.
                  2.00
               
               
                  1124–5
                  Memoirs of Marmontel
                  2 Vols.
                  1.50
               
               
                  210
                  Ladies' Preceptor
                  1 Vol.
                  .75
               
               
                  1121
                  Moral & Political Truth
                  1 Vol.
                  1.00
               
               
               
                  1120
                  Lectures on Comets
                  1 "
                  1.00
               
               
                  1119
                  Missionary a Tale
                  1 "
                  .50
               
               
                  1122
                  Mnemonika
                  1 "
                  1.25
               
               
                  1123
                  Devout Exercises
                  1 "
                  .50
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  $10.50
               
            
            Resolved that the Librarian (at the request of Mr. Sullivan) credit the account of the late Ephraim
                    Jourdan, with the sum of Six dollars; the account of Henry V. Sullivan with Two dollars, eighteen
                    & 3/4 cents; and that the remainder, Two dollars, thirty one & 1/4 cents be entered
                    to the credit of his own Account.
            Resolved that the appraised value of the aforesaid books be the prices at which they were received.
            And the Board adjourned.
            J. C. S. Harrison Librarian.
            Wednesday, 7th April 1824.
            Special Meeting of the President & Directors, Present: Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    , President; John Badollet, Elias McNamee, Directors.
            On Motion, Resolved that the Librarian be, and he is hereby authorized to cause the execution, issued
                    against Robert Buntin Senr. for the recovery of balances due to the institution, to be suspended,
                    for Sixty days and no longer.
            And the board adjourned.
            J. C. S. Harrison Libn.
            Saturday 29th May 1824.
            Special meeting of the President & Directors of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Library, Present: Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    , Prest.; John Badollet, Elias McNamee, Directors.
            Ordered that, the Librarian purchase of Samuel Tomlinson, the following Books, at the prices hereto
                    annexed, Viz.:
            
               
                  No. 1128–9
                  St. Ronan's Well
                  2 Vols.
                  $1.33
               
               
                  1130–1
                  Pilot
                  2 "
                  2.34
               
               
                  1132–3
                  Shae Wife
                  2 "
                  1.33
               
               
                  1134–5
                  Knickerbockers 
                                New York
                            
                  
                  2 Vols.
                  3.67
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  $8.67
               
            
            
            Also the following books of William Burtch, at the annexed prices, Viz.:
            
               
                  No. 1136–78
                  Albigenses
                  3
                  Vols.
                  $2.27
               
               
                  1139–40
                  Highways & By-ways
                  2
                  "
                  1.30
               
               
                  1141–2∗
                  
                  Duke Christian
                  2
                  "
                  2.11
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  $5.68
               
            
            
               
                  ∗ Nos. 1148 & 1144 are the two vols. of
                        "Napoleon in Exile," heretofore omitted.
            
            And the Board adjourned.
            J. C. S. Harrison Libn.
            Saturday 8th January 1825
            At a stated meeting of the Directors of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Library Present: John Badollet, Jacob Kuykendall, Elias McNamee, Directors.
            On Motion, Ordered that the Librarian credit the acct. of William Lindsey with the sum of two
                    dollars; it being the contribution charged for the year 1822, during which year he was deprived of
                    the use of his share in consequence of a resolution adopted by the Shareholders on the 4 Feby. 1822.
            On Motion Resolved that the Librarian, be appointed a committee, to wait on G. R. C. Sullivan, (late
                    Librarian) and endeavour to effect a Settlement, of the said Sullivans account, with the Library;
                    and that said committee report to the Board at their next meeting.— & The Board
                    adjourned.
            J. C. S. Harrison Libn.
            Wednesday February 2d 1825
            Special meeting of the President and Directors of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Library, Present: Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    , Prest.; John Badollet, Jacob Kuykendall, Elias McNamee, Directors.
            Ordered that the following Books be purchased for the Library: Livy translated by Baker; Polybius
                    translated by Hampton; Caesar translated by Bladon; Botta's American Revolution;
                    Hallam's History of the Middle Ages; Fox's History of the reign of James 2nd;
                    Godwins History of 
                        England
                    ; Chalmer's History of Queen Mary; Blackwell's History of  Augustus; Abbe Clavigero's History of 
                        Mexico
                    ; Colden's History of the Five Nations; Buffon's Natural History;
                    Barton, on the origin of the N. American Indians; Barton's Memoirs of Rittenhouse; Claytons
                    Life of Alexander the Great; Memoirs of the Bastile; Las Cassas Journal; Count Bertrand's
                    campaigns of Napoleon; Longs Expedition to the Rockey Mountains;
                    Hobhouse's Journey through 
                  Albania, Greece
                &c.; An Excursion through the U. States and 
                        Canada
                     during the years 1822 & 1823 by an English Gentleman; Griscom's tour
                    in Europe; Parry's Voyages towards the North Pole; Hearne's Travels towards the
                    North Pole; Silliman's Journal of travels in Europe; Adam's Narrative of his
                    Shipwreck, and residence at Tombuctoo; Don Ulloa's Travels in South America;
                    Schoolcraft's Works; Cuiviers Essay on the Theory of the Earth; Lord Littletons Dialogues
                    of the Dead; Volney's Lectures on the Study of History; Patronage, by Miss Edgeworth;
                    Hungarian Brothers; Bracebridge Hall by Washington Irvin; Moore's Lalla Rookh;
                    Shenstone's Poems; Continuation of Niles Weekly Register from the 15th vol. inclusive to
                    the present time, half bound &c.; 
                        Campbell
                    's New Monthly Magazine; Life of General Lafayette by Robt. Wain Jr.; Poinsetts
                    Notes on 
                        Mexico
                    .
            Ordered, That the Librarian furnish Mr. Samuel Tomlinson with a list of the above books, and desire
                    him to purchase them for the Library in the Eastern Cities; and, that, for this purpose, the
                    Librarian pay over to Mr. Tomlinson all the money he may have in his hands belonging to the Library,
                    and take a receipt for the same.
            Ordered That the Librarian be, and he is hereby authorized, to dispose of, to the Bruceville Library
                    Company, the following books at the prices annexed, and allow a credit upon the same:
            
               
                  
                     ∗No. 1085 Letters from 
                                Paris
                            
                  
                  1 vol.
                  2.00
               
               
                  133 & 134 
                                Knox
                            's Essays
                  2 "
                  1.50
               
               
                  1081 Chateaubriand's Recollections
                  
                  0.75
               
               
                  90 Confession of Faith
                  
                  0.25
               
               
                  
                  
                  $4.50
               
            
            And the Board adjourned.
            J. C. S. Harrison Libn.
            
               [∗] this number replaced by "commercial
                        Regulations"
            
            
            Monday February 7th 1825
            Annual Meeting of the Share holders of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Library Present: Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    , President; Jacob Kuykendall, Elias McNamee, John Badollet, Samuel T. Scott, Richard P.
                    Price, General W. Johnston, Henry D. Wheeler, Daniel Smith, John Bruner, A. Massey Admr. of Robt.
                    Allison decd., John Law; J. C. S. Harrison, Librarian.
            On motion of Mr. Law Resolved, that the Directors of the Library be and they are hereby authorized to
                    make Sale of such books in the Library as they may deem advisable, and that the funds arrising from
                    the Sale of the same, be applied under their direction to the purchase of New books.
            On Motion of Mr. Johnston Resolved that upon the receipt of the books about to be purchased, the
                    Librarian cause the present catalogue to be corrected in print for the benefit of the shareholders.
            On Motion of Mr. Law Resolved that the Directors be instructed to subscribe for the North American
                    Review.
            On Motion of Mr. Johnston, Resolved, That the contributions on all shares holden by the heirs of
                    deceased Shareholders, be suspended until they or their legal Representatives, respectively call for
                    and make use of the books; but that the provisions of this resolution shall only extend to such
                    heirs, as shall either in person or by their Legal Representatives apply for the benefit of the
                    same, and only upon payment of all arrearages shall their application be admitted.
            The Shareholders then proceeded to the election of Officers for the ensuing year; when upon counting
                    the ballots it appeared that the following persons were duly elected, Viz.: Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    , President; Jacob Kuykendall, John Badollet, Elias McNamee, Samuel Judah, L. S. Shuler,
                    Directors; J. C. S. Harrison, Librarian.
            On Motion the meeting then adjourned.
            J. C. S. Harrison Libn.
            May [1825]
            At a special meeting of the Directors of the Library Present: Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    , President; John Badollet, Elias McNamee, Directors.
            
            The Librarian presented the following books, which were purchased by Mr. Tomlinson, under an order
                    from the Board on the 2d February 1825, at the prices annexed. Viz.:
            
               
                  1 vol.
                  Hamptons Polybius
                  3.75
               
               
                  1 "
                  Memoirs of Rittenhouse
                  2.00
               
               
                  4 "
                  New Monthly Magazine
                  10.00
               
               
                  1 "
                  Tales of a Traveller
                  4.40
               
               
                  2 "
                  Hallams Middle Ages
                  3.25
               
               
                  2 "
                  Longs Expedition
                  7.00
               
               
                  2 "
                  Longs Second Expedition
                  5.00
               
               
                  1 "
                  Notes on 
                                Mexico
                            
                  
                  2.121/2
                  
               
               
                  4 "
                  Las Cases Journal
                  6.00
               
               
                  1 "
                  Adams Narative
                  1.25
               
               
                  1 "
                  Parrys Journal
                  2.00
               
               
                  3 vols.
                  Bottas American Revolution
                  7.00
               
               
                  6 "
                  Bakers Livy
                  9.00
               
               
                  1 "
                  Cuviers Theory of the Earth
                  2.25
               
               
                  3 "
                  Clavigero's History of 
                                Mexico
                            
                  
                  4.50
               
               
                  1 "
                  Fox's History of James 2d
                  1.50
               
               
                  2 "
                  Hobhouse's 
                                Albania
                             &c. with an Atlas
                  5.00
               
               
                  2 "
                  Griscoms Year in Europe
                  2.80
               
               
                  3 "
                  Sillimans Journal
                  3.00
               
               
                  2 "
                  Bracebridge Hall
                  2.75
               
               
                  1 "
                  Belzoni in 
                                Egypt
                            
                  
                  1.00
               
               
                  1 "
                  Lalla Rookh
                  .75
               
               
                  2 "
                  Lionel 
                                Lincoln
                            
                  
                  1.75
               
               
                  2 "
                  Rothelan
                  .88
               
               
                  2 "
                  Marriage
                  .87
               
               
                  
                  
                  $89.821/2
                  
               
               
                  Proportion of box containing books $1.00. carriage $10
                  11.00
               
               
                  Total amount of Mr. Tomlinson's Bill
                  $100.821/2
                  
               
            
            Ordered That the above Books be received, and that they be numbered and appraised as follows, Viz.:
            
               
                  No. 1145
                  Hamptons Polybius
                  5.00
               
               
                  1146
                  Memoirs of Rittenhouse
                  3.00
               
               
                  1147–50
                  New Monthly Magazine
                  12.00
               
               
                  1151
                  Tales of a Traveller
                  5.00
               
               
                  1152–53
                  Hallams Middle Ages
                  5.00
               
               
                  1154–55
                  Longs Expedition
                  8.00
               
               
                  1156–57
                  Longs Second Expedition
                  6.00
               
               
                  1158
                  Notes on 
                                Mexico
                            
                  
                  2.50
               
               
               
                  1159–62
                  Las Cases Journal
                  8.00
               
               
                  1163
                  Adams Narative
                  1.25
               
               
                  1164
                  Life of General Harrison
                  2.00
               
               
                  1165
                  Parrys Journal
                  3.00
               
               
                  1166–68
                  Botta's American Revolution
                  9.00
               
               
                  1169–74
                  Bakers Livy
                  12.00
               
               
                  1175
                  Cuiviers Theory of the Earth
                  2.50
               
               
                  1176–78
                  Clavigero's History of 
                                Mexico
                            
                  
                  5.00
               
               
                  1179
                  Fox's History of James 2d
                  2.00
               
               
                  1180–81
                  Hobhouse's 
                                Albania
                            
                  
                  6.00
               
               
                  1182–83
                  Griscoms Year in Europe
                  3.00
               
               
                  1184–86
                  Sillimans Journal
                  3.50
               
               
                  1187–88
                  Bracebridge Hall
                  3.00
               
               
                  1189
                  Belzoni in 
                                Egypt
                            
                  
                  1.25
               
               
                  1190
                  Lala Rookh
                  1.00
               
               
                  1191–92
                  Lionel 
                                Lincoln
                            
                  
                  2.00
               
               
                  1193–94
                  Rothelan
                  1.00
               
               
                  1195–96
                  Marriage
                  1.00
               
            
            Tuesday 24th January 1826
            Special Meeting of the Directors Present: Badollet, Kuykendall, & Judah.
            Ordered that the following Books be purchased for the Library, and that the Librarian pay over to Mr.
                    Saml. Tomlinson, the money in his hands, for that purpose: Caesar, translated by Bladon; Godwins
                    History of 
                        England
                    ; Chalmers History of Queen Mary; Blackwell's History of Augustus; Buffons
                    Natural History; Barton on the origin of the N. American Indians; Clayton's Alexander the
                    Great; Count Bertrands Campaigns of Napoleon; An Excursion through the U. States & 
                        Canada
                     in 1822 & 1823 by an English gentleman; Lord Lyttleton's Dialogues of
                    the Dead; Volneys Lectures on the Study of History; Shenstone's Poems; Wain's Life
                    of Genl. 
                        Lafayette
                    ; Report of the Debates and proceedings of the 
                        New York
                     Convention in 1821; Miss Maria Edgeworths works (6 vols.); Wheaton's Life of
                    William Pinkney; Lectures on the Adulteration of food and culinary poisons, in general, by James
                    Cutbush; Rawle's view of the Constitution of the U. States; De Ponceau's
                    Dissertation on the jurisdiction of the U. S. Courts; Hearn's Travels to the North Pole;
                    Capt. Franklins travels to Do.; Parry's 1st and 3d Voyage to the North; Morier's
                    Journey through Persia Armenia &c.; Salt's voyage to Abyssinia; Koster's
                    Travels in 
                  Brazil; Brown
                on  the Mind; Memoirs of Capt.
                    Rock; Hungarian Brothers; Continuation of Nile's Register from the 15th Vol. inclusive, to
                    the present time, half bound &c.; Subscribe for the North American Review.
            There being no more business, the Board adjd.
            [February 6, 1826]
            Annual meeting of the Shareholders, February 6th 1826 Present: Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    , President; John Badollet, Albert Badollet, Samuel Hill, Jacob Kuykendall, G. W.
                    Johnston, D. C. Johnson, Moses Tabbs, Saml. T. Scott, James T. Moffatt, John Moore, John Law,
                    Christian Graeter, R. P. Price, G. R. C. Sullivan by Hill as proxy, J. C. S. Harrison.
            The Meeting being called to order by the President, When the Librarian exhibited an Account Current
                    exhibiting a statement of the moneys received and expended by him, since the last meeting of the
                    Shareholders, shewing a balce. in his hands on the 5th inst. of $1.683/4.
            On Motion It was Resolved; that said Account be received, and approved of my [by?] this meeting.
            On Motion of Mr. Harrison Resolved, that all arrearages due upon the share of J. Doty decd, be
                    remitted and that said Share be forfeited to the Library.
            On Motion of Mr. Tabbs Resolved, unanimously, that J. C. S. Harrison be discharged from the payment
                    of all contributions, to the Company from the time of his appointment as Librarian, and so long as
                    he may continue to occupy that office.
            On Motion of Mr. J. Badollet, Resolved that the thanks of this meeting be tendered to J. C. S.
                    Harrison, for his zeal in promoting the interests of this institution and for the manner in which he
                    has discharged the duties of Librarian.
            The meeting then proceeded to the election of officers to serve the current year, when upon counting
                    the ballots, the following persons were declared to be duly elected. Viz.: Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    , President; John Badollet, Jacob Kuykendall, Saml. Judah, Saml. Hill, G. W. Johnson,
                    Directors; & J. C. S. Harrison, Librarian.
            On motion the meeting then adjourned.
            
            
               
                        Vincennes
                     July 13th 1826
            Special meeting of the President & Directors, Present: Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    , Prest.; Jacob Kuykendall, General W. Johnston, Samuel Hill, Samuel Judah, Directors.
            On Motion It was resolved—that the Librarian write to Messrs. Carey & Lea
                    Booksellers in 
                        Philadelphia
                     and ascertain at what prices the following books can be obtained from them, Viz.:
                    Bacons Works; Burneys History of Buccaneers; Wilkinson's Memoirs; Comines (Philip de)
                    Memoirs; Currans Life by his son; Lord Kaimes Sketches of man; Heckewelder's Narrative;
                    Volneys lectures upon History; Count Bertrand's Campaigns of Napoleon; Wain's Life
                    of 
                        Lafayette
                    ; Hearnes Travels to North Pole; Wheaton's Life of Pinckney; Parry's
                    1st & 3d voyages; Salts voyage to Abyssinia; Moriers Journey through Persia &c.;
                    Westminister Hall or Professional Relics & anecdotes; De Israeli's Curiosities of
                    Literature; Rabelais Works, translated; Moore's Zeluco; Burton's Anatomy of
                    Melancholy; Life of Genl. Andrew Jackson; Duane's Visit to 
                        Columbia
                    ; Koster's Travels in 
                        Brazil
                    ; Journey of Major Denham & Capt. Clapperton into the Interior of Africa;
                    Lelands Demosthenes; Woodstock by the Author of Waverly; Prairie by Cooper; Drunkards Looking glass
                    by Weems.
            Resolved that the balance of cash remaining on hands after the purchase of the books already ordered
                    (including the income for the year 1827) be and the same is hereby appropriated for the purchase of
                    Reis's American Cyclopedia and that the Librarian be requested to ascertain the cost
                    &c.
            The Librarian then presented the following Books purchased by Mr. Tomlinson by order of the Board:
            
               
                  Secret Debates
                  1.50
               
               
                  
                     
                                Franklin
                            's Narative
                  2.00
               
               
                  Duponceau's Dissertation
                  1.87
               
               
                  Rawle on the Constitution
                  2.75
               
               
                  Memoirs of Capt. Rock
                  .621/2
                  
               
               
                  Accums Treatise
                  .621/2
                  
               
               
                  Miss Edgeworth's Works
                  12.00
               
               
                  Browns Philosophy
                  5.00
               
               
                  1 Number N. American Review
                  1.20
               
               
                  Last of the Mohicans
                  1.7 [?]
               
               
                  Carriage & expences to 
                                Vincennes
                            
                  
                  4.4 [?]
               
               
                  
                  $33.75
               
            
            
            Ordered that the above books be received and that they be numbered and appraised as follow[s]:
            
               
                  No. 1198–99
                  Last of the Mohicans
                  2.00
               
               
                  1200
                  Memoirs of Capt. Rock
                  1.00
               
               
                  1201
                  Accum's Treatise
                  1.00
               
               
                  1202–7
                  Miss Edgeworths Works
                  18.00
               
               
                  1208–10
                  
                     
                                Brown
                             Philosophy
                  7.50
               
               
                  1211
                  
                     
                                Franklin
                            's Narrative
                  3.00
               
               
                  1212
                  Duponceau's Dissertation
                  2.50
               
               
                  1213
                  Secret Debates
                  2.00
               
               
                  1214
                  Rawle on the Constitution
                  3.00
               
            
            The Librarian also presented the following books which he had purchased for the Library:
            
               
                  No. 1215
                  Moore's Life of Sheridan
                  3.00
               
               
                  1197
                  The Koran
                  .871/2
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  $3.871/2
                  
               
            
            Ordered that they be recd. and that the Librarian receive a credit for three dollars & 871/2 cents.
            There being no further business the Board adjourned.
            J. C. S. Harrison Libn.
            [undated]
            Special Meeting of the Directors Present: Badollet, Hill, Judah.
            The Librarian presented the following books, purchased by Ma jr. Lagow under an order from the Board:
            
               
                  Bacons Works
                  10 vols.
                  $22.50
               
               
                  Philip de Comines
                  1 vol.
                  4.28
               
               
                  Hearnes Journies
                  1 do.
                  7.00
               
               
                  Kosters Travels in 
                                Brazil
                            
                  
                  2 vols.
                  3.00
               
               
                  Drunkards Looking Glass
                  1 do.
                  0.12
               
               
                  Woodstock
                  2 do.
                  1.00
               
               
                  Duane's Visit to 
                                Columbia
                            
                  
                  1 do.
                  8.50
               
               
                  Burney's Buckaneers
                  1 do.
                  5.75
               
               
                  Wilkinson's Memoirs & atlas
                  3 do.
                  11.00
               
               
                  Life of Curran
                  1 do.
                  2.25
               
               
                  Heckewelder's Narrative
                  1 do.
                  1.75
               
               
                  Wain's Life of 
                                Lafayette
                            
                  
                  1 do.
                  3.00
               
               
                  Wheaton's Life of Pinckney
                  1 do.
                  2.50
               
               
                  Lelands Demosthenes
                  1 do.
                  2.50
               
               
               
                  Life of Genl. Jackson
                  1 do.
                  1.75
               
               
                  Salt's Abyssinia
                  1 vol.
                  2.50
               
               
                  Morier's Persia
                  1 do.
                  2.50
               
               
                  Moore's Zeluco
                  1 do.
                  2.00
               
               
                  Continuation of Nile's Register
                  14 vols.
                  42.00
               
               
                  Tour around 
                                Hawaii
                            
                  
                  
                  1.12
               
               
                  Box &c. Carriage &c.
                  
                  .75
               
            
            Ordered that the above books be received and that they be numbered and appraised as
                    follows—Viz.:
            
               
                  No. 1216
                  Philip de Comines
                  4.75
               
               
                  1217–19
                  Wilkinson's Memoirs
                  16.50
               
               
                  1220
                  Lelands Demosthenes
                  2.50
               
               
                  1221
                  Wheaton's Life of Pinkney
                  2.00
               
               
                  1222
                  Zeluco
                  2.00
               
               
                  1223–32
                  Bacon's Works
                  25.00
               
               
                  1233
                  Life of 
                                Lafayette
                            
                  
                  3.00
               
               
                  1234
                  Heckawelder's Narrative
                  1.75
               
               
                  1235
                  Duane's Visit to 
                                Columbia
                            
                  
                  3.50
               
               
                  1236
                  Morier's Persia
                  2.50
               
               
                  1237
                  Hearne's Journey
                  7.00
               
               
                  1238
                  Burney's Buccaneers
                  5.75
               
               
                  1239–52
                  Continuation of Niles Register
                  42.00
               
               
                  1253
                  Salts Abyssinia
                  2.50
               
               
                  1254
                  Life of Curran
                  2.25
               
               
                  1255–56
                  Koster's Travels in 
                                Brazil
                            
                  
                  3.00
               
               
                  1257
                  Life of Genl. Jackson
                  3.50
               
               
                  1258
                  Tour around 
                                Hawaii
                            
                  
                  1.12
               
               
                  1259–60
                  Woodstock
                  2.50
               
            
            Monday Febuary 5th 1827
            Annual meeting of the shareholders, Present: Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    , President; John Badollet, Saml. T. Scott, Saml. Judah, Daniel Smith, R. P. Price,
                    Henry D. Wheeler, Jacob Kuykendall, John Bruner, J. C. S. Harrison.
            The meeting being called to order by the President when the Librarian laid before the meeting an
                    account current exhibiting the amt. of moneys recd. & expended by him since the last meeting
                    of the Shareholders, shewing a balance in his hands on the 4th inst. of $19.701/2, whereupon It was Resolved, that said account be received and approved of by
                    this meeting.
            
            On motion of Mr. Harrison, Resolved, that all arrearages due upon the Share of John McGiffin be
                    remitted and that the said share be forfeited.
            On motion of Mr. Smith, Resolved, that all arrearages due upon the share of the late John Johnson, be
                    remitted, and that said share be forfeited.
            On motion of Mr. Judah, Resolved, that in future shareholders may take two books at the same time,
                    instead of one as heretofore; provided that this resolution shall not apply to cases where a
                    shareholder lends his share to any person.
            The meeting then proceeded to the election of officers, and upon counting the votes, the following
                    persons were declared to be duly elected, viz.: Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    , President; John Badollet, Jacob Kuykendall, Saml. Hill, Saml. Judah, & Saml.
                    T. Scott, Directors; & J. C. S. Harrison, Librarian.
            There being no further business, the meeting adjourned.
            J. C. S. Harrison Libn.
            June 15th 1827
            Special Meeting of the Directors Present: Bdollet, Kuykendall, Hill.
            The Librarian presented the following books which had been purchased by Mr. Tomlinson under an order
                    of the Board, viz.:
            
               
                  Denham & Clapperton's Journal
                  
                  $4.00
               
               
                  Parry's 3d voyage
                  
                  2.25
               
               
                  
                  
                  6.25
               
               
                  
                  Discount
                  1.25
               
               
                  
                  
                  5.00
               
               
                  Almacks
                  
                  1.50
               
               
                  
                     
                                Wise
                             men of Gotham
                  
                  1.50
               
               
                  
                  carriage &c.
                  .50
               
               
                  
                  total
                  $8.50
               
            
            Ordered that the above books be recd. & numbered and appraisd as follows:
            
               
                  No. 1261
                  Denham & Clapperton
                  $4.00
               
               
                  1262
                  Parrys 3d voyage
                  2.25
               
               
                  1263–4
                  Almaeks
                  2.00
               
               
                  1265
                  
                     
                                Wise
                             men of Gotham
                  1.50
               
            
            
            Ordered, that the following works be purchased for the Library, and that the Librarian pay over to
                    Mr. Saml. Smith, the money in his hands for this purpose: Walter Scott's Life of Napoleon;
                    Prairie by Cooper; Parry's 1st voyage; Ross's voyage of Discovery; American
                    Mechanic & British Machineist; Biography of the Signers of the Declaration of American
                    Independence; Skinner's American Farmer; Kelly's Reminiscences;
                    Sismundi's Works.
            and the Board adjourned.
            J. C. S. Harrison Libn.
            August 24th 1827
            Special meeting of the Directors. Present: Badollet, Hill, Judah.
            The Librarian presented the following books which had been purchased by Mr. Saml. Smith under an
                    order from the Board, viz.:
            
               
                  Vivian Grey
                  3 vols.
                  $2.00
               
               
                  Prairie by Cooper
                  2 vols.
                  2.00
               
               
                  American Biography (Signers to the Declaration of Ind.)
                  9 vols.
                  21.50
               
               
                  Sismondi's Literature
                  2 "
                  3.00
               
               
                  Nicholson's operative Mechanic
                  2 vols.
                  5.00
               
               
                  American Mechanics Magazine
                  2 "
                  2.00
               
               
                  Kelly's Reminisences
                  1 "
                  1.50
               
               
                  Military Sketch Book $1.121/2 Subaltern. 621/2
                  
                  1.75
               
               
                  
                  Carriage
                  3.25
               
            
            Ordered, that the above books be received & that they be numbered and appraised as follows:
            
               
                  Number
                  
                  Valuation
               
               
                  1266–68
                  Vivian Grey
                  2.50
               
               
                  1269–70
                  
                            
                                Prairie
                            
                        
                  2.50
               
               
                  1271–79
                  Signers to the Declaration &c.
                  26.00
               
               
                  1280–81
                  Sismondi's Literature
                  4.00
               
               
                  1282–83
                  Nicholson's Operative Mechanic
                  6.00
               
               
                  1284–85
                  American Mechanics Magazine
                  3.00
               
               
                  1286
                  Kellys Reminisences
                  2.50
               
               
                  1287–88
                  Military Sketch Book
                  1.50
               
               
                  1289
                  Subaltern
                  1.00
               
            
            and the Board Adjourned.
            J. C. S. Harrison Libn.
            
            [November 13, 1827]
            Special meeting of the Directors Novr. 13th 1827 Present: Badollet, Kuykendall, Hill.
            On motion of Mr. Badollet Resolved that the Librarian be and he is hereby authorized to advance to
                    Mr. Dardenes the Sum of twenty dollars to purchase the implements necessary for carrying on the Book
                    binding business, the same to be repaid in such work as the Library may require and the balance if
                    any, in cash at the expiration of Six months, if required by this Board.
            The Librarian presented the following books which he had purchased in 
                        Louisville
                     for the Library at the prices annexed, Ordered, that they be received and that the
                    Librarian have a credit of eight dollars being the cost of the same:
            
               
                  No. 1290
                  
                     
                                Clay
                            's Speeches
                  $2.00
               
               
                  1291
                  McKenneys tour to the Lakes
                  4.00
               
               
                  1292–93
                  Francis Berrian (2 vols.)
                  2.00
               
               
                  
                  
                  $8.00
               
            
            And the Board Adjourned.
            J. C. S. Harrison Libn.
            Monday February 4th 1828
            Annual meeting of the Shareholders, Present: Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    , President; John Badollet, Elias McNamee, Samuel Hill, Daniel Smith, Henry D. Wheeler,
                    D. C. Johnson; & J. C. S. Harrison, Librarian.
            The meeting being called to order by the President and the minuets of the last meeting having been
                    read, the Librarian presented an Account Current exhibiting the moneys recd. and expended, since the
                    last meeting of the Shareholders; which account exhibited a balance in favour of the Library on the
                    3d inst. of seventeen dollars & forty one cents.
            On Motion of Mr. Hill Resolved that the account of the Librarian be received & approved of by
                    the meeting.
            On Motion of Mr. Harrison Resolved that all arrearages due upon the Share of Col. Francis Vigo be
                    remitted.
            The meetings then proceeded to the election of officers to serve the current [year], when the
                    following gentlemen  were declared duly elected: Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    , President; John Badollet, Jacob Kuykendall, Elias McNamee, Samuel Hill, &
                    Samuel Judah, Directors; J. C. S. Harrison, Librarian, and the meeting adjourned, sine die.
            April 10th 1828
            Special meeting of the Directors, Present: John Badollet, Elias McNamee, Samuel Hill.
            On Motion It was, Ordered that the Librarian purchase of Moses Tabbs the Edinburgh Review in 29
                    volumes at 2 dollars per volume, amounting to $58; and that it be Settled as follows,
                    viz., the Sum of $2.871/2 be placed to the credit of Mr. Tabbs share
                    in the Library, the further Sum of $11.061/4 be placed to the credit
                    of the Share owned by William T. Carroll; and that for the remainder, (being $44.061/4) the President is hereby authorized to give Mr. Tabbs the obligation of the
                    Company, payable in One year from this date.
            The Librarian presented "Scotts life of Napoleon," which he had purchased under an
                    order from the Board for the price of $4— Ordered that said work be received
                    & that the Librarian have a credit for $4.00.
            Ordered That the above mentioned works be numbered and appraised as follows, viz.:
            
               
                  No. 1294–96
                  Scotts Life of Napoleon
               
               
                  1297–1325
                  Edinburgh Review
               
            
            Monday February 2d 1829.
            Annual Meeting of the Shareholders, Present: Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    , President; John Badollet, John D. Hay, Henry D. Wheeler, Samuel Judah, Jacob
                    Kuykendall, John Bruner, J. C. S. Harrison.
            The meeting having been called to order by the president, and the minuets of the last meeting being
                    read, the Librarian presented an account Current exhibiting the amt. of money recd. and expended by
                    him since the last meeting, shewing a balance in his hands on the 31st of January of Fifty nine
                    dollars & 161/2 cents; which acct. was on motion received.
            
            On motion of Mr. Judah Resolved, that whenever the owner of any share shall be in such circumstances,
                    as to render it inexpedient for the Librarian to bring suit for the amt. due on such share, or if
                    suit may have been brought, and the said owner proves insolvent, and that amount shall exceed the
                    sum of eight dollars, it shall be the duty of the Librarian to enter such share as forfeited, and
                    thereby such share shall become forfeited, and the amt. due thereon be remitted.
            On Motion Resolved, That one half of the Library funds are hereby set apart, and appropriated for the
                    purchase of a Cyclopedia.
            The meeting then proceeded to the election of Officers to serve the Current Year, when on counting
                    the ballots the following gentlemen were declared duly elected: Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    , President; John Badollet, Jacob Kuykendall, Saml. Judah, Saml. Hill, & John D.
                    Hay, Directors; J. C. S. Harrison, Librarian.
            And the Meeting adjourned.
            [undated]
            Special meeting of the Directors. Present: Judah, Hill, Hay.
            The Librarian presented the following books which had been purchased by him at the prices annexed
                    which books on motion were received:
            
               
                  No. 1326–28
                  Irvings life of 
                                Columbus
                            
                  
                  $7.25
               
               
                  1329
                  Anecdotes of the Court of Napoleon
                  2.00
               
               
                  1330
                  Spanish Inquisition
                  2.00
               
               
                  1332–33
                  Barringtons Sketches
                  1.50
               
               
                  1331
                  
                     
                                Franklin
                            's 2d Expedition
                  2.00
               
               
                  1334–35
                  Red Rover
                  2.121/2
                  
               
               
                  1336–37
                  Chronicles of the Canongate
                  1.00
               
               
                  1338
                  Devil on two Sticks
                  .50
               
               
                  1339–40
                  Fair Maid of Perth
                  1.00
               
               
                  
                  
                  $19.371/2
                  
               
            
            And the Board adjourned.
            
            Monday 1 February 1830
            Annual meeting of the Shareholders Present: Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    , Prest; J. C. S. Harrison, Saml. Hill, R. P. Price, J. B. Martin, Nick. Smith, Wm.
                    Burtch, Jno. Law, John Bruner, Jacob Kuykendall, John Badollet, Saml. Smith.
            On motion it was order'd That as a tribute of respect to Mr. John Reed for his attention to
                    the Library the Librarian permit him to subscribe for one share in the Library which the
                    shareholders hereby present to him.
            The Librarian presented the following Books which were purchased by him at the prices annexed which
                    were rec'd. and numbered as follows:
            
               
                  No. 1341–2
                  Pellham
                  2 Vols.
                  2.00
               
               
                  1343–4
                  Tales Great St. Bernard
                  2 V.
                  2.00
               
               
                  1345–6
                  Ann of Greistien
                  2 Vols.
                  2.00
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  6.00
               
            
            On motion it was Resolved That the Librarian be authorised to pay the rent of the Room wherein the
                    Library is kept out of the Library funds provided the same does not exceed One Dollar pr. month.
            On motion it was Resolved unanimously That the than[k]s of the Shareholders be presented to J. C. S.
                    Harrison Esqr. for his long and gratuitous services as Librarian.
            The Librarian presented his a/cs which were examined and found correct.
            On motion it was ordered That a fine standing on the Books against R. P. Price amounting to
                        $5.371/2 be and is hereby remitted.
            On motion the resolution passed at the annual meeting in February last for the purchase of the
                    Cyclopedia was reconsidered—and it was resolved that it was inexpedient to set apart a
                    fund for the purchase of said work at the present time. The meeting then proceeded to the choice of
                    Officers to serve the ensuing year when on counting the ballots the following gentlemen were
                    declared duly elected viz.: Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    , President; John Badollet, Jacob Kuykendall, J. C. S. Harrison, John Law, Samuel Smith,
                    Directors; and Samuel Hill, Librarian.
            and the meeting was adjourned.
            Saml. Hill Libraria[n].
            
            [February 6, 1830]
            Special Meeting of the Directors Saturday 6 February 1830 Present: 
                        Blackford
                     Law & Smith.
            On motion it was Resolved that Mr. Tomlinson purchase the following Books and that he be furnished by
                    the Librarian with the funds now in his hand to enable him to effect said purchase viz.: The
                    Edinburgh Review from Aug. 1817; Niles Register from Aug. 27. 1825; Jeffersons Works; Irvings
                    Orations; Library of Useful Knowledge; Hebers travels in 
                        India
                    ; Basil Halls travels in the U. S.; Wept of the 
                        Wish
                     ton 
                        Wish
                    ; Pilot; Malte Bruns Geography; Book of the Boudier by Lady Morgan; Memoirs of a Kings
                    Page by the Author of Almack; Life in 
                        India
                    ; Pitkins History of the U. S.; Spy by Cooper.
            [May 11, 1830]
            Special Meeting of the Directors 11 May 1830 Present: Jacob Kuykendall J. Badollet Directors.
            The Librarian presented the following Books viz.: N. American Review Vol. 17 & 18 Bound. also
                    a treatise on the Cultivation of Silk presented by himself—and 
                        Van
                     Halens Narritive which were rec'd. and number'd as follows:
            
               
                  1347–8
                  N. American Review Vol. 17 & 18
                  6.00
               
               
                  1349
                  Treatise on the Silk Worm
                  1.00
               
               
                  1350
                  
                     
                                Van
                             Halens Narritive
                  1.00
               
            
            also the following purchased by Mr. Tomlinson by order of the Directors which were rec'd.
                    and numbered as follows:
            
               
                  1351–4
                  Malte Bruns Geography
                  4 V.
                  8.00
               
               
                  1355–6
                  Pitkins 
                                United States
                            
                  
                  2 V.
                  4.25
               
               
                  1357–60
                  Jeffersons Memoirs
                  4 V.
                  11.25
               
               
                  1361
                  Irvings Oracles
                  
                  1.25
               
               
                  1362–3
                  Hebers Narrative
                  2 V.
                  2.25
               
               
                  1364–5
                  Wept of 
                                Wish
                             ton 
                                Wish
                            
                  
                  2 V.
                  2.00
               
               
                  1366–7
                  Book of the Boudier
                  2 V.
                  1.30
               
               
                  1368–9
                  Pilot
                  2 V.
                  1.371/2
                  
               
               
                  1370–1
                  Kings Page
                  2 V.
                  1.30
               
               
                  1372–3
                  Halls Travels
                  2 V.
                  1.60
               
               
                  1374–5
                  Spy
                  2 V.
                  1.30
               
               
                  1376–90
                  Edinburgh Review
                  15 Vols.
                  30.00
               
               
                  1391–2
                  Darnley
                  
                  1.50
               
            
            
            [February 7, 1831]
            Annual meeting of the Shareholders February 7th 1831.
            On motion E. McNamee was appointed President pro tem and John Law Secretary.
            On motion of Mr. Judah it was Resolved that the Librarian give notice, that all dues not paid on the
                    1st April be sued for immediately and that he be instructed to enter as forfeited the shares of all
                    those persons, from whom in his judgment in consequency of being nonresidents or insolvency it is
                    not possible any collection can be made.
            The following named Books purchased by the Librarian at J. C. S. Harrison's sale were
                    rec'd. and numbered as follows, they were valued at 7.00 and the Librarian was credit with
                    the Amt.:
            
               
                  1393
                  Walsh's Appeal
                  
                  2.00
               
               
                  1394–5
                  Harriotts Struggles
                  2 V.
                  1.50
               
               
                  1396–7
                  Ivanhoe
                  2 V.
                  1.371/2
                  
               
               
                  1398
                  Cottage Sketches
                  
                  .25
               
               
                  1399
                  Glovers Leonidas
                  
                  .371/2
                  
               
               
                  1400–1
                  Letters from the South
                  
                  .50
               
               
                  1402–3
                  Arthur Clenning
                  2 V.
                  1.00
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  $7.00
               
            
            The Shareholders then proceeded to the choice of Officers for the ensuing year, when on counting the
                    votes the following named gentlemen were declared duly elected viz.: E. McNamee, President, Saml.
                    Hill Librarian and Saml. Judah Saml. Smith, Jno. Law R. P. Price and J. D. Woolverton Directors.
            The meeting was then adjourned.
            [February 12, 1831]
            Special meeting of the Directors February 12 1831 Present: E. McNamee, President and John Law, Saml.
                    Judah Saml. Smith and R. P. Price Directors.
            The a/c of Solomon Rathbone was presented for binding 32 Vols. of Books On motion it was ordered that
                    he be allowed 371/2 cents for each volume bound or to be allowed the 
                        Indianapolis
                     price for the same kind of work.
            
            On motion it was Ordered that John Law be allowed Two Dollars for Paul Clifford and Walter Colyton
                    and that Jno. Bruner be allowed 1.50 for the Greek Revolution which books were rec'd.,
                    valued and numbered as follows viz.:
            
               
                  1404–5
                  Walter Colyton
                  2 Vols.
                  1.00
               
               
                  1406–7
                  Paul Clifford
                  2 V.
                  1.00
               
               
                  1408
                  Greek Revolution
                  
                  1.50
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  3.50
               
            
            On motion it was Ordered That the Librarian subscribe for the Encyclopedia Americana and write to
                    Carter and Hendee for the ballance of the Books and have the same numbered.
            Ordered that the Edinburgh Review and Niles Register be continued and that the Librarian send for the
                    Skimmer of the Sea's by Cooper.
            Ordered That the Librarian subscribe for the Library of Entertaining Knowledge and write to W. W.
                    Worsly 
                        Louisville
                     and get the back numbers.
            Ordered That the Librarian report to next meeting the 2d Saturday in March the state of our finances.
            The Board then adjourned.
            E. McNamee.
            Saturday 3d September 1831
            Special meeting of Directors Present: The President Dr. McNamee Saml. Smith John D. Woolverton R. P.
                    Price Jno. Law.
            Ordered that the former order making an allowance of 371/2 cents to S. Rathbone
                    for binding books made at the last session be and the same is hereby repealed.
            Ordered That The Treasurer be authorised to allow to S. Rathbone fifty cents for each volume bound by
                    him and to settle said Rathbones acct.
            The Board adjourned.
            E. McNamee.
            Monday 6 Feby. 1832
            Annual Meeting of the Shareholders Present: E. McNamee, Jacob Kuykendall John D. Hay Jno. Badollet
                    Jno.  Bruner S. Smith Wm. Burtch, J. K. Dubois, Saml. Hill J. B.
                    Martin, Archd. Simpson & J. D. Woolverton—Doct. McNamee Chairman.
            On motion Messrs. Saml. Smith J. B. Martin and J. D. Woolverton were appointed a Committee to examine
                    the a/cs of the Librarian and to report on Saturday next.
            The following named Books were purchased for the Library by the Librarian were received numbered and
                    valued as follows:
            
               
                  1409–10
                  Peace Campaings of a Cornet
                  1.25
               
               
                  1411
                  Joseph Andrews
                  .75
               
               
                  1412–13
                  Tales of a Grandfather
                  1.25
               
               
                  1414–15
                  Water Witch
                  1.75
               
               
                  1416–26
                  Niles' Register
                  35.25
               
               
                  1427–34
                  Edinburgh Review
                  25.55
               
               
                  1435–36
                  Young Duke
                  1.50
               
            
            On motion it was ordered that the Librarian credit Saml. Smith for Tales of a Grandfather 1.25, Water
                    Witch 1.75 making in the whole Three Dolls.
            On motion it was Resolved That the Librarian forthwith make out the a/cs of delinquent shareholders
                    to this date and deposit them in the hands of a collecting officer, giving notice however through
                    the columns of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Gasette that they are with such officer deposited for collection by law unless payment
                    be made by the first day of April next.
            On motion it was Resolved That the Librarian be allowed hereafter to let out Books to citisens not
                    having shares and to transient persons, on the responsibility of a share holder under the following
                    rules: 
                  
                     A Book
                     per month
                     50 Cents
                  
                  
                     A
                     per Week
                     25 Cents
                  
                to be paid in advance and that the money so accruing shall form part of the Library fund.
                    The meeting then proceeded to the choice of officers for the ensuing year when on counting the votes
                    the following gentlemen were declared duly elected vis.: Elias McNamee, President; Samuel Smith,
                    John Law, Samuel Judah, Jacob Kuykendall, and John Badollet, Directors; Samuel Hill, Librarian.
            A Meeting of the Directors having been agreed on to take place on Saturday the 19th Inst. the meeting
                    then adjourned.
            Saml. Hill Libn.
            
            February 18 1832
            Present: E. McNamee President Kuykendall Judah and Smith Directors.
            Genl. W. Johnston's proposition for paying the amt. of his dues $10.00 was
                    rec'd. Mr. Smith appointed a Committee to make selections The follow [ing] list of Books
                    was adopted for our next purchases: Encyclopedia Americana, Moores Life Bryon, Pollocks Course of
                    Time, Complete Sett Scotts Novels, History of Chivalry and the Crusades, Diary of a Physician, Bravo
                    by Cooper, Complete sett American Farmer, 5 Vol. Malte Bruns Geography, Stewarts visit to the South
                    Sea's, Journal of a cruise of U. S. Schooner Dolpin in the Pacific.
            On motion it was ordered That a Committee be appointed whose duty it shall be to select all works of
                    which we have duplicate copies, and all such works as it may be expedient by the decay of the
                    binding to sell, and sell the same at auction on a credit of one year with security Mess. Jno.
                    Badollet and S. Judah said committee who selected the subjoined Books which were sold at Auction on
                    the tenth march at the prices annexed:
            
               
                  
                     ∗Robertson's America
                  2 V.
                  2.621/2
                  
               
               
                  Dicty. Arts and Science
                  5
                  3.311/4
                  
               
               
                  Guthries Geography
                  2
                  1.183/4
                  
               
               
                  Morses Do.
                  2
                  1.061/4
                  
               
               
                  Pinkerton Do.
                  2
                  1.00
               
               
                  Humes 
                                England
                            
                  
                  6
                  5.08
               
               
                  French Revolution
                  1
                  1.00
               
               
                  Practical Farmer
                  1
                  .50
               
               
                  Philosophic Essays
                  1
                  .25
               
               
                  Universal Erudition
                  3
                  1.061/4
                  
               
               
                  Essays on the Passions
                  1
                  .25
               
               
                  
                     ∗Goldsmith A Nature
                  3
                  1.121/2
                  
               
               
                  Ladie's Companion
                  1
                  .50
               
               
                  Priestlys History
                  1
                  .121/2
                  
               
               
                  Beauties of Hervey
                  1 Vol.
                  .25
               
               
                  Thompsons Season
                  1 "
                  .25
               
               
                  Confession Faith
                  1 "
                  .25
               
               
                  Physico Theology
                  1 "
                  .121/2
                  
               
               
                  Shakspeare
                  11 "
                  3.061/4
                  
               
               
                  Hapless Orphan
                  1 "
                  .311/4
                  
               
               
                  Essays & Letters
                  2 "
                  .311/4
                  
               
               
                  Washingtons Letters
                  2 "
                  1.00
               
               
                  Mysteries Udolpho
                  2 "
                  .121/2
                  
               
               
                  Dramatic Miscellanies
                  3 "
                  .75
               
               
                  Beggar Girl
                  1 "
                  .121/2
                  
               
               
               
                  Asgills Tracts
                  1 "
                  .121/2
                  
               
               
                  Vagabond
                  1 "
                  .183/4
                  
               
               
                  Goldsmiths 
                                Rome
                            
                  
                  1 "
                  .311/4
                  
               
               
                  Do. 
                                England
                            
                  
                  1 "
                  .561/4
                  
               
               
                  Gasetteer
                  1 "
                  .75
               
               
                  Abbess
                  3 "
                  .69
               
               
                  
                     ∗Arabian Nights
                  2 "
                  .371/2
                  
               
               
                  Plain Sense
                  1 "
                  .61/4
                  
               
               
                  Leland on Eloquence
                  1
                  .121/2
                  
               
               
                  Blairs Rhetoric
                  1
                  .61/4
                  
               
               
                  
                     ∗Modern Chivalry
                  1
                  .561/4
                  
               
               
                  Joan of Arc
                  1
                  .25
               
               
                  Morses Geography
                  1
                  .25
               
               
                  Drydens Poems
                  2
                  1.19
               
               
                  Melmoths Essays
                  1
                  .19
               
               
                  Ossian's Poems
                  2
                  .69
               
               
                  Miscellanies
                  2
                  .69
               
               
                  
                     ∗Bruces Travels
                  1
                  .66
               
               
                  Federalist
                  2
                  3.25
               
               
                  Do.
                  2
                  3.121/2
                  
               
               
                  Charms Literature
                  1
                  .121/2
                  
               
               
                  
                     ∗Rollins Anchient Hist.
                  8
                  3.871/22
               
               
                  
                     ∗Marmontels Tales
                  3
                  .621/2
                  
               
               
                  Ildegerte
                  1
                  .25
               
               
                  Horrors St. Domingo
                  1
                  .311/4
                  
               
               
                  Johnsons Lives
                  2
                  1.811/4
                  
               
               
                  
                     ∗Miltons Works
                  1 Vol.
                  .45
               
               
                  Franklins Do.
                  1 "
                  .311/4
                  
               
               
                  Rambler
                  4 "
                  1.371/2
                  
               
               
                  Duncans Logic
                  1 "
                  .121/2
               
               
                  
                     ∗Lay Last Minstrel
                  1
                  .311/4
                  
               
               
                  
                     ∗Lady of the Lake
                  1
                  .19
               
               
                  Guthres Geography
                  1
                  .311/4
                  
               
               
                  Isabinda
                  2
                  .25
               
               
                  Azunis Maratime Law
                  2
                  .871/2
                  
               
               
                  
                     ∗Telemachus
                  2
                  2.061/4
                  
               
               
                  Tristram Shandy
                  1
                  .621/2
                  
               
               
                  Wild Flowers
                  1
                  .121/2
                  
               
               
                  Popular Tales
                  2
                  .69
               
               
                  
                     ∗Manners & Customs
                  2
                  .621/2
                  
               
               
                  Citisen of the World
                  2
                  .311/4
                  
               
               
                  Rambler
                  4
                  1.33
               
               
                  Belinda
                  2
                  .561/4
                  
               
               
                  
                     ∗Byrons Poems
                  2
                  .42
               
               
                  
                     ∗Thaddeus 
                                Warsaw
                            
                  
                  2
                  .25
               
               
                  Owenson's Sketches
                  1
                  .25
               
               
                  Crutwells Gaseeteer
                  1
                  2.00
               
               
                  The Book
                  1
                  .75
               
               
                  Heart Mid Lothair
                  2
                  .371/2
                  
               
               
                  
                            
                                Rob Roy
                            
                        
                  1
                  .183/4
                  
               
               
                  R. D. Tracy
                  3
                  .50
               
               
               
                  Henry Beauvais
                  2
                  .25
               
               
                  Laura
                  1
                  .183/4
                  
               
               
                  Progress Love
                  2
                  .311/4
                  
               
               
                  Whelphlys [?] Compend
                  1
                  .20
               
               
                  Peveril of the Peak
                  2
                  .121/2
                  
               
               
                  Greens Poems
                  1
                  .19
               
               
                  St. Romans Well
                  2
                  .25
               
               
                  Albigenses
                  3
                  .621/2
                  
               
               
                  Hutcheson on Beauty
                  1
                  .311/4
                  
               
               
                  Duke Christian
                  1
                  .25
               
               
                  Ivanhoe
                  2
                  .371/2
                  
               
               
                  Spae Wife
                  2
                  .371/2
                  
               
               
                  Marmontels Memoirs
                  2
                  .371/2
                  
               
            
            Those marked thus ∗ are to be replaced in the Library.
            Samuel Smith was allowed $1.75 for Clays Life which was numbered.
            March 31 1832
            A meeting of the Directors. Present: Judah Badollet, Kuykendall and McNamee President.
            On motion G. W. Johnston was allowed $13.50 for Mitfords 
                        Greece
                     and the Librarian was directed to credit his a/c with the amt. the said work was
                    numbered and valued as follows viz.:
            
               
                  Nos.
                  to
                  Mitfords 
                                Greece
                            
                  
                  13.50
               
            
            On motion it was ordered that the Library be closed three weeks from this date and the Librarian give
                    notice that all Books now out be returned forthwith.
            The following named Books purchased by the Librarian were rec'd. numbered & valued
                    as follows and he was credited with the amt.:
            
               
                  No.
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  
                  Chastelleux's Travels
                  
                  .871/2
                  
               
               
                  
                  Hebers Poems
                  
                  .25
               
               
                  
                  Shipwreck
                  
                  .121/2
                  
               
               
                  
                  Thaddeus of 
                                Warsaw
                            
                  
                  2 V.
                  .621/2
                  
               
               
                  
                  Arabian Nights
                  2 V.
                  .621/2
                  
               
               
                  
                  Lights & Shadows Scottish Life
                  
                  .311/4
                  
               
               
                  
                  Romance of Histy.
                  2 V.
                  .66
               
            
            On motion S. Judah & J. Kuykendall were appd. a Committee to class the [books] number them
                    and make a new Catalogue.
            
            February 4th 1833
            At the annual Meeting of the Share holders of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Library this day held, agreeable to their Charter—there was present: Elias
                    McNamee, John B. Martin, Samuel Smith, John F. Snapp, John Law, Thomas C. Bailey, Richard P. Price,
                    Elihu Stout, Archibald Simpson, Wm. Burtch, Henry D. Wheeler, Genl. W. Johnston, John D. Woolverton.
            Which said meeting was organized by the appointment of Elias McNamee President—Chairman of
                    the meeting It was then resolved that this meeting proceed to the election of Officers for the
                    ensuing year, whereupon after counting the votes, it appeared that Elias McNamee was chosen
                    President; Samuel Smith, John Law, Thoms. C. Bailey, John Badollet, Genl. W. Johnston, Directors;
                    and George W. Ewing, Librarian.
            On motion Resolved that the Librarian cause to be printed one hundred copies of the Catalogue
                    complete up to this date, on fine letter paper, leaving a blank of two pages at the end of each
                    different description of books, and that he furnish each subscriber, with one copy so soon as they
                    are finished.
            On further motion Resolved that a committee of three be appointed by the Chairman, whose duty it
                    shall be, to call upon Samuel Hill the former Librarian, and make a full and final settlements of
                    accounts with him as such Librarian and that they report to the first monthly meetings of the
                    Directors, the result of the same,—Whereupon Genl. W. Johnson Saml. Smith and John B.
                    Martin was nominated by the Chairman as such Committee.
            Ordered that this meeting do now adjourn.
            February 9th 1833
            Special Meeting of the Directors of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Library. Present: Elias McNamee, President; John Law, Saml. Smith, G. W. Johnston,
                    Directors.
            On motion Ordered that the Librarian receive from Dr. Elias McNamee the Memoirs of De Wit 
                        Clinton
                     for which sd. McNamee is to receive a credit of two dollars, on ac't. of his
                    yearly contributions.
            On motion Ordered that the Librarian cause suits to be instituted for all sums due the 
                        Vincennes
                     Library, if not paid by the first day of March next.
            
            On Motion Ordered that the contributions for the years 1831 & 1832 due from Saml. Hill
                    amounting to four dollars, be and the same are hereby remitted.
            On Motion Ordered that the account of Mr. Saml. Hill & Messrs. Hill & Cadington for
                    printing amounting to fifteen dollars & forty cents, be and the same are hereby allowed, for
                    which the Librarian is authorized to credit the acct. of Saml. Hill.
            Adjourned.
            Geo. W. Ewing Librarian.
            [October 15, 1833]
            At a Special Meeting of the Directors held this day October 15th 1833 present: Elias McNamee
                    President, John Badollett, & John Law.
            Ordered That the Librarian pay the balance due for subscription to the North American Review, and
                    have the work discontinued.
            Ordered That the Librarian procure for the Library the following works— Continuation of
                    Malte Brun's Geography—the remaining volumes of the Encyclopedia
                    Americana—the additional Volumes of Niles Register for
            1832 & 1833—A full sett of Scotts Novels; And Landers expedition to Africa.
            Ordered That John Badollet & John Law or either of them be appointed a Committee to select
                    such other works as they may think proper to the amt. of funds on hand.
            Ordered That the Board do now Adjourn.
            Geo. W. Ewing Librarian.
            February 3d 1834
            At a meeting of the shareholders of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Library this day held, agreeable to the Charter of said 
                        Vincennes
                     Library there was present: Richard P. Price, John B. Martin, A. T. Ellis, William
                    Burtch, John Law, Samuel Judah, Elihu Stout, John Moore, John Badollett.
            On motion of John Law Richard P. Price was nominated as Chairman of this meeting in the absence of E.
                    McNamee President—who took the Chair— whereupon George W. Ewing Librarian
                    submitted his Annual Report of the receipts and disbursements of the Library
                    Company—which Report was accepted, and ordered to be filed.
            
            On motion of Mr. Judah Resolved That the following shares in the 
                        Vincennes
                     Library be forfeited for nonpayment of their yearly contributions towit: J. C. S.
                    Harrison, John McClure, Peter Jones, D. C. Johnson.
            On Motion of Mr. Ellis Resolved that the Librarian be authorized and empowered to dispose of a Book
                    press some time previous, conditionally sold to John A. Dardenne.
            On motion This meeting proceeded to the election of officers for the ensuing year and after counting
                    the votes, the Chairman pro. tem. declared John Law, Saml. Judah, Abner T. Ellis, William Burtch and
                    John Moore duly elected Directors for the ensuing year, George W. Ewing Librarian and Richard P.
                    Price President.
            On motion Ordered that this meeting do now adjourn.
            Geo. W. Ewing Librarian.
            February 2nd 1835
            At a meeting of the stockholders of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Library this day held, agreeable to the charter of said 
                        Vincennes
                     Library Company there was present: Elihu Stout, John B. Martin, Joseph B. Somes, John
                    Moore, John Badollet, Wm. J. Heberd, Wm. Burtch, Henry M. Gilham.
            On motion Elihu Stout was nominated Chairman pro tem of this meeting in the absence of R. P. Price
                    Prest. Decd. who took the chair.
            Whereupon on motion This meeting proceeded to the election of Officers for the ensuing year, and
                    after counting the votes, the Chairman pro. tem. declared John Law duly elected
                    President—Joseph Somes John Badollet, Wm. Burtch, A. T. Ellis and John Moore Directors;
                    and George W. Ewing Librarian for the ensuing year.
            On further motion Ordered that this meeting do now adjourn.
            Geo. W. Ewing Librarian.
            [June 17, 1835]
            Meeting of the Directors this 17th day of June A. D. 1835 Present: John Badollet, Wm. Burtch,
                    & Abner T. Ellis.
            On motion of A. T. Ellis Esqr. Ordered that the following Books which were purchased by Messrs.
                    Burtch & Heberd  for the 
                        Vincennes
                     Library be received; as per Bill of the same filed.
            On further motion Ordered that the Librarian cause to be purchased for the 
                        Vincennes
                     Library the 5th volume of Malte Brun's Universal Geography.
            And on further motion Ordered that the Librarian sell and dispose of all copies of works, of which
                    there are duplicate Copies in the Library, as also the copy of Byrons Works.
            A list of the Books which were purchased by Messrs. Burtch & Heberd for the 
                        Vincennes
                     Library Company, & recd. of them by order of the Board of Directors this day
                    made:
            
               
                  1261–87
                  Waverly Novels
                  27 Volumes
                  22.00
               
               
                  1314–7
                  Cuviers Animal Kingdom
                  4 "
                  9.00
               
               
                  1288–90
                  Peter Simple
                  3 "
                  1.75
               
               
                  1291–2
                  Tom Cringles Log
                  3 "
                  1.75
               
               
                  1294–5
                  Pacha
                  2 "
                  1.13
               
               
                  
                  John Marsten Hall
                  
                  1.
               
               
                  
                  Combe on Health
                  
                  .45
               
               
                  
                  Anastasius
                  
                  .90
               
               
                  
                  Last days of Pompei
                  
                  .45
               
               
                  1296–7
                  Cruise of Midge
                  2 "
                  1.25
               
               
                  
                  Lander's 
                                Niger
                            
                  
                  2 "
                  .90
               
               
                  
                  Smiths Thucidides
                  2 "
                  3.00
               
               
                  
                  Abercrombie on the Intelectual powers
                  .45
               
               
                  
                  History of the Jews
                  3 "
                  1.25
               
               
                  
                  History of Insects
                  1 "
                  .45
               
               
                  
                  Demonology
                  1 "
                  .45
               
               
                  
                  Polar Seas
                  1 "
                  .45
               
               
                  1318–22
                  Curiosities of Literature
                  5 "
                  4.50
               
               
                  
                  Helen
                  1 "
                  .65
               
               
                  1298–9
                  Burn's Travels
                  2 "
                  1.50
               
               
                  
                  Malte Brun's Un. Geogr.
                  1 "
                  2.00
               
               
                  
                  Says Political Economy
                  1 "
                  1.75
               
               
                  
                  Two Old Mens Tales
                  
                  .90
               
               
                  
                  Scotts 
                                Scotland
                            
                  
                  2 "
                  1.25
               
               
                  
                  Dunglisons Hygeine
                  1 "
                  3.00
               
               
                  
                  Chitty Med. Juris
                  1 "
                  3.25
               
               
                  1301–13
                  Encyclopedia Americana
                  13 "
                  26.00
               
               
                  
                  Cavendish
                  
                  .85
               
               
                  
                  Byrons Works
                  8 "
                  2.50
               
               
                  
                  Ross first voyage of Discovery
                  1 "
                  10.00
               
               
                  
                  Niles Register vol.
                            40–1–2–3–4–5–6 & 7
                  25.00
               
            
            And the Board adjourned.
            Geo. W. Ewing Librarian.
            
            February 1st 1836
            At the annual meeting of the Shareholders of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Library Company held on this day agreeably to the rules for the government of said
                    Company, there were present: John Badollet, William Burtch, Jesse K. Dubois, Nicholas Smith, Henry
                    D. Wheeler, William J. Heberd, Abner T. Ellis, Thomas C. Baily, & Joseph Somes.
            Whereupon on motion and by consent of all present Dr. Joseph Somes was nominated as Chairman pro.
                    tem. of this meeting in the absence of John Law the President of the Board of Directors who took the
                    Chair and called the meeting to order— Whereupon the Librarian submitted his account
                    current, exhibiting a statement of the monies received, and expended by him since his last report to
                    the shareholders, shewing a Balance in his hands, this 1st day of Feby. 1836 of $40.79,
                    which was approved of and On motion, Ordered to be received and filed.
            The Librarian Reported to this meeting the sale which he had made of the Copy of Byrons Works to
                    Henry D. Wheeler for two dollars & fifty cents, agreeable to an order of the Board of
                    Directors made the 17 June 1835, which was approved of.
            The meeting then proceeded to the election of officers for the current year, when upon counting the
                    ballots the following persons were declared to be duly elected, viz.: John Law, President; Geo. W.
                    Ewing, Librarian; John Badollet, Abner T. Ellis, H. D. Wheeler, Joseph Somes, & John B.
                    Martin, Directors.
            And on motion the meeting then adjourned.
            Geo. W. Ewing Librarian.
            February 6th 1837
            At an annual meeting of the Share holders of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Library Company held on this day agreeable to the rules for the government of said
                    Company there were present: John Law, Henry D. Wheeler, Joseph Somes, Elihu Stout, Nicholas Smith,
                    William Burtch, & William J. Heberd.
            Whereupon John Law President of the Board of Directors took the chair and organized the meeting.
            
            George W. Ewing Librarian submitted his account current, exhibiting a statement of the monies
                    received and expended by him since his last annual report, shewing a balance in his hands of
                        $53.911/2 which was approved of and ordered to be filed.
            On motion of Joseph Somes—Resolved, that all accounts due the Library be forthwith placed
                    with an officer for immediate collection.
            On further motion of J. Somes Resolved, that the following share holders in the 
                        Vincennes
                     Library Company be forfeited for the non payment of their yearly contributions to wit:
                    Henry M. Gilham, Hyacinthe Lasselle, William E. Breading, Abraham F. Snapp and Samuel Smith.
            Whereupon on motion This meeting then proceeded to the election of a President, Five Directors and a
                    Librarian for the ensuing year, and after counting the votes, the chairman declared the result as
                    follows, to wit: John Law, President; A. T. Ellis, Joseph Somes, H. D. Wheeler, John Badollet,
                    & John B. Martin, Directors; George W. Ewing, Librarian.
            And on motion this meeting then adjourned sine die.
            Geo. W. Ewing Librarian.
            [February 11, 1837]
            Special meeting of the Board of Directors held at the Library Room February 11th A. D. 1837 Present:
                    John Law, Prest.; John Badollet, Joseph Somes, H. D. Wheeler, Abner T. Ellis, Directors.
            On motion A. T. Ellis was chosen Secretary pro. tem.
            On motion of Mr. Wheeler it was ordered that Joseph Somes be allowed the sum of two
                        dollars and fifty cents to be credited on his a/c for the "Memoirs of
                        Vidocque" 2 vols.— & "Hunch
                    back—" 2 vols.
            On further motion Resolved That Joseph Somes and H. D. Wheeler be appointed a committee to procure
                    such specimens of natural history—and minerals—embracing every variety of Iron
                    lead silver copper, & lead coal and other ores and all other specimens calculated to throw
                    light upon the natural and geological history and particularly of this state as they can procure by
                    donation or otherwise and place the same in the Library as the foundation of a cabinet of natural
                         history and that it be recommended to the share holders to
                    aid them in this object each specimen to be marked with the name of the Donor.
            Resolved—that John Badollet Esq.—open a communication with Mr. Le Seur relative
                    to his proposition in regard to the Fossil Bones now in the Library, and allow him to take a copy of
                    the same, and also request of him any duplicate specimens he may have of minerals or objects of
                    natural [history] for the Library—the same to be marked as presented by Mr. Le Seur
                    should the donation be made.
            Resolved further that John Law, John Badollet and Abner T. Ellis be appointed a committee with
                    authority for the present year to select and order such books and periodicals as they shall think
                    proper taking into consideration the financial concerns of the Library.
            Resolved further that Joseph Somes, H. D. Wheeler and Abner T. Ellis be appointed a committee to
                    confer with the Board of Trustees and principal of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Academy upon the subject and terms of the removal of the Library to the Academy
                    building and its regulation in the same with authority to conclude such an arrangement as they shall
                    think for the interest of the Library—and to report their doings therein.
            adjourned—to meet on the call of the Prest. or in pursuance of the bye Laws.
            
               
                        Vincennes
                     Feb. 11th 1837
            A. T. Ellis Secy.—pro tem
            John Law President.
            Novr. 27th 1837
            At a meeting of Board of Directors this day held, present: John B. Martin, Pres. pro tem; Jos. Somes,
                    A. T. Ellis.
            Resolved That George R. Gibson be appointed to fill the vacancy in the Directory occasioned by the
                    decease of John Badollet Esqr.
            Resolved That Jos. Somes, John B. Martin & Geo. R. Gibson be appointed a committee to procure
                    a table, chairs & such other furniture as they may think proper for the Library.
            Resolved, That Geo. W. Ewing Librarian pay over to A. T. Ellis for the purpose of purchasing Books
                    the sum of One Hundred dollars.
            
            And Resolved further that John B. Martin Geo. R. Gibson and Jos. Somes be appointed a Committee to
                    review and report a Code of By Laws for the regulation of the Library.
            Geo. W. Ewing Librarian.
            February 5th 1838
            At an annual meeting of the Share holders of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Library Company this day held agreably to the rules for the Government of said Company,
                    there was present: John D. Hay, Wm. Burtch, A. Badollet, Saml. Hill, Jos. Somes, John B. Martin,
                    John Moore, Wm. J. Heberd, Geo. R. Gibson, H. D. Wheeler.
            Which was organized by choosing John D. Hay Chairman of this meeting, and Geo. W. Ewing secretary.
            Whereupon George W. [Ewing] Librarian submitted his account current, of the monies received and
                    expended since his last annual report, shewing a balance in his hands of
                    $18.20—which on motion, was approved of, and ordered to be filed.
            On motion of Mr. Martin—It was resolved That the Directors be instructed to employ some
                    suitable person, to prepare a full catalogue of all the books now belonging to this company, and
                    cause a suitable number of copies to be printed for the use of the Share holders—said
                    books to be arranged a new if necessary.
            On motion of S. Hill Esq.—It was resolved—That George W. Ewing our late
                    Librarian be presented with a Share in the Library for his services to this Company; and also that
                    the Thanks of the Share holders be presented to him for his attention to their interest.
            On motion, This meeting proceeded to the election of Officers for the ensuing year— (and)
                    after counting the votes the Chairman pro tem declared the result as follows, to wit: Saml. Hill,
                    President; Reed Wilkison, Librarian; A. T. Ellis, Geo. R. Gibson, Jos. Somes, J. B. Martin, Geo. W.
                    Ewing, Directors.
            whereupon, this meeting adjourned.
            Geo. W. Ewing Secretary
            Samuel Hill Prest.
            
            Feb. 6. 1838
            At a meeting of the President & Directors present: Samuel Hill, President; Reed Wilkinson,
                    Secretary; A. T. Ellis, J. B. Martin, G. W. Ewing, Joseph Somes, & G. R. Gibson, Directors.
            John Moore's a/c for furnishing table for use of Library $8.00 allowed.
            Jona. Smiley's a/c for chairs $10.00 allowed.
            A. T. Ellis from the committee to purchase Books reported as follows,
            "The Committee to whom had been referred the selecting and purchasing of books for the
                    Library report the following list which have been purchased—and of which with the
                    expences of the removal of the Library A. T. Ellis has rendered an a/c from which it appears there
                    is a balance in his hands of the $100, paid him by the Treasurer of $21.77.
            Feb. 6. 1838 {For Reported a/c see next page} A. T. Ellis"
            On motion of G. W. Ewing it was
            "Resolved, That a Treasurer be appointed whose duty it shall be to demand and receive all
                    monies due for annual contributions, fines assessed, or shares sold belonging to or due the Library
                    Company and pay the same on an order of the President and Directors—who shall keep a
                    regular account of his receipts & disbursements and shall lay the same before the
                    Shareholders at their annual meeting.
            And resolved further, That the Librarian be relieved from such duty as is by the forgoing resolutions
                    given to the Treasurer.
            Resolved further—That it shall be the duty of the Treasurer to procure a book to enter all
                    Shareholders, and the several transfers that may be made from time to time."
            On motion the Directors proceeded to the choice of a Treasurer when G. W. Ewing was duly elected.
            On motion of A. T. Ellis it was Resolved—" That a Committee be appointed to
                    ascertain the names of the present shareholders and report the same to the next meeting.
            Resolved further—That a committee of two be appointed with the assistance of the President
                    and Librarian to make or procure to be made a Catalogue of the Library for publication—to
                    which is to be prefixed the Charter and Amendments with the Bye Laws.
            
            Resolved further—That said Committee be authorized and empowered to contract for the
                    printing of Nos. for the books—as also for the printing of Catalogues to the number of
                    200 on good foolscap paper with blank leaves for the addition of new books to each department.
                    Resolved further—that none of said Catalogues be delivered to shareholders, or otherwise
                    except on the payment of 25 cents.
            Resolved further—That said Committee select and set aside for sale all duplicate books in
                    the Library, and such others as are not fit for use and report a list of the same."
            The Chair appointed A. T. Ellis & G. W. Ewing.
            Account reported by the committee on the purchase of books, mentioned two pages back.
            "
                        Vincennes
                     Library
            In a/c with A. T. Ellis Dr.
            1838 [i.e., 1837]
            
               
                  Aug. 30.
                  To am't. paid Jona. Taylor for self & boy in removing Library to the
                            Academy
                  $ 1.50
               
               
                  Sep. 16.
                  To am't. paid P. M. Donnilly about the same
                  3.00
               
               
                  1838.
                  Bill of Books purchased of
                  
               
               
                  Jany. 6
                  Burgess & Crane &C.
                  71.63
               
               
                  "
                  Freight on same
                  1.50
               
               
                  "
                  Balance due Vin. Library
                  22.37
               
               
                  1837. Cr.
                  
                  $100.00
               
               
                  Nov. 28.
                  By am't. recd. of G. W. Ewing
                  100.00
               
            
            The following is a list of the Books mentioned in the above Bill:
            
               
                  1 Sett Pickwick
                  
                  
                  $2.00
               
               
                  1 Liebur Letters
                  
                  
                  1.50
               
               
                  1 Stuart's Travels
                  
                  
                  1.00
               
               
                  1 Colovar [?]
                  
                  
                  1.25
               
               
                  1 Horse Shoe Robinson
                  
                  
                  1.25
               
               
                  1 Fielding
                  
                  
                  1.75
               
               
                  1 Venitia
                  
                  
                  1.50
               
               
                  3 Vol's. Plays
                  
                  
                  1.50
               
               
                  1 Hawks of H. Hollow
                  
                  
                  1.25
               
               
                  1 Coleridge's Works
                  3 vol's.
                  
                  2.75
               
               
                  1 Nick of the Woods
                  2 vol's.
                  
                  1.63
               
               
                  1 Life of Jefferson
                  2 "
                  
                  6.00
               
               
                  1 Gall's Works
                  6 "
                  
                  5.50
               
               
                  1 Sett F. Library
                  82 "
                  50 cts.
                  41.00
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  $70.38
               
            
            Samuel Hill Prest.
            
            April 17th 1838.
            At a meeting of the Directors this day held present: Saml. Hill, Prest.; J. B. Martin, Joseph Somes,
                    A. T. Ellis, Geo. R. Gibson, Directors.
            On motion Geo. R. Gibson was appointed Secretary pro. Tem.
            Joseph Somes, from the Committee appointed to revise and report a code of By-Laws, for the regulation
                    of the Library, at the Novr. Session 1837—made a Report which was Read, approved of and
                    ordered to be printed with the Catalogue.
            On motion of A. T. Ellis the following amendment was made thereto—
            Sec. 14— The following standing committees of Three each shall be annually appointed by
                    the President viz.:
            
               a Committee on finance
               a Committee on Books.
               a Committee on Library room and furniture.
            
            Saml. Hill reported a Catalogue of the Books belonging to the Company—which was accepted
                    and ordered to be printed.
            whereupon this meeting adjourned.
            Geo. R. Gibson Secy.
            Samuel Hill Prest.
            June 28. 1838.
            At a meeting of the Board of Directors of 
                        Vincennes
                     Library Company, Present: Samuel Hill, Prest.; Joseph Somes, A. T. Ellis, J. B. Martin,
                    Geo. R. Gibson, Directors.
            Ordered that the following books be received and numbered as follows:
            
               
                  
                  
                  No.
                  price
               
               
                  Life of Aaron Burr
                  2 Vols.
                  1535–6
                  $5.00
               
               
                  The Robber
                  2 Vols.
                  1537–8
                  1.25
               
               
                  The Pickwick Club
                  5th. Vol.
                  
                  .75
               
               
                  Alice, by Bulwer
                  2 Vols.
                  1539–40
                  .75
               
               
                  Lelia
                  1 Vol.
                  
                  .75
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  8.50
               
            
            Ordered that A. T. Ellis be credited with the price of the above books in his a/c with the Company.
                    (See No. 6.)
            Whereupon the Board adjourned.
            R. Wilkinson—Sec'y.
            Samuel Hill Prest.
            
            
               
                        Vincennes
                     Oct. 6 1838
            At a meeting of the Board of Directors of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Library Co. held this day Present: Samuel Hill, President; A. T. Ellis, J. B. Martin,
                    G. R. Gibson, Directors.
            On motion the Board proceeded to fill the vacancy therein caused by the death of George W. Ewing
                    Esqr. when Jno. Law was declared duly elected a Director.
            The Board then proceeded to the choice of a Treasurer in place of George W. Ewing Esqr. deceased,
                    when Jn. B. Martin was declared duly elected Treasurer.
            On Motion of Mr. Law. It was Resolved That all the Books Papers and other Documents, connected with
                    the financial concerns of the Library be handed over to J. B. Martin our Treasurer.
            On motion of Mr. Law. It was Resolved that the Treasurer be requested to make out a list of all the Stockholders, the amount due from each—and the names of those
                    whose shares it would be good policy to forfeit.
            On motion of Mr. Gibson. Resolved that the Treasurer pay to R. Y. Caddington the sum of Thirty
                    Dollars for printing the Catalogue of Books in the Library out of the first monies in his hands.
            On motion of S. Hill Resolved That the Catalogues be deposited with the Treasurer.
            On motion of Mr. Hill. Resolved. That this association regret the decease of their late venerable and
                    worthy President Jn. Badollet Esqr. and that a list of the Books bequeathed by him to this
                    institution be registered on the minute book and numbered with the Books of the Library and that all
                    contributions due from the deceased be remitted to this date.
            
               Donation from Jn. Badollet Esqr.
               
                  1541 to 1556
                  Les Oeuvres De Rosseau Vols. 1. 2. 7. 9. 10. 12. 13. 14. 15. 16. 19. 20. 21. 22. 23
               
               
                  1557
                  Rosseau's Letters
               
               
                  1558 to 1560
                  L'Hermite de La Chaussee A'Antin
               
               
                  1561 to 1564
                  Romans et Contes De Voltaire
               
               
                  1565–6
                  La Religieuse
               
               
                  1567–70
                  Le Compere Mathieu
               
               
                  1571
                  Voltaire's Epistres Stances et Odes
               
               
               
                  1572 to 1574
                  Recherches sur Nature et Les Causes de la
               
               
                  
                  Richesse 2. 3 & 5 Vol.
               
               
                  1575
                  Oeuvres de Bolieu Vol. 74 [?]
               
               
                  1576
                  Oeuvres Diverses du D'Espreox [?]
               
               
                  1577
                  Tables Portatives of Logarithmes
               
               
                  1578
                  Le Guide Des Seunes [?] Mathematiciens
               
               
                  1579
                  La Trigonometrie Rectiligne & Spherique
               
               
                  1580
                  La Science Des Ombres
               
               
                  1581
                  L'An Deux Mille quartre cent quarante
               
               
                  1582 to 1586
                  Cours de Mathematiques
               
               
                  1587
                  Essai d'une methode pour apprendre a jouer de la Flute traversiere
               
               
                  1588 to 1594
                  Histoire Universelle Vols. 1 2 3 4 5 6–8
               
               
                  1595
                  Voyages en 
                                France
                            
                  
               
               
                  1596–7
                  L'Hermite De La Guiane
               
               
                  1598
                  Lettres sur le etat presant du Christianisme
               
               
                  1599
                  Recherches sur les Principes de la Morale
               
               
                  1600–1
                  Theorie des Peines et des Recompenses
               
               
                  1602
                  Lecons elementaires D'Optique
               
               
                  1603
                  Lecons elementaires De Mathematiques
               
               
                  1604–5
                  Etas Unis D' L'Amerique
               
               
                  1606
                  Historie Philosophique et Politique
               
               
                  1607
                  Dialogues of Lucian
               
            
            Samuel Hill President.
            
               
                        Vincennes
                     3 Nov. 1838
            At a meeting of the Board of Directors of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Library Company this day present: Samuel Hill, President; Abner T. Ellis, Joseph Somes,
                    John Law, J. B. Martin, G. R. Gibson, Directors.
            On motion it was resolved That Stephen's incidint of travel in 
                        Egypt
                        Syria
                     &c. be received from Revd. Mr. Crosby for his annual Subscription the present
                    year and that they to be delivered to the Librar[ian] and number'd:
            1608–9 Stephens Incidents of travel in 
                        Egypt
                        Syria
                     &c. 2 v.
            On motion it was resolved That Stephen's Incidents of Travel in 
                        Greece
                     Russia and 
                        Poland
                     2 Vols. be accepted & received from John Law Esqr. for his annual subscription
                    for the present year and that they be deliverd the Librarian numbered:
            1610–11 Stephen's Incidents of Travel in 
                        Greece
                     Russia & 
                        Poland
                    
            
            Samuel Hill Prest.
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Natural Features of Indiana. Edited by Alton A. Lindsey. Indiana
                        Academy of Science Indiana Sesquicentennial Volume, 1816–1966. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Academy of Science, 1966. Pp. xxix, 600. Illustrations, figures, maps, tables,
                    index. $4.00.)
            Science has played a key role in the development of modern civilization. It is therefore appropriate
                    that the Indiana Academy of Science should participate in the sesquicentennial celebration of the
                    State of Indiana, whose economic growth and development owe so much to the work of its scientists.
            The academy's participation in this celebration took the form of a special symposium at 
                        Wabash
                     College, followed by this commemorative volume in which the papers presented at that
                    time are published. The papers summarize the present knowledge regarding the natural resources of
                    the state and what is being done with and to these resources. Some forty-four scientists served as
                    authors or coauthors of these papers. They came from fifteen colleges and universities in the state,
                    as well as from governmental and other agencies, and included outstanding leaders in the various
                    fields represented. These authors were asked to prepare their papers with the general public in mind
                    so that the published version would be of widespread value to the citizens of Indiana. This they
                    have done with considerable success.
            The volume was edited by Alton A. Lindsey who also contributed the opening chapter dealing with the
                    Indiana scene of 150 years ago. This furnishes a fitting background against which to measure and
                    evaluate the changes that have occurred during the past century and a half.
            The thirty-three chapters cover a wide range of subjects, the emphasis in all cases being on the
                    natural environment. Thus, the broad fields of geology and geography, meteorology, biology,
                    anthropology, forestry, and agriculture are stressed, whereas laboratory sciences, such as physics,
                    chemistry, and mathematics are not included.
            In the fields of geology and geography there are articles on bedrock geology, the ice ages and their
                    effect on the land, physiography, soils, lakes and streams, ground water, caves, and mineral
                    resources. Chapters on climate and bioclimate follow. In the area of biology, chapters are devoted
                    to the algae, fleshy fungi, plant diseases, lower green land plants, higher plants, plant
                    communities, forestry, limnology, insects, invertebrates other than insects, animal parasites,
                    insect pests, cave fauna, fishes, amphibians and reptiles, birds, and mammals. Anthropological
                    interest centers on chapters dealing with the cultural and racial history of the Indians. There are
                    articles devoted to changing patterns in agriculture, population, and the state park system.
            It can thus be seen that the coverage is broad indeed. The reader will find that the various chapters
                    paint a vivid picture of Indiana geography, soils, climatic characteristics, agricultural practices
                    and position, mineral resources, and plant and animal life. Considerable emphasis is laid on the
                    importance of conserving, so far as possible,  the natural
                    heritage. To quote from Lindsey's introductory chapter— "thoughtful
                    trusteeship, not all-out technological bludgeoning of Nature, is needed from now on. … We
                    serve our continuing interests better by respecting, understanding and working along with natural
                    processes than by ignoring or opposing them. A square deal for environment is essential for future
                    prosperity and viability …" (p. xxvii).
            This unique and attractive volume is a fitting contribution to the celebration of Indiana's
                    150th birthday.
            
               Indiana University Ralph E. Cleland
         
         
            
               Hoosier Disciples: A Comprehensive History of the Christian Churches (Disciples of
                        Christ) in Indiana. By Henry K. Shaw ([
                        St. Louis
                    ]: The Bethany Press, for the Association of the Christian Churches in Indiana, 1966.
                    Pp. 535. Notes, illustrations, appendices, bibliography, index. $7.50.)
            If Hoosier Disciples had continued their early policy of avoiding written records relating to their
                    beliefs and activities, the author of the present volume would have been in for a frustrating
                    experience. A report of the 1829 Indiana Christian Conference typifies their reluctance to put
                    anything down in writing: "The brethren, after conversing freely, unanimously agreed, to
                    lay aside the Minute-Book for the present, for the following reason, viz: That some of our dear
                    brethren were opposed to it" (p. 34). The Disciples wanted no creedal interpretations or
                    written commentary that might pose a threat to the Bible's "pure"
                    contents and the individual's right to seek his salvation in the Scriptures. As a corollary
                    to this conviction, they hoped to avoid any kind of church organization that might force uniformity
                    among the brethren.
            Conditions on the frontier encouraged such spiritual independence, and the success of the Disciples
                    of Christ is evidence that a large segment of the frontier population found it appealing. But as the
                    conditions which prompted the Disciples movement began to alter, so did the movement itself.
                    "Through bitter experience they learned that their cherished freedom often led to
                    fragmentation…. The primary struggle by Hoosier Disciples for a century and a quarter was
                    a search for guide lines of effective cooperation" (pp. 468–69). Thus, in many
                    respects, Shaw's book is an account of an "anti-institutional" religious
                        movement transforming itself into a modern, complex religious institution.
            
            
               Hoosier Disciples is more chronicle than comprehensive history. It is a factual,
                    period-by-period summarization of the Indiana Disciples of Christ churches from their origin during
                    the Indiana territorial years through 1965. Shaw traces not only the evolution of the central
                    governing body of the association, but he also records the development of several ancillary
                    organizations and agencies which are now integral parts of the Disciples' efforts in
                    Indiana. These include the United Christian Mission Society, the Christian Theological Seminary, and 
                        Butler
                     University. The data required to depict all of this becomes almost encyclopedic in
                    scope.
            
            The author has had access to excellent source materials which have been collected over many decades
                    at the Christian Theological Seminary and other Disciples' depositories in the 
                        Indianapolis
                     area. His position as librarian at the seminary provides the perspective, if not always
                    the objectivity, necessary in preparing such an ambitious book. As indicated by the footnotes, Shaw
                    has relied most heavily on various periodicals published by the Disciples, beginning with Barton W.
                    Stone's Christian Messenger of the 1820's. The finished work
                    demonstrates the informational value of such sources for the historian.
            The book should attract members of the Disciples' persuasion, for much of its content is
                    designed for them. The non-Disciple can make use of it too, particularly if he is interested in
                    tracing the elusive trends which have resulted in the present religious synthesis in the Hoosier
                    State.
            A central theme of the book, more implied than stated, is the accommodation of rural viewpoints to
                    urban circumstances. How the Disciples and other religious groups have managed to accomplish this to
                    the degree they have remains an intriguing facet of social history.
            This reviewer caught a few factual and typographical errors in the 469 page narrative, but
                    considering the mass of material dealt with these are pardonable. Shaw might be criticized for a
                    plodding style, especially near the close of the volume when he attempts to crowd in the more recent
                    events. But this criticism might also be leveled at the writers of the Book of
                    Kings and the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle.
            
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Kokomo
                        
                Victor M. Bogle
         
         
            
               The Letters of George Catlin and his Family: A Chronicle of the American West.
                    By Marjorie Catlin Roehm. (
                        Berkeley
                    : University of 
                        California
                     Press, 1966. Pp. xxi, 463. Notes, illustrations, appendices, index. $8.50.)
            Unquestionably the best known name among the several artists who painted American Indians and western
                    subjects in the nineteenth century is George Catlin. His unusual career, indomitable spirit, and
                    extraordinary achievements made him an intriguing figure during his lifetime and a fascinating
                    subject for historians and biographers in recent years. Since Lloyd Haberley's Pursuit of the Horizon appeared in 1948, five books dealing with Catlin's life
                    and work have been published, the latest being this one by Marjorie Catlin Roehm.
            Previous authors have relied for their information on Catlin's own extensive writings and on
                    old newspaper and magazine articles. Very few letters were known. The approach to the subject and
                    the manner of telling the story varied according to each biographer's viewpoint, but they
                    all used the same source material.
            This book is entirely different. As might be expected from the title, it is a compilation of letters
                    written by different members of the Catlin family, chronologically arranged, and tied together with
                    brief historical notes that enable the reader to grasp better the sequence of events. The letters
                    are intended to throw as much new light as possible  on George
                    Catlin; but the pivotal figure is his father Putnam, whose letters to different members of the
                    family seem to contain the most news about the clan. They also contain the admonitions, hopes, and
                    fears of a devoted but stern father. One does not get far into the book before 
                        Putnam
                     and his flock come to life.
            According to the Preface, all of the letters written by George appear in their entirety because of
                    his greater importance. Many letters by other Catlins have been omitted because they have little or
                    no bearing on the artist's career. Most members of the family wrote well, but it is not the
                    literary style of the epistles that gives the book its significance. The correspondence helps to
                    fill in certain gaps in George's activities and to clarify or correct some previous
                    statements about him. The general reader, whether interested in pioneer painters or not, will
                    doubtless find that the letters reveal in an intriguing way the personal relationships of members of
                    a good, forthright American family living in the middle years of the nineteenth century.
            These letters were only recently discovered in an old, small trunk. The author, a granddaughter of
                    George Catlin's youngest brother Francis, has compiled the material with skill and
                    discrimination; and she is to be commended upon the straightforward and candid commentaries
                    sprinkled throughout the book. The lives of her ancestors have not been glossed over nor tinted with
                    rosy colors.
            If the reader is introduced to George Catlin through this book of letters rather than through one of
                    the previously published biographical narratives, he would do well to read one of the
                    latter—particularly one that is well illustrated. Otherwise he has no idea of the style,
                    quality, or appearance of the paintings and drawings themselves. After all, it is the work of the artist that really counts.
            
               Herron Museum of Art, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                Wilbur D. Peat
         
         
            
               The Politics of State Expenditure in 
                            Illinois
                        . By Thomas J. Anton. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1966. Pp. viii, 286. Notes, tables, appendix, index. $6.75.)
            For many students of government management and finance, this book will almost certainly be
                    disturbing, for its findings are anything but orthodox. It is this very aspect of the study,
                    however, which is most intriguing. Anton's subject is the process of making expenditure
                    decisions for state government in 
                        Illinois
                     for the 1963–1965 biennium. He treats these expenditure decisions as a
                    social action system and acknowledges the influence of the Parsonian school. In delineating his area
                    of concern, he specifically limits his study to observation of state officials charged with the
                    budgeting and appropriating process and confines his examination to "general-fund"
                    expenditures. While he does not attempt to examine the operation of the decision system over time,
                    he provides adequate historical background.
            One of the most striking findings of the study, and one that Anton acknowledges as highly
                    significant, is that the 
                        Illinois
                     budgeting and appropriating system has almost no relationship to the substantive
                    programs  or policies of state agencies. Major policy changes
                    with significant expenditure implications must come from outside the budgeting-appropriating system,
                    since the very structure of the system is biased against change. The major values of the system
                    include such ideas as balancing the budget and routinely cutting agency requests at the review
                    stage; its forms are focused on the "book," or budget document, and appropriation
                    bills in the legislature. Evaluation of agency performance or public service needs is not relevant.
            As in all decision making, key elements in the 
                        Illinois
                     expenditure system are the store of available information and the communications
                    network. By virtue of nearly complete control of both, the budget superintendent becomes one of the
                    most powerful actors. His influence is exceeded only by that of the governor; but since the latter
                    is frequently a relative newcomer, he suffers because of lack of detailed knowledge of the game.
            Other major findings are that the remaining formal participants— primarily the budget
                    review commission and the legislators—simply do not have sufficient information or time
                    to consider the policy implications of expenditure proposals and that the 
                        Illinois
                     system falls far short of the standard models of budgeting.
            This summary review of the author's conclusions tends to obscure the relatively heavy
                    theoretical emphasis of the book. Anton does a careful job of discussing his subject in terms of his
                    chosen conceptual framework, and he does not claim to develop a new model which might fit the events
                    he describes. The latter is a little disappointing, but such an attempt would probably have made the
                    task unmanageable as a single project.
            Because the study hews so carefully to its defined objectives, some of the more exciting aspects of
                    expenditure decisions, such as the process by which it was decided to undertake a major expansion of
                    the mental health program, and some of the other influence patterns, such as legislator-agency
                    relationships and the role of interest groups, are necessarily left aside. It is interesting to
                    speculate what meaning Anton's findings and future studies of a comparative nature may have
                    for attempts already under discussion to graft the new federal concept of the "planning,
                    programming, budgeting system" onto state and local patterns of expenditure decisions.
            
               University of 
                            Washington
                        
                Barbara Byers Howard
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Lincoln
                        's Preparation for Greatness: The 
                            Illinois
                         Legislative Years. By Paul Simon. (
                        Norman
                    : University of 
                        Oklahoma
                     Press, 1965. Pp. xv, 335. Notes, illustrations, index. $6.95.)
            Despite the vast number of published works about 
                        Lincoln
                    , historians have paid little attention to his long and active role in 
                        Illinois
                     politics, especially to his four terms in the 
                        Illinois
                     legislature. Paul Simon, a publisher of several weekly newspapers and a member of the 
                        Illinois
                     legislature since 1954, has attempted, with partial success, to fill this void.
            
            Although Simon has utilized the most important of the numerous secondary accounts bearing on his
                    subject, he has relied mainly on primary sources. These include the records of the 
                        Illinois
                     House of Representatives for the four sessions in which Lincoln was a member
                    (1834–1841); surviving issues of the Sangamo Journal, 
                            Illinois
                         State Register, and other leading 
                        Illinois
                     newspapers of the period; the Basier edition of The Collected Works of
                        Abraham 
                            Lincoln
                        
               ; and both published and unpublished letters of 
                        Lincoln
                    's principal contemporaries. From these sources Simon has succeeded in
                    reconstructing a virtual day by day account of 
                        Lincoln
                    's legislative activities for each session.
            Lincoln was not a great legislator. Simon admits this and suggests that only when a moral issue such
                    as slavery came up was there any hint of 
                        Lincoln
                    's future greatness. During these four terms, however, Lincoln was thoroughly
                    indoctrinated into frontier politics and earned for himself a statewide reputation as a vigorous and
                    effective party leader. His freshman term was of little significance. His major contributions to
                    legislation, however, occurred during his second and third terms. 
                        Lincoln
                     served in the infamous Tenth General Assembly that adopted the fantastic internal
                    improvements program which plunged 
                        Illinois
                     into an unwarranted and extraordinarily burdensome debt. Simon censures 
                        Lincoln
                    , who voted consistently for the internal improvements projects, for his lack of wisdom
                    and foresight. This same session was also responsible for the transfer of the state capital from
                    Vandalia to 
                        Springfield
                    . Here Simon clarifies 
                        Lincoln
                    's role in the intrigue associated with this move and, in general, absolves him
                    from any unethical behind-the-scenes deals.
            Simon is far more successful in chronicling events than in explaining them. Only the most ardent of 
                        Lincoln
                     buffs will bother to read page after page of detailed accounts of 
                        Lincoln
                    's voting record in the house. On occasion Simon raises a question which
                    arouses the curiosity of the reader but then leaves it unanswered. The reader is informed, for
                    example, that in the 1840–1841 session, 
                        Lincoln
                     voted in favor of an unsuccessful measure authorizing a woman in 
                        Vermilion County
                     to give property to the Society of Friends. No explanation of 
                        Lincoln
                    's vote follows nor is the reader ever told why in the absence of such a law
                    the woman could not convey her property to the Quakers.
            Simon's well-researched book is free of glaring factual errors, but not all of the
                    author's assumptions are justified. A reference to a "Little Judge" in an
                    1839 letter is automatically assumed to be a reference to Stephen A. Douglas. Douglas was not
                    elected to the supreme court until 1841 and acquired his title of Judge Douglas at that time. The
                    name "Little Giant" was first applied to him when he became active in 
                        Morgan County
                     politics rather than later when he served with 
                        Lincoln
                     in the Tenth General Assembly as Simon states.
            The University of 
                        Oklahoma
                     Press is to be commended for a very attractive and carefully printed book. Although
                    there is no bibliography, the index is adequate; and the notes are at the bottom of the page where
                    they belong.
            
               Spring Hill College Howard W. Smith
         
         
         
            
               Nauvoo: Kingdom on the 
                            Mississippi
                        . By Robert Bruce Flanders. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1965. Pp. vii, 364. End maps, notes, illustrations, bibliography, index.
                    $6.50.)
            This book is a history of the Mormon settlement in 
                        Illinois
                     as it flourished at Nauvoo from 1839 to 1846. To this site on the Mississippi
                        River north of 
                        Quincy
                    , Joseph Smith led his people after they had failed to build a kingdom on earth either
                    at Kirtland, 
                        Ohio
                    , or in western 
                        Missouri
                     near Independence. In both of these places the Mormons had had trouble with their
                    "gentile" neighbors because the Mormons dominated the local economy, got control
                    of political offices, and outraged non-Mormons by their heterodox religious practices.
            Smith hoped to make Nauvoo a spiritual center for his followers and at the same time develop the area
                    into an agricultural and industrial empire. But he failed to achieve his ambitious goals. The
                    Prophet was killed while in jail awaiting a hearing on a charge that he had broken the laws of 
                        Illinois
                    . In the general uprising that followed the Mormons were forced to leave their homes and
                    businesses. The leadership of the Nauvoo community fell to Brigham Young who eventually formed a
                    Mormon state in the Far West.
            Flanders provides a detailed history of the founding and progress of the Mormons at Nauvoo. He
                    discusses the complicated and sometimes irregular land purchases and sales of the Mormons, and the
                    economic difficulties they experienced; he describes the methods of recruiting new Saints in 
                        England
                    ; and he tells about the tight hold Smith had on the 
                        Nauvoo city
                     government due to a favorable charter given by the 
                        Illinois
                     legislature. Full treatment is also given to the maneuvering of 
                        Illinois
                     politicians to get the Morman vote and the consequent resentment of members of the
                    party which did not get Smith's support. Finally, Flanders describes the disputes and
                    antagonisms that arose among the Mormons themselves. He deals with the matter of plural marriage and
                    notes how this and other matters of theology caused deep divisions among the Mormons and aroused
                    distrust and fear of them by non-Mormons.
            Better than most historians of Joseph Smith and the Mormons, Flanders preserves an objective
                    position. He notes the mistakes made by Smith in temporal matters; but he also points out that it
                    was Smith's charismatic nature that enabled him to be such a vigorous, persuasive, and
                    successful spiritual leader. The book rests upon very complete examination of Mormon and non-Mormon
                    sources, and it brings together the results of modern research in Mormon studies. It does not,
                    however, offer any new explanation for the rise and fall of Nauvoo.
            This work should be a best seller among books of its kind, not only because of its content, but also
                    because the University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press has provided a handsome binding, an end-cover map of old Nauvoo, and a
                    well-selected album of prints and photographs of Nauvoo scenes and leaders.
            
               MacMurray College Walter B. Hendrickson
         
         
         
            
               A Bibliography of 
                            Illinois
                         Imprints, 1814–1858. By Cecil K. Byrd. (
                        Chicago
                    : The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1966. Pp. xxv, 601. Index. $12.50.)
            This inventory of 
                        Illinois
                     imprints includes 3,089 items, ranging from a communication to the 
                        Illinois
                     legislature by Governor Ninian Edwards in 1814 to the constitution and bylaws of the 
                        Chicago
                     YMCA in 1858. The intermediate material is amazingly diversified. In form there are
                    broadsides, leaflets, pamphlets, programs, handbills, and printed books. In content there are legal
                    codes, sermons, addresses, gazetteers, almanacs, prospectuses, directories, college catalogues,
                    petitions, public letters by candidates for office, announcements of concerts, and of course volumes
                    of prose and verse. Thirteen different communities produced printing of one kind or another,
                    beginning with 
                        Kaskaskia
                     and Edwardsville 1814–1820; the first 
                        Chicago
                     imprint listed is dated 1834, a memorial from the citizens of 
                        Cook County
                     to the general assembly calling for a navigable link between Lake
                    Michigan and the Illinois River. By 1858, interestingly enough, 
                        Kaskaskia
                     is missing, Edwardsville appears twice, while 
                        Chicago
                     gets credit for 154 items. In the 44 year period covered by the bibliography 
                        Chicago
                     produced 866 imprints while 
                        Alton
                     had 441, 
                        Springfield
                     286, and 
                        Jacksonville
                     231. No other publishing center had as many as two hundred.
            A volume of this kind is primarily a research tool, the conspicuous virtues of which must be
                    thoroughness and accuracy. Cecil K. Byrd, university librarian at Indiana University, has produced a
                    model book. He has drawn on the resources of over two hundred institutional and municipal libraries
                    plus five private collections. He has examined the books he lists, and he notes at least one
                    location for each item. Sufficiently full bibliographical data are provided for the specialist while
                    the background material is both helpful and interesting. Thus the reader is given succinct but
                    useful biographical accounts of such important early 
                        Illinois
                     figures as Ninian Edwards, Morris Birkbeck, Peter Cart- wright, James Hall, John Mason
                    Peck, and John Reynolds. Material about early newspapers and magazines is presented, and the student
                    of 
                        Illinois
                     political or religious history will find considerable information about his specialty.
                    Certainly the published records of Baptist association meetings account for a substantial number of
                    items.
            The arrangement is properly chronological and the index is thorough. Not only are biographical and
                    geographical names listed, but collective references to poetry and sermons are also given (fiction
                    seems to have been neglected). The titles of newspapers alone comprise three columns of the index.
                    Nevertheless, it might have helped the reader if the authors of verse and fiction had been
                    identified. Only by paging through the volume can one discover that Horatio Cooke published a volume
                    of poems in 
                        Chicago
                     in 1843, that William Asbury Kenyon published another in 1845, and that William H.
                    Bushnell's 
                  
                            Prairie
                         Fire! A Tale of Early 
                            Illinois
                        
                appeared in 
                        Chicago
                     in 1854.
            An enterprise of this nature inevitably produces a strange kettle of fish. Side by side with the
                    legal codes, the directories, the church records, and the lists of lands on which taxes were still
                    due are curious  items which reflect the period covered. Joseph
                    Duncan, for example, issued a broadside in 1837 about his stud horse 
                        Rob Roy
                    . In 1846 the 
                        Jersey County
                     Horse Thief Detecting Society published a list of the members' names, some
                    ninety-eight in all. Three years later an Oquawka horticulturist circulated a catalogue of fruit
                    trees which he offered for sale, and in 1850 the Northern Cross Railroad Company printed a report of
                    its experimental survey from 
                        Quincy
                     to Meredosia. By the 1850's the published programs of McVicker's
                    Theater and Rice's Theater in 
                        Chicago
                     accounted for many items.
            Byrd has produced an invaluable reference volume which is also surprisingly readable. One wonders,
                    however, why the volume ends after forty-four years. The editor states bluntly that there is no
                    historical or bibliographical reason for concluding with the year 1858, and the terminal date seems
                    rather freakish. The 
                        Chicago
                     fire of 1871 might have made a more logical termination. One can only hope for an
                    extension of the work in the future.
            
               University of 
                            Illinois
                        
                John T. Flanagan
         
         
            
               The French in the Mississippi Valley. Edited by John
                    Francis McDermott. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1965. Pp. ix, 247. Notes, illustrations, index. $6.75.)
            Despite the possible inference of the title, this work is not a political discussion of the French
                    regime in the Mississippi Valley. Composed of fourteen papers originally
                    presented at a conference observing the bicentennial of the founding of 
                        St. Louis
                     in 1764, it describes many aspects of the history of New 
                        France
                    : historical, architectural, literary, scientific, and bibliographical. All of the
                    essays are interestingly written and carefully researched. The variations in literary style simply
                    add charm to a volume which is well edited, scholarly, and informative.
            Quite appropriately the first six papers are either directly or tangentially connected with 
                        St. Louis
                    . The next five essays range widely from this central theme, dealing with contributions
                    of the French to the Mississippi Valley in general. The final three papers will
                    perhaps do most to "stimulate other investigations of French activities in the
                        Mississippi Valley" (p. viii): the editor's hope for the
                    work. In these essays Noël Baillargeon, James M. Babcock, and Winston De Ville describe
                    and evaluate the source materials for the history of the French in the Mississippi
                    Valley at, respectively, the Seminaire de Quebec, the 
                        Detroit
                     Public Library (Burton Historical Collection), and various 
                        Louisiana
                     archives.
            Of especial interest to Indiana readers is Father Joseph P. Donnelly's discussion of Father
                    Pierre Gibault. Donnelly credits the "patriot priest" with contributing greatly to
                    the success of 
                        St. Louis
                     and describes his stabilizing influence in the 
                        Illinois
                     Country during the critical period from 1768–1778. Gibault's
                    assistance to George Rogers Clark during the Revolution—which the author feels was not
                    the priest's greatest contribution to the Mississippi
                    Valley—and thus his connection with early Indiana history is briefly detailed.
                    Also related  to Indiana history is Joseph Ewan's study
                    of French naturalists in the Mississippi Valley. Along with John James Audubon,
                    the Michaux, and the Prat brothers, Ewan discusses Gerard Troost, Thomas Say, Charles Alexandre
                    Lesueur, the Maclures, and other naturalists who came to Robert Owen's 
                        New Harmony
                    .
            Two papers in the volume are beautifully illustrated. Charles E. Peterson's architectural
                    description of the houses of 
                        St. Louis
                     during the French era should be technical enough to suit the professional but
                    interesting enough to please the amateur. In a second article, architectural historian Samuel
                    Wilson, Jr., describes colonial fortifications and military architecture in the
                        Mississippi Valley. The innumerable illustrations aid both presentations
                    immeasurably.
            Included in the fourteen essays is a paper describing the life and work of a comparatively unknown
                    French poet. Says Charles E. Guenther of his subject, "It was not extraordinary that among
                    the French immigrants who arrived in upper 
                        Louisiana
                     nearly two centuries ago, some were gifted in arts and letters. Yet it was unusual that
                    a French poet as talented as Pierre Francois Régnier settled here and practiced his
                    craft, far from the cultural base of 
                        Paris
                     where he might have commanded a wider audience" (p. 59). Not only is this
                    possibly the first paper on Régnier, Guenther scores another first by including the
                    hitherto unpublished poetry of this early 
                        St. Louis
                     writer.
            Equally interesting are Dorothy Garesché Holland's description of the immigrants
                    from the French West Indies who settled in 
                        St. Louis
                    , John Francis McDermott's skillful differentiation between myth and reality
                    concerning the founding of 
                        St. Louis
                    , and Richebourg G. McWilliams' story of Mathieu Sagean and Acaaniba,
                    "a kingdom beyond the Rockies and near the 
                        Vermillion
                     Sea" (p. 195). Other papers on the French mountain men
                    who were engaged in the fur trade, French engineers in the Spanish service during the late
                    eighteenth century, and French reactions to the 
                        Louisiana
                     Revolution of 1768 make this a volume which, in truth, has something for everyone.
            
               Indiana University Lorna Lutes Sylvester
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Erie
                         Water West: A History of the 
                            Erie
                         Canal, 1792–1854. By Ronald E. Shaw. (
                        Lexington
                    : University of 
                        Kentucky
                     Press, 1966. Pp. xii, 449. Notes, illustrations, bibliographical essay, index.
                    $8.00.)
            In 1958 the Mississippi Valley Historical Association (now the Organization of
                    American Historians) instituted an award, offering an annual $1,000 prize and promising
                    publication of an outstanding manuscript dealing with some phase of American history.
                    Shaw's manuscript, 
                  
                            Erie
                         Water West, received the prize in 1965; and it evolved into the best history
                    of the 
                        Erie
                     Canal published to date.
            This is a scholarly study, based upon extensive use of manuscript collections, newspapers, published
                    letters and memoirs, 
                        New York State
                     legislative documents, and the best secondary sources. It is, in a sense,
                    historians' history—a far cry from more popular treatments like Alvin
                    Harlow's Old Towpaths (1926), Madeline S. Waggoner's The Long Haul
                    
                    West, the Great Canal Era, 1817–1850 (1958), Harvey Chambers'
                        The Birth of the 
                            Erie
                         Canal (1960), and Lionel D. Wyld's Low Bridge! Folklore
                        and the 
                            Erie
                         Canal (1962). On the other hand, Shaw expresses his indebtedness to two
                    economic studies which laid the base for his work, Nathan Miller's The
                        Enter-prise of a Free People: Aspects of Economic Development in 
                            New York State
                         During the Canal Period, 1792–1838 (1962) and Noble E.
                    Whitford's two-volume History of the Canal System of the State of 
                            New York
                        
                … (1906), the basic engineering study of the 
                        Erie
                     Canal. Historian Shaw has done such a thorough and comprehensive job of research that
                    his book is apt to be the standard work on the canal for the next fifty years.
            The author of 
                  
                            Erie
                         Water West takes the reader back to 1724 when Cadwallader Colden, surveyor
                    general of 
                        New York
                    , sent a memorial to Governor William Burnet, with perhaps the first recognition of a
                    possible water connection between the Hudson River and the Great
                        Lakes. He ends the study with the year 1854, when the enlargement question was
                    finally resolved. In between are twenty chapters, dealing with the economic and political problems
                    of the times. Shaw recounts, for example, the spirited controversy between the villages of 
                        Buffalo
                     and Black Rock to become the western terminus of the canal; and he describes the gala
                    celebrations which marked the completion of the canal in 1825. He also details the question of
                    enlargement, which embroiled 
                        New York
                     politics for two decades. In the entire story, of course, the name of DeWitt 
                        Clinton
                     looms high above the rest, for his imagination, industry, and persistence transformed a
                    dream into a reality. Hoosiers will be interested in this book because the 
                        Erie
                     Canal, directly and indirectly, contributed much to the development of the Midwest.
            Historians might criticize Shaw for failing to carry the story of the 
                        Erie
                     Canal to 1862, when the rebuilding of the canal was completed. Non-historians, more
                    interested in readability than in historical detail and interpretation, may criticize the book for
                    its heavy literary style. No one, however, can deny that Shaw has contributed an important and
                    scholarly study which fills a need and a void. Nor will anyone deny that Ronald E. Shaw merited the
                    1965 award for his well-researched manuscript. His "Essay on Bibliography" is well
                    done, the illustrations are adequate, and the index excellent. The University of 
                        Kentucky
                     Press, as always, has done a masterful job of bookmaking.
            
               Marquette University Frank L. Klement
         
         
            
               The Great Lakes Reader. Edited by Walter Havighurst. (
                        New York
                    : The Macmillan Company, 1966. Pp. xvii, 421. Illustrations, end maps.
                    $7.95.)
            The age of the automobile and the aeroplane has made ship travel on inland waters seem slow and
                    inconsequential to the ordinary observer; but when one contemplates closely the vastness of the
                        Great Lakes of America, the importance of this waterway can be understood.
                    The more romantic pages of the history of these lakes relate the heroic efforts  of men to conquer the physical handicaps of water travel by the more
                    limited tools of an earlier age. Havighurst says that the aim of this book "is to recall
                    men and moments from the past" (p. xvii). Since he does not pretend to have told the only
                    or complete story, the reader who has other interests and likes a different collection of narratives
                    must be tolerant of Havighurst's choices.
            From the viewpoint of style and appeal, the passages are well chosen and are nearly all short enough
                    to attract the casual reader. The Great Lakes do not have a medieval
                    literature, but material about the Indians and their traditions is abundant enough to deserve more
                    space in such a volume. The travel on Lake Michigan was quite different in
                    purpose from that on Lake Superior, but Lake Michigan was
                    the main route to the 
                        Illinois
                     Country. One misses that romance of the Indians of the lower peninsula as found in
                    Julia Altrocchi's Wolves Against the Moon. The immigrants who came along
                    the Great Lakes route in the early part of the nineteenth century are scarcely
                    mentioned.
            Unconsciously or by intent, the story is told predominantly in passages dealing with the vast mineral
                    deposits of Lake Superior: the search for them, the finding and extraction of
                    them, and the new struggle over them arising from foreign competitors brought about by the seaway.
                    Certainly, the enormous human effort that finally conquered Sault Saint Marie and brought out from
                        Lake Superior its mineral wealth is mirrored in the passages that the
                    editor has chosen. One of the very interesting episodes, incidentally, tells of a 
                        Pittsburgh
                     pharmacist who became the agent for speculating Yankees.
            The first section of the book conveys some notion of the bold sense of adventure of the voyageur, placing considerable emphasis on the value of the Indian canoe as the chief
                    means of travel. There is sufficient tribute to the devotion of the Jesuit missionaries to their
                    primitive peoples; yet, there is wanting a passage that would bring out the real hardships of their
                    advanced exploration. The book contains very little about the conflict between the idealism of the
                    missionary and the lust of the coureurs de bois.
            
            The passages that tell of the storms on the lakes together with the list of the dead in
                        Lake Huron in 1913 give the reader some notion of the danger involved in
                    shipping on the lakes. Throughout the book, no passage really should be read alone; some of the
                    brief episodes which seem to go nowhere contribute to the general understanding of longer and more
                    involved accounts. There is an element of humor in the episode of Charles T. Harvey, "The
                    Canalside Superintendent," and there is real pathos in the story of "The Christmas
                    Tree Schooner." The account of "The Long Ships" is not so exciting but
                    has an interest of its own in the effort to adapt the Great Lakes shipping
                    fleet to changing circumstances. The final group of passages dealing with the "Cities and
                    Seaway" is perhaps too brief for all that is involved in the subject, but it serves to
                    indicate the present and the future of the seaways and affords some glance at the relevance of
                    Quebec to these inland seas.
            
               University of Notre Dame Thomas T. McAvoy. C.S.C.
         
         
         
            
               The Northern Colonial Frontier, 1607–1763. By Douglas Edward Leach. (
                        New York
                    : Holt, Rinehart and Winston, 1966. Pp. xviii, 266. Maps, illustrations, notes,
                    bibliographical notes, index. $7.95.)
            Douglas Leach completed his doctoral dissertation on King Philip's War over a decade and a
                    half ago; but he continues to mine his diggings on the New 
                        England
                     frontier with an enthusiasm, vigor, and dilligence that should be inspirational to
                    young men just entering the historian's profession. Already known for Flint
                        Lock and Tomahawk (1958), an outcome of his dissertation, Leach, in The
                        Northern Colonial Frontier, has written a unique frontier study.
            Four sub-themes form the roots and branches that support and develop the great trunk of this study.
                    The conquest of geography, the fur trade, colonial land policy, and French-English rivalry are
                    interwoven to develop the northern frontier story as a racial conflict. In his Preface, Leach says
                    "How wonderful it would be if someone could write a history of the westward movement from
                    the Indian point of view." The Vanderbilt University professor has come as near to doing it
                    as possible. This is a brilliant accomplishment. There are few heroes in this book, for it is not a
                    study of men and their institutions. The figures who do merit Leach's attention are those
                    who were able to rise above the fundamental ethnocentrism of the European colonist. Penn, Williams,
                    Eliot, and Johnson are Leach's kind of men.
            Here we see starkly portrayed the failure of Christian theology to combat the egocentric materialism
                    of the Christian colonists who destroyed the Indian culture. The Indians saw, too, that the theology
                    preached had little relevance to the way the white man acted. Leach also shows the early
                    introduction of the Christian confusion that could justify theft of other people's land by
                    the materialist argument that cash had been paid (p. 39). The book, then, is about a kind of
                    "domestic imperialism," the exploitation of a race rather than natural resources
                    being the central concern. Leach is no maudlin romantic mooning over the degradation of the noble
                    savage, however, and gives adequate attention to the inhumanity of the red as well as the white man.
                    (For a statement counter to this racial interpretation see Alden T. Vaughn's New 
                            England
                         Frontier: Puritans and Indians, pp. 62n-63n).
            The strands that are woven to produce this Indian tapestry must not be overlooked. Leach pays ample
                    attention to the Turner thesis. In this volume, one of eighteen under the editorship of Ray Allen
                    Billington in a History of the American Frontier series, the point is made that
                    the northern frontier was not just like the later western one; and the 
                        Wisconsin
                     master was not at all accurate in portraying it as such (pp. 207–10). That
                    the New 
                        England
                     pioneer was more likely to be collectivist and imitative than individualist and
                    innovative is pointed out over and over again. The four sub-themes listed at the beginning of this
                    review are developed with precision and originality.
            The book's failures are in large measure beyond the author's means to escape, for
                    they grow out of the attempt of the series to appeal to both the specialist and the general reader.
                    The index is woefully inadequate, whimsically constructed, and inconsistent. The writing style,  while never dull, is less vibrant and colorful than popular
                    readers would like, although occasional sparks appear. And when will the trade publishers get over
                    their silly insistence on segregating the footnotes in their own place at the back of the book! The
                    price—$7.95 for 210 pages of text—is much too high. There are eight
                    helpful maps and twenty-eight illustrations that will not be new to the scholar.
            This unique contribution to frontier history is a real achievement in developing a highly original
                    view, thoroughly grounded on primary sources, in a manner of genuine relevance to the mid-twentieth
                    century world.
            
               University of Bridgeport Christopher Collier
         
         
            
               Red Man's Religion: Beliefs and Practices of the Indians North of 
                            Mexico
                        . By Ruth M. Underbill. (
                        Chicago
                    : The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1965. Pp. 301. Notes, maps, illustrations, bibliography, index.
                    $7.95.)
            The author says she has pitched this volume at the general reader, but it also has enough depth to
                    enlighten those who already know something abount Indians, including anthropologists. The book
                    describes Indian religions at the time of first white contact, which varies from the middle
                    1600's in the east to the middle 1800's in the far north and west. The emphasis is
                    on behavior in ceremonies rather than on verbalizations about beliefs. The author rightly infers
                    that "action came before thinking" (p. 38) and wisely stresses ceremonies, which
                    are much better reported in primary sources than are the subtleties of belief.
            The book contains twenty-three chapters, thirty-four illustrations (mostly half tones), and four
                    maps. The first map gives the six language phyla of Sapir, 1929, which are now known to be incorrect
                    in some respects; but the other maps are up to date. Careful reading by the professional will reveal
                    a few errors in the text. For instance, Chilkat blankets are said to contain dog wool (p. 1). This
                    is not true; the only blankets made of dog wool were those of the Salish speaking peoples of 
                        Washington
                     state and southern 
                        British Columbia
                    , not those of the Chilkat of southeast 
                        Alaska
                    . A few trivial errors of this nature do not detract from the overall accuracy of the
                    volume.
            Historical inferences for the pre-Columbian period are plausible and tenable in all cases. For
                    instance, the author suggests that the earliest immigrants to the New World practiced only rites
                    connected with female physiology (birth, menstruation) and death. Such ceremonies were universal
                    among Indians at first white contact and were conducted by families in the areas lacking more
                    complex social organization. Contacts with neighboring peoples gave rise to diffusions or borrowings
                    of both whole ceremonies and smaller details, such that every ceremony at white contact was a
                    conglomerate of ancient survivals, borrowings of all ages, and local inventions as well. Although
                    most of the book is devoted to description of various tribes and culture areas at first white
                    contact or as soon after as data are available, there is a 
                    little documentary history in a number of chapters and a considerable amount in the last chapter on
                    modern religions.
            Underbill is one of the best writers in anthropology as the following quotation shows: "One
                    of my most dramatic memories is that of standing in the plaza of a Pueblo, in the dark of a January
                    morning, to watch the Mother of Game bring in the deer. It was almost dawn when we heard the
                    hunter's call from the hillside. Then shadowy forms came bounding down through the
                    piñon trees. At first we could barely see the shaking horns and dappled hides. Then the
                    sun's rays picked out men on all fours, with deerskins over their backs and painted staves
                    in their hands to simulate forelegs. They leaped and gamboled before the people while around them
                    pranced little boys who seemed actually to have the spirit of fawns" (p. 117).
            On the whole this book is the best on its subject to date and will appeal to a wide audience. It may
                    be classed as text, trade, reference, or all three and can be read with profit by professionals in
                    both the behavioral sciences and the humanities, including historians.
            
               Indiana University Harold E. Driver
         
         
            
               Historians against History: The Frontier Thesis and the National Covenant in American
                        Historical Writing since 1830. By David W. Noble. (
                        Minneapolis
                    : University of 
                        Minnesota
                     Press, 1965. Pp. 197. Notes, index. $5.00.)
            This slender volume re-examines many of the precepts by which Americans have been guided since 1830.
                    It also raises anew many arguments which no doubt will go into perpetuity. The author has sought the
                    central theme or tradition in historical writings dealing with an expanding America. He of necessity
                    has had to review the conflicts between old and new world cultures and between the simple
                    agrarianism and the rising complex industrialism. In examining the adjustments of Americans to their
                    new-found environment, historians have come under many intellectual and physical influences ranging
                    from that of the mythical second covenant of salvation between God and man to the philosophies of
                    Locke, Rousseau, Jefferson, and others. Triumph of the common man, some historians have said, came
                    in the 1830's with the elevation of Andrew Jackson to the presidency of the 
                        United States
                    .
            American historians no doubt, as Noble says, have constantly searched for answers to the question of
                    how the country attained uniqueness and resisted alien influences. From George Bancroft to Daniel
                    Boorstin, historians have tried either to explain this fact or to refute it in many of its parts.
            Bancroft has had a vast and no doubt undue influence on American historians, even on those who have
                    never read his history. The simple Calvinistic doctrine of predestinarianism had meaning for
                    Americans. So did the simplicity of Puritanism. Beginning with no actual cultured heritage, as
                    Bancroft saw America, the Republic built its cultural structure on a simple rural agrarianism.
                    Humble leaders such as George 
                        Washington
                    , John Adams, Thomas Jefferson, and Daniel 
                        Boone
                     were  destined to bring about the fulfillment of
                    the covenant. It was they who would lead the conquest. It was they who would help the people step
                    out of a feudal past. To Bancroft the sprawling frontier was a "garden" not to be
                    despoiled once again by the sordid bickerings of man, especially political man.
            Beard and Turner perhaps synthesized much of the conflict between agrarian expansion and the
                    industrial revolution and the various contradictions which arose. It was Carl Becker, however, who
                    best revealed the changing viewpoints of the American historian with the passing years and the
                    gaining of experience as a historian. Becker's 
                        Kansas
                     experience tarnished some of the shine of the frontier for the eager young historian.
                    In two perceptive essays the author traces the transition of Carl Becker from an idealistic
                    frontiersman to a historian willing to accept the dynamics of technology and industrial revolution.
                    In his later years Becker greatly revised his belief in the ability of the common man to achieve
                    democracy and to make the great plan necessary for its future operation. Beard, too, viewed the
                    revolution of the twentieth century from a sharply revised perspective—even though he was
                    highly cynical about the capacity of the capitalist plutocracy to survive.
            In his concluding chapter, the author examines the points of departure of Daniel Boorstin between the
                    publication of The Mysterious Science of Law and the Genius of
                        American Politics. By 1962, and in the Images, Noble says Boorstin
                    reached the point at which he seemed "to deny much of the intellectual position he had
                    constructed over the last decade. He appeared to have discovered a more fearful threat to American
                    innocence than those which had haunted Bancroft, Turner, Parrington, and Beard. He found corruption
                    within the ‘people’" (p. 173).
            This book raises many old questions and provokes many new ones. It raises no greater new one than
                    whether or not middle twentieth-century America has fulfilled the covenant of the garden and the
                    great dream.
            
               Indiana University Thomas D. Clark
         
         
            
               Fisher Ames, Federalist and Statesman, 1758–1808. By Winfred E. A.
                    Bernhard. (Chapel Hill: The University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, for the Institute of Early American History and Culture, 1965. Pp. xiii, 372.
                    Notes, illustrations, note on sources, index. $8.75.)
            Among congressmen of the 1790's Fisher Ames, representative from 
                        Massachusetts
                    , acquired a notable reputation as a hard-core Federalist and an outstanding orator. He
                    reached the peak of his fame midway in the decade in defense of the treaty which Federalist John Jay
                    had negotiated with 
                        England
                    . The treaty provoked dispute throughout the country, and in the House rebellious
                    Republicans moved to block the necessary appropriations. "A Jupiter was needed,"
                    Bernhard writes, "who could hurl thunderbolts and confound the enemy. Federalists turned to
                    Ames" (p. 267). They were turning to a sick man. "Mr. Chairman," he
                    began, "I entertain the hope, perhaps a rash one, that 
                    my strength will hold me out to speak a few minutes" (p. 268). For over
                    an hour the sick man held the floor in "a display of oratory which remained unsurpassed in
                    his generation" (p. 268). Some in the audience wept, and all were moved. It is possible
                    that some votes changed as a result—it is known that the House Republicans were soon
                    defeated—although all Bernhard can say is that "it is reasonable to assume that
                    Ames's speech had a strong influence on the final outcome" (p. 272).
            Bernhard is not one to go off the deep end, which is easy to do with a man like Ames. Die-hard
                    Federalists—of whom there have been few—have admired Ames. Jeffersonians have
                    scorned him. Jeffersonian liberals, like Parrington, have portrayed him as a hysterical reactionary.
                    (To Ames, Parrington would have been a mere "democratick babbler.") After Ames retired from
                    Congress in 1797 he turned to writing, trying to turn the tide of "Jacobinical"
                    Republicanism. The country, he warned, was "sliding down into the mire of a
                    democracy" (p. 337).
            For most twentieth-century readers, Ames is a man who needs explanation. The mockery of Parrington is
                    of little help. And this biography, objective as it is, offers little by way of explanation or
                    analysis. What it does present is a comprehensive account of what Ames did and said, and
                    particularly what part he took in each congressional issue of the time.
            Since it is the first, and will probably be the last, full-length biography of Ames, it will be read
                    and cited. But granting that a full-length biography of a notable American of the past is a
                    meritorious project, it is hard to think of this one as a prize winner. (It won the 1963 Manuscript
                    Award of the Institute of Early American History and Culture.) The book has good qualities: it is
                    objective, comprehensive, and is based on scholarly examination of the sources. These are all to its
                    credit, but why a prize? The book does not substantially change our understanding of Ames (assuming
                    one has read more than Parrington), nor is the presentation distinctive. If it is representative of
                    the kind of work that informed historical opinion generally considers worthy of a prize, historians
                    may be sliding down into a mire of their own making. It may be that they, like the Federalists, have
                    become men alienated from all save their own brethren.
            
               Trinity University Philip F. Detweiler
         
         
            
               A History of Negro Slavery in 
                            New York
                        . By Edgar J. McManus. (
                        Syracuse
                    , N. Y.: 
                        Syracuse
                     University Press, 1966. Pp. xi, 219. Notes, appendix, bibliographical note, index.
                    $5.95.)
            Until recently most historians confined their accounts of the Negro and slavery to the southern
                    colonies and states, leaving the impression that slavery in the North was an insignificant,
                    relatively mild institution. Scholars are now taking a closer look at involuntary servitude in the
                    North and are finding that it possessed many of the harsh, repressive characteristics heretofore
                    regarded as peculiarly southern. In this work McManus places special emphasis on the urban slave,
                    tracing the development of slavery from its introduction in early New  Netherland to its final abolition by the 
                        New York
                     state legislature in 1841. Under Dutch rule slavery had been essentially a private
                    institution, with slaves permitted considerable personal freedom. But when the English obtained the
                    colony, they imposed rigid slave controls, creating a separate legal code and judicial system for
                    slaves.
            The author emphasizes the diversity of slave labor in colonial 
                        New York
                    , where a shortage of free labor quickly created a demand for slave artisans. These
                    talented, ambitious Negroes played a significant role in the struggle for emancipation, with many
                    bondsmen eventually negotiating their own freedom. Paradoxically, the nature of the work performed
                    by slave craftsmen placed them in direct competition with white workers, a condition leading to
                    bitterness, hostility, and periodic violence on a scale unmatched in other colonies.
            Of particular interest is the account of the 
                        New York City
                     slave conspiracies of 1712 and 1741, the latter paralleling in many respects the
                    infamous 
                        Salem
                     witch trials. The outrageous accusations of Mary Burton, an indentured servant, threw
                    the city's inhabitants into panic; and before the hysteria subsided fourteen slaves had
                    been burned at the stake, eighteen hanged, and seventy-two deported from the province. In the
                    author's opinion these conspiracy trials were "judicial murders" (p.
                    138).
            In discussing the movement to abolish slavery in 
                        New York
                    , McManus contends that although some of those leading the fight against slavery were
                    motivated by idealistic considerations, the institution was outlawed only after it had ceased to be
                    profitable. It was not until 1799 that the state legislature passed a law providing for gradual
                    emancipation, and slavery continued to exist in the state for nearly a half century thereafter.
                    Unfortunately emancipation did not bring equality; for while many New Yorkers opposed slavery, few
                    were willing to grant the freed Negro political freedom or equal economic opportunity.
            McManus has done little to fit slavery in 
                        New York
                     into the context of northern slavery as a whole. When he does employ analogy or
                    comparison, it is usually to show that a particularly harsh slave practice in 
                        New York
                     compared favorably with similar practices in the South (p. 93). More
                    meaningful—though less flattering—would be comparison with the neighboring
                    state of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , where the lot of the slave was generally better. Too, the student of American history
                    would be interested in learning more about the antislavery activities of such nationally prominent
                    New Yorkers as Alexander 
                        Hamilton
                    , John Jay, and Aaron Burr. The author mentions these figures but does not dwell on
                    their contributions in detail.
            Although McManus adequately explores the concept of slavery, he has little to say about slaves as
                    individuals. Aware of this shortcoming, the author states in his preface that such information is
                    simply not available (p. x). While the slaves themselves may not have left personal records, enough
                    is known about certain prominent 
                        New York
                     slaves to merit their inclusion. Consideration of the activities of these individuals
                    would not only add to the reader's interest, it would also help document the
                    author's assertion that Negroes in 
                        New York
                     generally were more intelligent, ambitious, and independent than their southern
                    counterparts.
            
               Indiana University John A. Dittmer
         
         
         
            
               Great Britain and 
                            United States
                         Expansion: 1898–1900. By R. G. Neale. ([
                        East Lansing
                    ]: 
                        Michigan
                     State University Press, 1966. Pp. xxii, 230. Notes, bibliography, index.
                    $6.00.)
            Neale's principal objective is "to examine the realities of the relationship
                    between British diplomacy and American imperialism during and immediately after the Spanish-American
                    War" (p. v). He contends that British policy at that time was less important in bringing
                    about an Anglo-American rapprochement than has been believed. Like other students of relations
                    between 
                        Washington
                     and 
                        London
                    , he recognizes the strength of British sympathy for the 
                        United States
                    , but he thinks that historians have failed to distinguish adequately between
                    expressions of good will by powerful newspapers and a few statesmen and the actual policies of the 
                        Salisbury
                     cabinet. Neale attributes this failure to the rules of the Public Record Office which
                    long closed the pertinent British documents to research. Several scholars have made much use of
                    these materials since they were opened a few years ago, but Neale is the first to attempt a thorough
                    analysis of documents relating to his particular interest. He has also given careful scrutiny to the
                    private papers of Lord 
                        Salisbury
                    , Sir Thomas Sanderson, and Lord Landsdowne. The result is convincing evidence that
                    American opinion in 1898 and some of the first historians of that year's decisive events
                    exaggerated the pro-American character of British policy.
            Although British policy was careful not to offend the 
                        United States
                    , it was also considerate of Spanish sensibilities. In fact the British ambassador in
                    Madrid, Sir Henry Drummond Wolfe, was so sympathetic with the Queen Regent of 
                        Spain
                     that at times he may have failed to represent his superiors' views accurately.
                    Of interest, too, are the activities of the British ambassador in 
                        Washington
                    , Sir Julian Pauncefote. That diplomat had earnestly promoted Anglo-American friendship,
                    and he enjoyed real popularity in America. He was, however, distressed by the belligerent policies
                    of the McKinley administration and worked to prevent war. His actions went beyond the desires of the
                    British government, but not so far as some of his critics charged late in his career. The policies
                    of the 
                        London
                     cabinet were, then, essentially policies of a correct, cautious neutrality.
            Neale also discusses Anglo-American relations immediately after the war. He finds that there were
                    still many difficulties between the two governments and that on occasion the traditional American
                    hostility towards Great Britain reappeared. He concludes that there is little reason to believe that
                    the enthusiasm Englishmen and Americans had frequently expressed for each other in 1898 had markedly
                    changed what he calls "the quality of Anglo-American co-operation" (p. xiii).
            Had this book appeared a generation ago its interpretations would have been considered quite
                    original, perhaps controversial; but they have been anticipated in distinguished books published in
                    recent years by Charles S. Campbell, Jr., and Ernest R. May. For yet other reasons it may not
                    receive the attention it deserves. There are too many obscure passages and too many unnecessary
                    repetitions. On occasion there are troubling minor errors. More careful editing could have resulted
                    in a better book, but this work does, nevertheless, add substantially to the knowledge of
                    Anglo-American relations at the end of the nineteenth century.
            
               Duke University Calvin D. Davis
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               An Atlas of Southern Indiana. By Robert C. Kingsbury. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Department of Geography, Indiana University, 1966. Pp. 60. Illustrations, maps,
                    charts, graphs. Paperbound, $1.00.) This atlas contains a variety of useful and
                    interesting information about Southern Indiana. The maps and commentary describe the area, detail
                    its physical landscape, portray its counties and towns, view both its rural and urban life, feature
                    its state parks and forests, and related items. The Forward describes this as the initial atlas of
                    southern Indiana and explains that it "is offered as part of Indiana University's
                    contribution to the state's sesquicentennial celebration of 1966."
            
               The Search for Henry Cross: An Adventure in Biography and Americana. By W. Douglas
                    Hartley. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1966. Pp. 77. Illustrations, maps, sources. Paperbound,
                    $1.50.) This publication is a well-illustrated and fascinating account of the search for
                    and identification of Henry Cross, early Indiana folk sculpturer. It discusses and evaluates the
                    tombstones and other stone slabs which Cross produced near the middle of the nineteenth century.
                    Many of his tombstones can still be found in scattered graveyards in 
                        Brown
                     and 
                        Bartholomew
                     counties. Because of the manner in which it is written, Hartley's booklet can
                    also serve as a guidebook to the roads leading to these cemeteries.
            
               Outdoor Indiana. Edited by Byron L. Troyer. Vol. XXXII, No. 1. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Department of Natural Resources, October, 1966. Pp. 38. Magazine,
                    $3.00 per year.) This issue of Outdoor Indiana heralds revival of the
                    magazine which was suspended early in 1965. If this issue is representative, the revived magazine
                    will be more comprehensive than previously. Material concerning fishing, hunting, and sports
                    remains; but there will be more emphasis on Indiana's history, heritage, and scenic spots.
                    A number of pictures, including four pages of color photos, make the format of the new Outdoor Indiana more attractive and interesting than its predecessor. This initial issue
                    is free to old and new subscribers alike. Subsequent issues, available at the rate of
                    $3.00 annually, may be obtained by sending check or money order to Outdoor
                        Indiana, 612 State Office Building, 
                  Indianapolis, Indiana
                46209.
            
               Tales of our Hoosier Heritage. By Arville L. Funk. Reprinted from Outdoor Indiana magazine. (
                        Chicago
                    : Adams Press, 1965. Pp. 101. Maps, illustrations. Paperbound, $1.50.) This
                    booklet reproduces a number of sketches which originally appeared in Outdoor
                    Indiana. They include popular articles regarding LaSalle, Little Turtle, the Lincoln family,
                    Jacob Wetzel, and Doctor Richard 
                        Jordan
                     Gatling. There are also sketches about the Pigeon Roost Massacre of 1812, the Trail of
                    Death in 1838, the Old National Road, the Whitewater Canal, Conner 
                        Prairie
                     Farm, Camp Morton, and other topics. A number of illustrations and maps adds interest
                    and value to this popular booklet.
            
            
               Religion in Wood: A Book of Shaker Furniture. By Edward Deming Andrews and Faith
                    Andrews. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1966. Pp. xxi, 106. Notes, illustrations, suggested reading.
                    $5.95.) The central theme of this work is the distinctive furniture created and used by
                    the members of the Shaker religious sect. The first twenty pages describe the Shakers, their
                    communities, their religion, and the underlying personalities which caused them to develop their
                    special types of furniture. The remainder of the work is filled with beautiful plates showing
                    individual pieces and settings of Shaker furniture with accompanying descriptions. Religion in Wood is as well constructed and distinctive as the subject it discusses. C. 
                            Wayne
                         Lutes, Dyer Junior High School, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               A Handbook on the Care of Paintings, for Historical Agencies and Small Museums. By
                    Caroline K. Keck. ([
                        Nashville
                    ]: The American Association for State and Local History, 1965. Pp. xii, 132.
                    Illustrations, appendices, bibliography. Paperbound, $2.00.) This handbook offers useful
                    and practical information concerning the care and preservation of paintings. It should be
                    particularly helpful to individuals or organizations having small collections and those who lack
                    trained and experienced personnel to provide needed protection and care to the paintings in such
                    collections.
            
               Houses and House-Life of the American Aborigines. By Lewis H. Morgan. Introduction
                    by Paul Bohannan. Facsimile reprint. (
                        Chicago
                    : University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1965. Pp. xxxi, 319. Illustrations, notes, index. $6.95.) Originally
                    published in 1881, this work merits inclusion in the series of which it is a part, Classics of Anthropology. Although out of vogue for the past several decades, Lewis Henry
                    Morgan, one of the "fathers" of ethnohistory, is again receiving the serious
                    attention of anthropologists; and this handsomely-bound volume will enable present-day students to
                    read a truly "classic" work and at the same time let them benefit from the new,
                    interpretive introduction. Herman J. Viola, Indiana University.
            
            
               Americanisms: A Dictionary of Selected Americanisms on Historical Principles.
                    Edited by Mitford M. Mathews. (
                        Chicago
                    : The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1966. Second edition, abridged. Pp. xii, 304. Illustrations, bibliography.
                    Clothbound, $5.95; paperbound, $1.95.) This is an abridged edition of the much
                    larger Dictionary of Americanisms which appeared in 1951, also under the
                    editorship of Mathews. For the most part, both dictionaries consist of words that first came into
                    the English language within the 
                        United States
                    . Explanatory comments and quotations offer examples of uses and meanings of such words.
            
               List of National Archives Microfilm Publications, 1966. (
                        Washington
                    : National Archives, 1966. Pp. xii, 107. Appendices, index. Paper-bound.) This list is a
                    guide to microfilm holdings of the national archives of the 
                        United States
                    . The table of contents (pp. ix-xii) indicates the tremendous volume and variety of the
                    sources available  on microfilm, mainly as related to particular
                    departments or agencies of the federal government. An indication of how positive print may be
                    obtained is given (p. vii). The value of this guide to scholars is too obvious to require detailed
                    comment here.
            
               Microfilm Index and Bibliography of the Concordia Historical Institute: The Department
                        of Archives and History; the Lutheran Church—
                            Missouri
                         Synod, 
                     St. Louis, Missouri
                  , 1954–1963. (
                        St. Louis
                    : Concordia Press, 1966. Pp. vii, 182. Paperbound.) According to the Introduction, this
                    is a "comprehensive and detailed index" to the microfilm collection and archives
                    of the Lutheran Church in America, the 
                        Missouri
                     Synod, with headquarters at 
                        St. Louis
                    . The large quantity of available material is suggested by the fact that
                    "almost a hundred thousand feet of microfilm have been accumulated" and the
                    Church's library holdings include "upwards of thirty-eight thousand volumes of
                    books, periodicals, pamphlets and tracts, a manuscript and archives collection in excess of two
                    million documents and papers, and a museum and photographic collection consisting of thousands of
                    items." This index affords useful clues to many facets of American history and of course
                    suggests a mine of primary source material about Lutheranism in the 
                        United States
                    .
            
               Emigration to Other States from Southside 
                            Virginia
                        . Volume I. Compiled by Katherine B. Elliott. (South Hill, Va.: The Author,
                    1966. Pp. 138. Indices.) This publication offers a compilation of the names of migrants from
                    Southside 
                        Virginia
                     and the area to which they went, with references to sources confirming such emigration,
                    but there seems to be no particular significance to the order in which names are listed. Both a
                    place and name index are included which should be useful to genealogists. Only one Indiana resident
                    is listed in the place index (p. 111).
            
               One World. By Wendell L. Willkie. Reprint. Introduction by Donald Bruce Johnson. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1966. Pp. xviii, ix, 206. Paperbound, $1.75.) Wendell
                    Willkie's One World first appeared in 1943, three years after his
                    unsuccessful presidential campaign against Franklin D. Roosevelt. A brief introductory sketch by
                    Donald Bruce Johnson offers background information and interpretation favorable to Willkie.
            
               The Trumpet Soundeth: William Jennings Bryan and his Democracy,
                    1896–1912. By Paul W. Glad. Reprint. (
                        Lincoln
                    : University of 
                        Nebraska
                     Press, 1966. Pp. xii, 242. Illustrations, notes, bibliographical essay, index.
                    Paperbound, $1.65.) Paul Glad's original edition of this volume appeared in
                    1960. The generally favorable reviews which it received by historical scholars are ample evidence of
                    the wisdom of reprinting it in the Bison paperback series to make it available to additional
                    readers. As indicated by the title, Glad concentrates on Bryan's influence and achievements
                    during the period 1896–1912 when "The Commoner" was thrice the
                    Democratic nominee for president of the 
                        United States
                    .
         
         
         
            Subscriptions to Indiana Magazine of History
            
            Subscriptions to the Indiana Magazine of History are available at $5.00
                    annually, and check or money orders therefor should be addressed to the Indiana
                        Magazine of History, Library 48, Indiana University, Bloomington, Indiana 47401.
                    Nevertheless, prospective subscribers are reminded that membership in the Indiana Historical Society
                    automatically includes subscription to the Indiana Magazine of History as well as
                    other publications and benefits. The categories of membership available in the society are as
                    follows: 
                  
                     ANNUAL MEMBERSHIP
                     $10.00 per year
                  
                  
                     SUSTAINING MEMBERSHIP
                     $25.00 per year
                  
                  
                     CONTRIBUTING MEMBERSHIP
                     $50.00 per year
                  
                  
                     LIFE MEMBERSHIP
                     $200.00
                  
                Persons desiring the magazine through society membership should send their checks or money
                    orders to the Indiana Historical Society, Room 409, State Library and Historical Building,
                    Indianapolis, Indiana, 46204.
            Both current and new subscribers who wish to make direct subscription to the Indiana
                        Magazine of History for the year 1967 are encouraged to do so before February 1, 1967.
         
         
         
            Request for March Issues
            Due to an unexpected increase in the membership of the Indiana Historical Society, the Indiana Magazine of History inventory for the March, 1966, issue is nearly exhausted. In
                    anticipation of future requests for such copies from libraries and individuals, all subscribers who
                    do not keep a file of issues are invited to donate their copies of the March, 1966, issue to the
                    Editor, Indiana Magazine of History, Library 48, Indiana University, Bloomington,
                    Indiana 47401.
         
         
            Papers of Caleb B. Smith Desired
            Richard J. Thomas, graduate student in history at Indiana University, is writing a political
                    biography of the late Caleb B. Smith of Indiana. Smith served in the Indiana legislature during the
                    1830's and in Congress from 1843 to 1849. He was Lincoln's secretary of the
                    interior from 1861 to 1863. Anecdotes, speeches, letters, newspaper clippings, diaries, genealogy,
                    or any other information concerning Smith's public or private life are desired. Address all
                    correspondence to Richard J. Thomas, 1117 Tulip Tree Apartments, Bloomington, Indiana 47401.
         
         
            Papers of Thomas L. McKenney Desired
            Herman J. Viola, graduate student in history at Indiana University, is writing a career biography of
                    Thomas L. McKenney, superintendent of Indian trade and first head of the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
                    Information on McKenney's personal life is especially desired. Address all correspondence to Herman
                    J. Viola, Assistant Editor, Indiana Magazine of History, The Library, Room 48,
                    Indiana University, Bloomington, Indiana 47401.
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
