
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 3, Issue 2, pages 51-100. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:3+issue:2+year:1907&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            PIONEER LIFE.
            
                    BY BENJAMIN S. PARKER.
                
            PAPER NO. II.
             The Old-Time Singing Schools; "
                 Missouri
              Harmony" and Other Singing Books–-Debating
                    Clubs, Literary Societies and Other Amusements–-Winter
                    Sport–Religious Life and Its Social Side-–Notes by the
                    Editor.
            THE old-time singing schools served the double purpose of social gatherings and
                    schools of vocal instruction. In the country such schools were held either at
                    the district school-houses or the local churches of denominations other than the
                    Friends, these at that time opposing musical instruction of every kind. The
                    books used were those devoted to sacred music. Probably the earliest of the
                    music books used in 
                        Henry county
                     was the "
                        Missouri
                     Harmony," a book that contained many of the standard hymns
                    which survive from generation to generation with others, the words and music of
                    which are now forgotten. It was written in what was known as
                    "buckwheat" notes, because the characters representing the
                    notes resembled grains of buckwheat, but each differed from the other
                    sufficiently to indicate its name without reference to its position on the
                    staff. The "
                        Missouri
                     Harmony" only used the four syllables, mi, fa, sol, la,
                    repeating them to make the full octave, thus: fa, sol, la, mi, fa, sol, la, fa.
                    When the "
                        Missouri
                     Harmony," which held the field a long time, went out, it
                    was succeeded by either the round note system now in use, the figure note
                    system, or an extension of the system used in the "Harmony,"
                    which provided additional characters for the three notes of the
                    octave–do, si, re, the do being repeated to fill out the octave.
            In many country neighborhoods the singings occurred on Sunday afternoons. The
                    meetings, however, were not confined to Sundays, as the master found it best to
                    have two or three schools on hand at the same time. Several masters were often
                    running  schools in the same neighborhood,
                    and between these schools there was considerable emulation which sometimes led
                    to a joint meeting where the rival classes, under the leadership of their
                    respective teachers, contested for superiority. The singers were chosen very
                    much as were the spellers at the spelling matches. Judges were selected who were
                    to listen to all the contests, and award the honors. The first class to sing
                    stood and sang two selections, first the notes and then the words. The second
                    class, in like manner, sang the same selections, and then two more. The first
                    class then sang the latter airs and two new ones, and so on till the contest
                    closed. In the midst of every afternoon school there was a recess, which was
                    made good use of by old and young. For pure and wholesome social enjoyment, few
                    recreations surpassed the old country singing-school, and there at the same time
                    were trained many sweet singers for the local churches, as well as for the
                    homes.
            In the older books the parts were arranged for treble, or air, answering to the
                    modern soprano, and sung by men as well as women; tenor, or double air, for both
                    men and women, and bass, for men. Baritone and alto were not used. Among the
                    books in use other than "
                        Missouri
                     Harmony" were the "Christian Psalmist,"
                    the "Sacred Melodeon," two or three of Dr. Lowell
                    Mason's books (which used the Guidonian system), several of A. D.
                    Filmore's books, and a number of others. The "Christian
                    Psalmist" and Filmore's books were written in the figure
                    system, which was invented by Rev. Thomas Harrison, a teacher. The
                    "Sacred Melodeon" was in the improved
                    "buckwheat" notation.
             Among the early singing masters of 
                 Henry County
              were Lee Shelley, afterward sheriff of the county;
                    "Sam" Hill, author of the once popular song with the chorus:
                        
                        "I am so fond of singing school I can't stay away, oh,
                            I can't stay away,"
                     and William Cole, a composer of some note. There were also Joseph Rich,
                    Joseph Shawhan, Mason Clift, George R. Pennell, Jacob M. Ward, Benjamin Hawley
                    and others. The most notable of them all, perhaps, was John Wyatt, who possessed
                    a bass voice that would have won him fame had he properly cultivated it and
                    sought his chance instead of contenting himself with country singing-schools at
                    fifty cents per scholar. He  afterward
                    became a hardware merchant at 
                        Lewisville
                    , and then a justice of the peace.
            The usual charges in these schools were fifty to seventy-five cents per pupil for
                    a term of twelve lessons, and at these rates the classes not infrequently tested
                    the holding capacities of the rooms where they met.
            So attractive were these singing-schools that a large percentage of the young
                    Quakers of fifty years ago persisted in taking part in them, despite all the
                    restraints imposed by their people, and to that fact is largely due the changed
                    attitude of the second generation of Friends toward the study of music.
            Other social features that combined diversion and social intercourse with a
                    valuable intellectual training were the debating clubs, moot courts, mock
                    legislatures, (1) and literary societies. Men who afterward became prominent in
                    the State's history as politicians, statesmen, orators and thinkers
                    had their beginnings and first fed their aspirations in these neighborhood
                    organizations which stimulated their budding powers. The debating club, moot
                    court and mock legislature afforded excellent practice in impromptu speaking and
                    in parliamentary usage. The moot courts were more common to the smaller villages
                    than to the country or large towns. The popularity of the literary society was
                    general. In the early fifties they became numerous throughout 
                
                    Henry
                 and 
                    Wayne
                 counties, and joint meetings were held in which societies from
                            
                                Spiceland
                            , 
                                Raysville
                            , 
                
                    Knightstown
                , 
                    Union
                , 
                
                    Dublin
                , 
                    Richmond
                
              and other places took part. The literary
                    club idea, so popular now, seems to have had its origin in the old literary
                    societies or "literaries," and the literary picnics or
                    associations in which they united were very similar to the club federations of
                    the present.
            One other form of assemblage that should be mentioned is the picnic, which,
                    except in the form of the fete champetre, previously spoken of, did not come in
                    until a few years before the Civil war. The ordinary picnic of to-day has for
                    its object diversion pure and simple, unrelated to any more serious purpose, but
                    originally it was connected with the idea of promoting some moral
                    cause-–temperance, the Sunday-schools, etc., or at least it was to
                    celebrate some great day in the calender, such as the  Fourth of July. So imbued were our fathers and
                    mothers with the notion that pleasure and usefulness should be combined that it
                    took them a good while to believe that the social picnic had merits of its own
                    and needed no excuse to justify its existence.
            By way of contrast to the summer picnic, mention may be made of the most popular
                out-of-door winter sport in early 
                    Henry county
                
                . This was sleighing. Before the protecting forests were cleared
                    away, our winter snows lay upon the ground much longer than they do now, and
                    sleighing was generally indulged in. Every sort of sleigh, sled, spider, jumper
                    or other sliding vehicle took its place upon the highways and contributed its
                    mite to the variety and picturesqueness of the daily show. Almost every man and
                    boy knew how to construct a sled of some kind. The most primitive kind was the
                    hickory jumper. It was often made without a nail, of long hickory poles notched
                    at the proper places to allow the curves and tied to the horse's
                    corn-husk collar. Long pins set in auger holes in the pole runners supported the
                    seat. No harness was used other than the bridle and lines and the collar, to
                    which the pole shafts were tied by strings. The jumper was a mere skeleton of
                    the roughest form, but the sport of riding one was heightened by its crudeness.
                    On the other hand, the fine, strong sleighs made from natural runners and
                    provided with handsome, comfortable bodies and seats by the local workmen, were
                    the pleasantest and easiest-going of all vehicles. People did not then hesitate
                    to start out on sleigh journeys of many days' duration with but little
                    fear of a sudden passing away of the snow. (2)
            The various conferences, associations, synodical gatherings and camp and
                    protracted meetings of the various sects represented in the early religious life
                    of 
                
                    Henry county
                , including the monthly and quarterly meetings of the Friends, were
                    times of reunion among old associates, and for the extension of generous
                    hospitality, and also for a decorous exercise of the social spirit. Visitors to
                    such meetings from a distance were freely entertained by the people who lived in
                    the vicinities of the churches where the gatherings assembled. When the Henry county
                Quakers went up to 
                
                    Richmond
                 to yearly meeting, they were made at home by the Friends of the
                    town or surrounding farms. As at least three States were represented in these
                    meetings, it  was no small tax upon the
                generosity of the Richmond Quakers and their neighbors.
            A like spirit was manifested by the other sects. Those who were the recipients of
                    such hospitality understood very well that any contributions of provisions they
                    might make would be welcome, but they were welcomed without question when they
                    came empty-handed. The exchange of friendly amenities and the extention of
                    acquaintance served to give the meetings a social value that is lacking in the
                    more formal gatherings of the present day. The summer or autumnal camp-meetings
                    at which families of the same faith collected, from near and far, and dwelt in
                    rough cabins or tents, sometimes for weeks, were not only times of intense
                    religious aspirations and endeavor, but were, also social in their character.
                    The well-ordered camp, the cool shades, the meals partaken of in the woods or at
                    a common table, and the hours open to converse and pleasant promenades between
                    the hours of preaching, hymn-singing and worship, were wholly social in their
                    character and effects.
            In this connection it may be well to note that many of the religious
                    denominations which are now strong in the county were but little known in its
                    earlier life. As said, the Friends, Baptists, Methodists and Presbyterians were
                    the first. After the large immigrations of the thirties set in, the Christians
                    or Campbellites began an earnest work of proselyting and grew rapidly. To the
                    later period, also, belong the United Brethren, German Baptists, Dunkards or
                    Tunkers, Lutherans, Allbrights or German Methodists, Episcopalians, Roman
                    Catholics, Universalists, Hicksite Friends, Spiritualists, and African
                    Methodists. These have been or are now prominent in the county.
            The Dunkards have always been considered a peculiar people, especially in the
                    quaintness of their garb and in the refusal of the men "to mar the
                    corners of the beard," as well as in certain of their religious rites,
                    such as the kissing between the full-bearded brethren, their foot-washings and
                    their making of the Lord's Supper a generous meal. The shad coat, with
                    standing collar, the broad-brimmed hat and the absence of buttons from the
                    clothing are as characteristic of the masculine members of the church as they
                    were of the old-time Quakers. Some Dunkards  used to discard buttons altogether and fasten their coats and vests with
                    hooks and eyes, which were hidden from view.
            EDITORIAL NOTES. 1. An odd diversion that
                    seemed to prevail during the thirties was the "mock
                    legislature." We say prevailed, for though the local histories make
                    very little mention of it, occasional notices in contemporary newspapers
                    indicate that it was popular. A word from some of our older readers describing
                    this institution would be very acceptable. The "
                
                    Indianapolis
                 Legislature" flourished for several years during the
                    thirties.
            2. Mr. Parker omits to mention the "bob-sled" as a very
                    important factor in the enjoyment of winter. As to when the bobsled was
                    introduced we are not informed, but it is no modern innovation. It consisted of
                    two short pairs of runners set tandem, the front pair responding freely to the
                    tongue like the front wheels of a wagon, thus affording extra length for a
                    sleigh, and at the same time turning with safety. Primarily it was designed for
                    heavy hauling, but it lent itself admirably to social purposes when, surmounted
                    by a big box-bed partially filled with clean straw, it made a snug, warm nest
                    for a dozen or so boys and girls. Probably no social bunch on earth was ever
                    more in hilarious evidence than the jolly bob-sled party of a moonlight night
                    when the big runners sang a song to the crisp snow on the well-beaten road and
                    the mettlesome horses tugged at the taut lines, while their flying hoofs beat a
                    tattoo and the bells jangled merrily. Doubtless the old bob-sled was a potent
                    promoter of the gentler passion and early marriages, for a half-score of buxom
                    damsels and husky swains jumbled together within the compass of a box-bed was a
                    powerful stimulus to love's young dream. In chronicles of the past let
                    not the bob-sled be forgotten. As one appreciative poet sings: 
                        "Good old Mr. Bob-sled, Though yer out o' style, Still
                            ye've got these other sleds beat a thousan' mile.
                            Least that's my opinion, An' I'd ort
                            t' know, 'Cause we was just like kinfolks forty years
                                ago."*
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  * W. M. Herschell.
            
            
            Another omission of Mr. Parker's is the spelling-school, perhaps the
                    most famous of all the old institutions, and the popularity of which still
                    continues in some districts. The world at large is familiar with Edward
                    Eggleston's description in the "Hoosier Schoolmaster"
                    of a spelling-match. Little perhaps, can be added to that, except that the
                    method of spelling as there given does not correspond exactly to the common
                    method of a later day. There the heads of the classes are pitted against each
                    other and the spelling is confined to them until one misses, when the next in
                    line takes his place. The mode with which we are familiar carries back and forth
                    and down the standing lines from head to foot and back again till the poorer
                    spellers are weeded out and the better following till one side is down. The
                    rivalry and personal ambition and feeling involved in these contests were quite
                    as intense as Mr. Eggleston portrays them, and all participants will recall the
                    excitement and little tremor of dread that always went with the possibility of
                    defeat. No other intellectual practice of our fathers, perhaps, so engendered
                    and fed a desire for neighborhood glory as these trials of orthographic skill,
                    and the cultivation in this direction was quite out of proportion to that of the
                    other branches of the simple country-school curricula. Prompted by the thirst
                    for glory, many a country boy consumed what might be called the midnight tallow
                    at home over his spelling-book with an assiduity that nothing else could have
                    caused. The absolute standard of authority generally recognized was the
                    spelling-book then in use, and any appeal from that to a lexicon where words
                    were spelled more ways than one was considered an unfair subterfuge and was
                    frowned down. The familiarity with the words as arranged in the spelling-book
                    columns was ofttimes amusing, and not infrequently, as we well remember, when
                    the first word was given out and spelled, the following ones were successively
                    tripped off the tongue with a swiftness that left him who pronounced following
                    after, functionless and bewildered, till finally some one failed to remember.
                    The pupils of a school considered the privilege of an occasional spelling bee a
                    vested right, and as a rule the little district schoolhouse was crowded to its
                    limit, not only by the young people who participated but also by their elders,
                    who sat sedately by witnessing with parental pride the performances of their
                    offspring.
         
         
         
            INTERNAL IMPROVEMENTS IN INDIANA.
            No. II—THE NATIONAL ROAD.
            
                    BY SMILEY N. CHAMBERS
                
             [This paper was read before the Indiana Centennial Association, at 
                 
                     Indianapolis
                 , July 4, 1900. It is here slightly abridged. The full text may be
                    found in the 
                        
                            Indianapolis
                         Journal for July 15, 1900.]
            NEED OF A GREAT HIGHWAY.
            Our fathers, endowed with wisdom, courage and foresight, possessing a broad,
                    though by no means adequate, prophecy of the future development of the country,
                    early saw the importance of a public highway connecting the Eastern coast fringe
                    with the broad and undeveloped West. The Eastern coast cities were looking
                    toward the West for increase of commercial business. The mountains quite
                    effectually shut off communications between the sections. But west, between the
                Blue Ridge and the 
                Mississippi River, even beyond, lay a
                    vast territory covered with splendid forests, a fertile soil, magnificent
                        lakes and splendid
                    rivers—an empire of unoccupied territory; the great
                Ohio river with its tributaries flowing into the 
                Mississippi, at the mouth of which was situated 
                
                    New Orleans
                , with its rapidly increasing population. This splendid territory
                    was to be subdued and occupied by the courageous and thrifty pioneer. Indians
                    yet occupied much of it. The entire possession was exposed to invasion from
                    north and south, not to speak of the frequent uprisings of the savages. The
                    protective power of the East was required. It was early impressed upon those
                    having charge of national affairs that military necessity, as well as commercial
                    prosperity, required easy modes of communication between the widely separated
                    sections of the country. The purchase of new territory, extending the limits of
                    our domain, emphasized the necessity of adopting the best means of securing it
                    and utilizing its resources. This was to be a great country. It should be bound
                    together with the strongest possible bonds. Nothing better could be devised than
                    a great public highway, leading from the cities of the East across the mountain
                    ranges,  first to the navigable waters of the 
                Ohio, where water communication could be had with the South, and,
                second, on to the Mississippi river, where a small
                    settlement already was established. In our day of great railroad systems,
                    telegraph lines and steamboat navigation, this does not seem to be much of an
                    enterprise, but to our fathers, with but a few million people behind them, with
                    a treasury of limited means, it was an undertaking of magnificent proportions
                    and lofty patriotism. It early enlisted the earnest attention and interest of
                    the foremost men of the Nation.
            PRELIMINARY STEPS.
            As early as 1797 a resolution was introduced upon the subject, but nothing more
                was done at that time. By an act of Congress April 30, 1802, the people of 
                
                    Ohio
                 were enabled to form a constitutional government. It was therein
                    provided that 2 per cent. of the proceeds of the sales of public lands within
                    her limits should be held and applied in the construction of a public highway
                    leading from some point on the coast to a point within her borders. A like
                    provision was made in the act admitting Indiana into the Union, reserving 2 per
                    cent. of the proceeds of her public lands for similar purpose. The effect of
                    these provisions never dawned upon the minds of those enacting the laws.
                    Nevertheless they were very important and far-reaching, as will be seen later
                    on. They may almost be said to have been providentially inserted, for, trivial
                    as they seemed, they became the lever which the advocates of larger expenditures
                    for internal improvements used in advocacy of the doctrine of implied power in
                    the government under the Constitution for the appropriation of public moneys,
                    and the doing by the government of many things, the power to do which was denied
                    by some of the ablest men of the time. The Cumberland, or, as it is more
                    properly known in this section, the National Road, was frequently the subject of
                    acrimonious debate by the ablest men in Congress. It was the occasion of an able
                    message from President Monroe, and, in connection with the Chesapeake and Ohio canal, 
                    entered largely into the campaign of 1824, and became an
                    object of universal discussion East and West.
            An act was approved March 29, 1806 (the first congressional action taken), to
                    regulate the laying out and making a road 
                from 
                    Cumberland
                 in the State of 
                
                    Maryland
                , the head waters of the Potomac, to the State of 
                
                    Ohio
                . The President was authorized to appoint three discreet and
                disinterested citizens of the 
                
                    United States
                 to lay out a road from Cumberland, or a point on the northern bank
                of the River Potomac in the State of 
                
                    Maryland
                 between there and the place where the main road leading from Givins
                to Winchester in 
                
                    Virginia
                 crosses the river, to the State of 
                
                    Ohio
                , whose duty it shall be, as soon as may be after their appointment,
                to repair to 
                    Cumberland
                 aforesaid and view the grounds from the points on the
                River Potomac hereinbefore designated to the River
                    there, and to lay out in such direction as they shall judge under all the
                    circumstances the most proper, a road from thence to the Ohio river, to strike the same at the most convenient place between a
                point on its eastern bank opposite to the northern boundary of 
                    Steubenville
                 in
                said State of 
                    Ohio
                 and the mouth of Grave creek, which empties into the said river a
                little below Wheeling, 
                
                    Va.
                 It should be four rods wide and designated on each
                    side by marks on trees or by stakes at every quarter mile. The commission should
                    report to the President, who might accept or reject in whole or in part the
                    report. If he should accept, he should pursue such measures as in his opinion
                    should be proper to obtain consent for making the road of the State or States
                    through which the same was laid out.
            The act further provides: "In case the trees are standing they shall be
                    cleared the whole width of four rods (sixty-five feet) and the road shall be
                    raised in the middle of the carriage way with stone, earth or gravel and sand,
                    or a combination of some or all of them, leaving or making, as the case may be,
                    a ditch or water course on each side and contiguous to said carriage way, and in
                    no instance should there be an elevation in said road when finished greater than
                    an angle of 5 degrees with the horizon. But the manner of making said road, in
                    every other particular, is left to the direction of the President" (a
                    rather grave responsibility). Thirty thousand dollars was appropriated
                    "to defray the expense of laying and making roads to the State of 
                Ohio
                by virtue of the act of 1802." There was no provision in
                    this act for the exercise of the right of eminent domain. There seems to have
                    been no necessity for such provision,  for we
                    learn from the report of the commissioners that everybody wanted the road to
                    come his way. But one man refused to join the government in the appointment of
                    appraisers. He three times petitioned Congress for relief, but each committee to
                    which his petition was referred reported against him, and finally he appealed to
                    his own State, 
                        Virginia
                    , but his petition was ignored.
            PROGRESS REPORTED.
            December 30, 1806, this commission made a report of progress, premising the
                    report with the statement that "the duties imposed by law become of
                    greater magnitude and a task much more arduous than was conceived before
                    entering upon it." They had employed "a surveyor of
                    professional merit" (sic), "two chain-carriers, a marker, one
                    vaneman, a pack-horse man and a horse," the latter being described as
                    indispensable and really beneficial in accelerating the work. They had examined
                    a space "comprehending two thousand square miles, a task rendered still
                    more incumbent by the solicitude and importunities of the inhabitants of every
                    part of the district, who severally conceived their grounds entitled to
                    preference."
            The highest consideration governing the commission was, first, shortness of
                    distance between navigable points on the eastern and western waters; second, a
                    point on the Monongahela best calculated to equalize the advantage of this
                portage in the country within reach of it; third, a point on the 
                Ohio river most capable of combining certainty of navigation with road
                    accommodations, including in the estimate remote points westwardly, as well as
                    present and probable population in the North and South; fourth, best method of
                    diffusing benefits with the least distance of road.
            The President had evidently been successful in selecting discreet and
                    disinterested citizens. They seem to have done their work diligently and with an
                    eye single to their duties under the law. They fixed the starting point at 
                
                    Cumberland
                , "a decision founded on propriety and in some measure on
                    necessity." It ended at a point below the mouth of Wheelen's
                    creek and the lower part of Wheelen's island. The route was twenty-four
                    and a half miles in 
                
                    Maryland
                , seventy-five and a half miles 
                in 
                    Pennsylvania
                 and twelve miles in 
                
                    Virginia
                . There was much contention between 
                    Brownsville
                 and 
                    Uniontown
                , 
                Pa.
                , for the road, but the latter secured the prize.
                    The commissioners were looking to further extensions of the road, for they say
                    in locating the road through 
                        Brownsville
                     it was seen that 
                        Wheeling
                     lay in a line from 
                        Uniontown
                     to the
                center of the State of 
                    Ohio
                
                and 
                    Post Vincennes
                    . The latter was then territorial capital, the home of General
                    Harrison, and swelling with prospects of future greatness. In this same year Vincennes
                    University was liberally endowed with lands by Congress, and the
                    progressive citizens of the post that year formed a library association which in
                    a few years accumulated a library of most excellent books, which now are the
                    property of the university. Attention throughout the country was much attracted
                    toward this point. Jefferson in his message to Congress conveying the report
                    refers to this suggestion of conveying the road through 
                
                    Vincennes
                 as passing through "a very interesting section of the
                    country."
            The commissioners estimated the expense of the construction of the road at
                    $6,000 per mile, and this conclusion was reached by recurring to the
                    experience of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and 
                        Maryland
                     in the business of artificial roads. As to the policy of increasing
                    this expense, it is not, they say, the province of these commissioners to
                    declare, but they can not, however, withhold assurances of a firm belief that
                    the purse of the Nation can not be more seasonably opened or more happily
                    applied than in promoting the speedy and effectual establishment of a great and
                    necessary road in the way contemplated.
            JEFFERSON'S ACTION.
            In January, 1807, Mr. Jefferson, in a message to Congress, transmitted the report
                    of these commissioners. He says: "On receipt of the report I took
                    measures to obtain consent for making the road of the States of
                Pennsylvania, Maryland
                and Virginia, through which the commissioners proposed to lay it out. I have
                received acts of the legislatures of 
                    Maryland
                 and 
                    Virginia
                 giving the consent desired. That of 
                    Pennsylvania
                
                has the subject still under consideration, as is supposed. Until I
                    have received consent to a free choice of route through the whole distance I
                    have thought it safest neither to accept nor reject  finally the partial report of the commissioners.
                    Some matters suggested in the report belong exclusively to the
                    legislature." In February, 1808, Mr. Jefferson reported that he had
                    received the consent of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    
                and had consequently approved the route proposed to 
                    Uniontown
                , and
                    then continues:
             "From thence the course to the Ohio
                 and the point within the legal limits at which it shall strike the
                    river is still to be decided. In forming this decision I shall pay material
                    regard to the interests and wishes of the populous parts of the State of 
                 
                     Ohio
                  and to a future and convenient connection with the road which is to
                 lead from the Indiana boundary near 
                 
                     Cincinnati
                  by 
                     Vincennes
                 
                 to the Mississippi at 
                 
                     St. Louis
                 , under authority of the act of the 21st of April, 1806. In this way
                    we may accomplish a continued and advantageous line of communication from the
                    seat of the general government to 
                        St. Louis
                    , passing through several very interesting parts of the Western
                    country."
            The government was gradually being committed to a general system of internal
                    improvements. Much criticism was made of Jefferson. His course was justified
                    upon the proposition that the government was pledged to the construction of this
                    road by the reservation in the act admitting 
                        Ohio
                     into the Union at 2 per cent. of the proceeds of sales of public
                    lands within its limits. But in the above suggestion Mr. Jefferson was running
                    ahead of this proposition, for as yet no provision as to Indiana and 
                
                    Illinois
                 public lands had been made.
             Nevertheless, this road to 
                 Wheeling
              was constructed and became a great
                 thoroughfare. Mr. Mitchell, of 
                     Maryland
                 , in 1823, in a report on the practicability of connecting the
                 Susquehanna with the 
                 Ohio, says: "It has been estimated that in the year 1823 there
                    were, on an average, 2,555 wagoners employed in the transportation of
                    merchandise from 
                        Philadelphia
                     to Pittsburg
                 alone; that they carried 89,425 hundred-weight, which
                 was valued at $17,885,000. From 
                 
                     Baltimore
                 , in the same year, merchandise to the value of
                    $12,000,000 was transported over this highway."
            The West was growing rapidly in population and political power. In 1816 Indiana
                    was admitted to the Union, and 2 per cent. of the proceeds of the sales was
                    reserved for the construction of this road. 
                        Illinois
                     was rapidly increasing in population,  while the great territory west of the 
                Mississippi
                was opening up grandly to the vision of the home-seekers. The
                    people were growing impatient for means of intercommunication between
                    them and those of the East. The spirit of internal improvment popularly known as
                    the "American system" was rapidly growing, but the pioneers
                    were poor and the States hardly yet organized. The pressure upon the government
                    for more rapid action was great.
            DIFFERENCE OF OPINION.
            In the meantime division became more acute among statesmen as to the power of the
                    federal government to collect and expend money in such enterprises. As early as
                    1815 the somewhat exuberant Madison in a message to Congress refers to the great importance of
                    establishing throughout the country the roads and canals which can be best
                    executed under national authority. "No objects," he says,
                    "within the circle of political economy so richly repay the expense
                    bestowed on them; there are none the utility of which is more universally
                    ascertained and acknowledged; none that do more honor to the government whose
                    wise and enlarged patriotism duly appreciate them. Nor is there any country
                    which presents a field where nature invites more the art of man to contemplate
                    her own work for his accommodation and benefit. These considerations are
                    strengthened, moreover, by the political effect of these facilities for
                    intercommunication in bringing and binding more closely together the various
                    parts of our extended confederacy. While the States individually, with a
                    laudable enterprise and emulation, avail themselves of their local advantages by
                    new roads, by navigable canals and by improving the streams susceptible of
                    navigation, the general government is the better adapted to similar undertakings
                    requiring a national jurisdiction and national means, by the prospect of thus
                    systematically completing so inestimable a work; and it is a happy reflection
                    that any defect of constitutional authority which may be encountered can be
                    supplied in a mode which the Constitution itself has providently pointed
                    out."
            This latter suggestion evidently meant an amendment to the Constitution. A
                    resolution was introduced in Congress looking  to that result, but was voted down by those who believed that the implied
                    powers under the Constitution were sufficiently broad to warrant such
                    expenditures. The West was unwilling to wait the slow method of constitutional
                    amendment.
            The thirteen States which had entered into the League of Confederation occupied
                territorial possessions upon the Atlantic
                stretched out upon a coast line
                    greater in length than fifteen degrees of latitude. Each desired a commerce of
                    its own upon the ocean, and such methods of developing its internal resources as
                    were dictated by the varieties of soil and climate, and by the habits and
                    customs of the inhabitants.
            It is strange to us that there was no national effort to construct a great
                    highway along the coast, connecting the great cities along it, uniting New England
                    and the South. The failure can be accounted for only upon the
                    theory that each State was jealous of its own possessions, of its own
                    development. State pride, or, as we term it, State rights, diverted the national
                    energies in the directions of those regions the trade and commerce of which were
                    open to all, where to subdue the Indians and to open up new territories for a
                    rapidly accumulating population might be found a common ground of action. Thus
                    along the line of the  National Road, over the mountains into the vast and virgin
                forests of 
                    Ohio
                , Indiana and 
                    Kentucky
                , the star of empire took its course. Even here there were
                    encountered difficulties arising from the necessity for passing through the
                    States of 
                        Maryland
                    , 
                        Va.
                     and 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . Special acts of consent by these States were required to permit
                    the location and construction of the road. As we have already seen, Mr.
                    Jefferson refused to proceed to any steps until these acts had been passed.
            A PERPLEXING QUESTION
            The more perplexing question in the way of completing the enterprise was, had
                    Congress the power to appropriate the public money for carrying on a general
                    system of internal improvements? This question had been growing in importance
                    for a number of years. It entered into political discussions and divided the
                    people. Both Jefferson and Monroe had used public funds in the acquisition of territory, Jefferson in
                    the purchase  of Louisiana Territory from 
                
                    France
                , and Monroe of 
                    Florida
                     from 
                        Spain
                    . Both purchases were opposed by many able men upon constitutional
                    grounds. So that when Congress, in 1822, passed an act authorizing the
                    expenditure of further public funds for the further extension of the Cumberland
                    or National Road, the act was met by a veto from Mr. Monroe. Mr. Monroe had
                    belonged to the school of strict constructionists. He was opposed to the rule
                    followed by Washington, with the support of Hamilton, "That congressional power was not limited by the express
                    grants of the Constitution, but that it included such implied powers as were
                    necessary to execute the express powers." He was more inclined to
                    follow the "strict construction" theory of Jefferson and Madison. "His veto message," says Colonel Thompson,
                    "was the longest and most labored ever sent to Congress, and subjected
                    him to severe criticism, especially in the "West, where the sentiment
                    in favor of the road was very strong. He was charged with inconsistency in using
                    public funds for the purchase of 
                        Florida
                    , as Jefferson had in the purchase of 
                
                    Louisiana
                , and yet was willing so to restrict the powers of the government in
                    regard to internal improvements that the country should be left dependent upon
                    the State alone, without any aid whatever from the general government."
                    Colonel Thompson adds: "The new States interested in the Cumberland
                    road were occupied by an industrious population, engaged in clearing away the
                    forests, in order to make their lands more productive and profitable, and were
                    consequently not in condition to be taxed by the States, even for inprovements
                    absolutely necessary for local purposes. They reasoned that if the national
                    government possessed the power to acquire foreign territory, or to exercise
                    ownership over the public domain within the States, it must necessarily and
                    logically possess also the incidental power to make interstate improvements, in
                    order thereby to induce emigration from the old to the new States, to increase
                    the value and sales of the public lands, and to add to the general
                    prosperity."
            It is to be said to the credit of Mr. Monroe that he modified his views, and even
                    in his veto message he says: "It is contended on the one side that as
                    the national government is a government of limited powers, it has no right to
                    expend money  except in the performance of
                    acts authorized by the other specific grants, according to a strict construction
                    of their powers; that this grant, in neither of its branches, gives to Congress
                    discretionary power of any kind, but it is a mere instrument in its hands to
                    carry into effect the powers contained in the other grants. To this construction
                    I was inclined in the more early stage of our government, but on further
                    reflection and observation my mind has undergone a change."
            Even thus early we find that the national development and extension of
                    population, with new necessities, were effecting in the minds of new statesmen a
                    change of views as to the powers conferred by the Constitution. We can but
                    wonder how the face of things would be changed had the trend of thought in the
                    direction of limiting the powers of the government to those expressly conferred
                    prevailed, when we recall the vast sums expended in various ways for the
                    extension of commerce, the building of canals, improvement of rivers and
                    harbors, irrigating waste lands and the construction of vast railways. What an
                    economy the other view would have brought to the people; but with what
                    inconvenience and obstruction to development of the country can not be
                    described.
            MONROE'S VETO.
            I make bold to copy one paragraph from this veto message of Mr. Monroe. While we
                    have great respect for the ability and patriotism of our early statesmen, from
                    our position of vast acquirements and splendid facilities for transportation we
                    are somewhat amused at the arguments used by them and the illustrations with
                    which they were illuminated. He is speaking of the constitutional provision for
                    establishing post-offices and post roads, and says:
             "The object is the transportation of the mail throughout the 
                 
                     United States
                 , which may be done on horseback, and was so done until lately.
                    Between the great towns and other places where the population is dense, stages
                    are preferred because they afford an additional opportunity to make profit from
                    passengers; but where the population is sparse, and on crossroads, it is
                    generally carried on horseback, unconnected with passengers and other objects.
                    It can not be doubted that the mail itself 
                    may be carried in every part of our Union with nearly as much economy and
                    greater dispatch on horseback than in a stage, and in many parts with much
                    greater. In every part of the country in which stages can be preferred the roads
                    are sufficiently good, provided those which serve for every other purpose will
                    accommodate them. In every other part where horses alone are used, if other
                    people pass them on horseback, surely the mail carriers can. For an object so
                    simple and so easy in its execution it would doubtless excite surprise if it
                    should be thought proper to appoint commissioners to lay off the country in a
                    great scheme of improvement, with the power to shorten distances, reduce
                    heights, level mountains and pave surfaces."
            In view of our great expenditures and the splendid facilities for distributing
                    the mail now enjoyed, this carries a high flavor of humor. Yet it is part of one
                    of the ablest messages ever sent to Congress by a President of the 
                
                    United States
                . The question of the power of the government to make internal
                    improvements became the dividing line between political parties, and the
                    presidential campaign of 1824 was fought out upon it, the Cumberland road and
                    the Chesapeake & Ohio canal being most under discussion. It appeared in the courts, and
                    the great doctrine of the implied power of Congress, under the Constitution, to
                    make enactments and expenditures of public funds for which there was no express
                    authority in its provisions was filially judicially declared by Chief Justice
                    John Marshall, in the case of McCullough vs. The State of 
                
                    Maryland
                , in which it was decided that the State of 
                
                    Maryland
                 could not tax the shares of the stock in the 
                
                    United States
                 Bank because it was prohibited from doing so by the act
                    establishing the bank.
            THE QUESTION IN CONGRESS.
            There was scarcely a session of Congress from 1815 to 1846 in which the
                    Cumberland road was not under discussion. It was always asking appropriations
                    for surveys, construction and repairs. Every inch of it was fought over time and
                    again. It was the subject of ridicule as well as oratorical flights. The ablest
                    men of any time and country discussed its merits. It was spoken of as this noble
                    monument of our enterprise and industry, this great artery of communication
                    between the East and the  West, so essential
                    to our intercourse and our prosperity. But the spirit of progress and material
                    development usually came out victorious, winning its way against adverse
                    majorities by some hook or crook. Mr. Barbour, of
                
                    Virginia
                , who was opposed to the extension of the powers of the federal
                    government beyond the constitutional limits, at one time said: "The
                    only question is, shall we enjoy it or from fastidious technicality refuse it?
                    To appropriate money out of the public treasury to keep it in repair is unjust
                    and involves as strongly the constitutional question. The circumstances of this
                    case being peculiar, this measure can not be considered as a precedent in
                    reference to the general question." So he voted for the bill, as did
                    others, and it passed. Whether the fact that 
                
                    Virginia
                 by a legislative act had authorized the government to complete,
                    establish and regulate this road as to them might seem proper, affected his vote
                    can not now be told. But thus it was that the powers of the general government
                    grew, little by little, local and personal interests often having a large
                    influence, until not only a national road and canals, but a national banking
                    system was finally projected and carried into effect; and the foundations of the
                    great American Republic were laid firm and deep—a continent in a
                    hundred years has been subdued, unprecented progress and development followed.
                    The wonder of all generations is now the great American people.
            John C. Calhoun, then secretary of war, communicated to the House of
                    Representatives a very lengthy letter on roads and canals, 
                  
                     
                         "With a View to Military Operations in Times of
                                    War." In it he says: "A judicious system of
                                    roads and canals constructed for the convenience of commerce and
                                    the transportation of the mail only, without any reference to
                                    military operations, is of itself among the most efficient means
                                    for the more complete defense of the 
                            
                                United States
                            . Such a system, by consolidating our Union,
                                    increasing our wealth and fiscal capacity, would add greatly to
                                    our resources of war." 
                     
                  
                He then suggests a vast system of roads to be laid out and constructed
                    under the supervision of the Department of War, and that the engineers of the
                    army be used in surveying and the soldiers be utilized in constructing them.
                    This suggestion was not followed. Mr. Hemphill says: "It is curious to
                    witness the alarm which is occasionally excited  concerning the exercise of constructive powers when
                    Congress is never in session a week without acting upon them. We have only to
                    look at the statute books for instances, as the law relating to fugitives who
                    are held to labor in any of the slave States, the laws regulating the carrying
                    of mail, the Bank of the 
                        United States
                    , the Military Academy, light houses, post houses and trading houses
                    among the Indians; all are creations of constitutional powers. So are the laws
                    relating to revenue cutters, the navy hospital, pension and gratuitous grants of
                    money, and in the same class may be placed laws concerning vaccination and for
                    the civilization of the vine. Yes, Mr. Chairman, we not only make laws which are
                    the mere offspring of constructive powers, but we enforce them by high penalties
                    and the infliction of punishment of death."
            SECTIONAL FEELING.
            It was proposed by a bill in 1817 to use the dividends from the shares in the
                bank of the 
                    United States
                 for twenty years, which was the period of the charter, in the
                    further extension and repair of the Cumberland road. It passed both Houses, but
                    was vetoed by President Madison.
            The feeling between the West and the East at times grew very intense on this
                    subject. In 1827, when the question was before the House upon appropriating
                    sufficient funds for continuing the work, Mr. Johnson, of 
                
                    Kentucky
                , said:
                    "I am sorry to perceive that the people of the West were obliged to
                    contend, inch by inch, for every inch of ground they obtained in this road. For
                    twenty years they had been begging for little by little, and now, after the
                    completion of the Cumberland road had been settled as a principle, they were
                    opposed by the same opposition as had been made at first. The Western members
                    were never backward in voting for fortifications and other improvements on the
                    seaboard, and it was a hardship; the objects for the good of the Western States
                    were uniformly opposed." (Congressional Debates, Volume 3.)
            In the same debate Mr. Noble, of Indiana, said, speaking at
                    "considerable length": "The provision in the act of
                    1821 was inserted for the same reason that the 2 per cent. was filched from the
                    Western States to make the road through 
                
                    Pennsylvania
                
                 and 
                    Virginia
                 to 
                    Ohio
                . The gentleman from 
                    Pennsylvania
                 was very willing that the work should stop, because the road
                through his own State was finished. The 
                    United States
                 had taken the money and had undertaken to build the road, and now
                    the benefits were withheld from the Western States because they were not
                    sufficiently strong to enforce their rights, but (in a defiant mood) they would
                    hereafter be able to claim them, and their fathers of the old States would be
                    forced to yield them justice." He wished to know what authority the 
                
                    United States
                 had to take the money of the States of the West and expend it to
                    construct roads through two States, while the people in the forests were left to
                    struggle through the swamps and morasses, yet whenever any relief was asked by
                    the West they were met with constitutional scruples and difficulties.
            The motion to strike out the appropriation was rejected and the West was
                    victorious; $30,000 was appropiated for the repair and maintenance of
                    the road.
            December 31, 1827, Mr. Noble introduced a bill for a continuation of the
                    Cumberland road, which he prefaced by remarking that under the administration of
                    Jefferson the first bill for the construction of the Cumberland road was passed,
                    when Congress clearly held out to the people of the West that it should be
                    continued. He wanted that pledge redeemed. The bill authorized the completion of
                    the work to 
                        Zanesville, 
                O., and provided for a
                survey to the seat of government of the State of 
                
                    Missouri
                .
             In 1833 a bill was introduced to continue the road from Vandalia to 
                 
                     Jefferson City
                 , 
                     Mo.
                  An amendment was offered by Mr. Benton to continue it thence
                 to the western frontier of 
                     Missouri
                  in the direction of the military post on the Missouri
                 river above the mouth of 
                     Kansas
                  (Fort Leavenworth), and to the intersection of the route for the
                 commerce from 
                     Missouri
                  to 
                     Santa Fe
                 . He considered his amendment as "a link in the
                 chain of the great road from 
                 
                     Washington City
                  to 
                     Santa Fe
                 , the two ends of which had been either made or marked
                 out by the federal government, and only the link in 
                     Missouri
                  remaining to be filled up to complete the longest line of road made
                    by any government since the time of the Roman empire. Benton's amendment was lost 
                    and the longest road did not
                    materialize in the bill passed.
            
            END OF THE ROAD.
            The road was constructed, in many parts very imperfectly, through Indiana and as
                far as 
                    Vandalia
                , 
                    Ill.
                 It could get no further. It had dragged its slow length
                    along for nearly half a century. It was, however, finally overtaken by the steam
                    railway and then ceased to exist as an object of national concern. This road was
                    under discussion as late as in 1846. Upon this occasion the celebrated Georgian,
                    Mr. Yancey, said:
            "When the project of the Cumberland road was first conceived, it was
                    needed as a great highway for the trade and produce of the fertile west to find
                    an outlet on the Atlantic
                coast. The mountains intervened between the
                Ohio valley and the 
                Atlantic coast. Steam, not then in
                such general use as now, had not rendered the upper Ohio
                navigable; railroads had not clamped as now with iron bands the
                    trembling earth. The rich produce of the soil found its way to market over rough
                    roads upon the lumbering wagons, and the traveler when jolted over them at the
                    rate of sixty miles a day considered himself as doing a good day's
                    work. How different now! The broad Ohio
                is navigable by hundreds of floating palaces, propelled against its
                    current by fire-breathing engines. The mountains are pierced by railroads and
                    canals. *
                    *
                    * Why, sir, men are behind the times with this
                    old road. The spirit of the age is onward. Thirty miles an hour on land; a
                    thousand miles a minute on Professor Morse's wires is deemed ordinary
                    speed. On this road, my friend from Indiana (Mr. Owen), informs me that during
                    parts of the year he has been able to make but two miles an hour on
                    horseback."
            In 1848 an act was passed surrendering to the State of Indiana the Cumberland
                    road. Mr. Hannegan, of Indiana, introduced the bill in the Senate. It was
                    accepted by the State. Similar action was taken with reference to those portions
                    in other States, and the "National Road" was no longer a
                    federal institution.
            THE ROAD IN Indiana.
            By an act of the General Assembly of Indiana, approved January 16, 1849, the
                    Central Plank Road Company was incorporated. The commissioners named in this act
                    were Nicholas McCarty, William Morrison, William Robson, Jeremiah Johnson and J.
                    F.  Oaks, of 
                
                    Marion county
                ; John Templin, Nathan Crawford and David S. Gooding, of 
                        Hancock county
                    ; Jesse Hocket, Joseph Lawhead and George Kneigh, of 
                        Hendricks county
                    , and William Eaglesfield, David Scott and Gilmore Connelly, of 
                        Putnam county
                    . By Section 17 of this act it is provided as follows:
            "Section 17. This corporation is hereby empowered to take possession of,
                    occupy and use, for the purpose of constructing a plank road thereon, all that
                    portion of road known as 'the National Road,' together with
                    the bridges, timber, stone, gravel or other materials now belonging to said
                    road, lying between the eastern line of the county of 
                        Hancock
                     and the western line of the county of 
                        Putnam
                    ; and all the rights and privileges heretofore belonging to the 
                
                    United States
                 in regard to such part of said National Road, and which have been
                    surrendered to the State of Indiana, be and the same are hereby transferred to
                    and vested in said company for the purposes contemplated in this act; provided,
                    that the president, directors and company of the 
                
                    Terre Haute
                 & 
                    Richmond
                
                Railroad Company, or any other railroad, shall have the right and
                    power of locating and constructing said railroad across said plank road and of
                    recrossing the same at such points as shall be convenient or necessary, doing no
                    injury to the same more than is absolutely necessary."
             And thus ended the National Road in Indiana.
            It had not realized the full importance hoped for it by its early projectors. It
                    did not equal the construction and splendor of the renowned roads of the Roman
                    empire and the Incas. Nevertheless, its history is a proud one. It served a
                    great purpose. Over its rough way there traveled from civilization into a new
                    and unsubdued country the sturdy and courageous pioneer. The extent to which it
                    aided in the development of our great country can never be fully written. It was
                    a noble monument to the courage and lofty patriotism of the fathers of the
                    country.
         
         
         
            MATTER RELATING TO NATIONAL ROAD IN INDIANA.
            OF works that treat of this great National enterprise as a whole may be
                    mentioned:
            
               "The Old Pike," by T. B. Searight.
               "The Cumberland Road," by Archer Butler Hulbert. No. 10
                   of the series: "Historic Highways of America."
                "The Old National Road–-a Chapter of
                        Expansion," by A. B. Hulbert. Monograph, with cuts and maps.
                "The Old National Road–-the Historic Highway of
                   America," by A. B. Hulbert. 113 pp. in Vol. IX of the 
                    
                        Ohio
                     State Archaeological and Historical Society publications.
            
             The most elaborate account we have of the National Road is in "The Old
                    Pike," a volume by T. B. Searight. Of its history at the eastern end,
                    with the currents of life that flowed over it there for many years, he makes a
                    most picturesque and readable story, but of that part that ran through Indiana
                    but little is said, and we have, indeed, some difficulty in unearthing
                    information about this section. Searight tells us that the length of the line
                    through Indiana is 149¼ miles, on which the general government expended
                    $513,099 for bridges and masonry; that the road was completed through 
                 
                     Wayne county
                  in 1827, and that in 1850 this section of it was surrendered to the 
                 
                     Wayne County
                  Turnpike Company. Something like a score of taverns were located
                 within the bounds of 
                     Wayne county
                  alone, which may be taken as something of an index to the amount of
                    travel over this road. State Geologist Blatchley, in his annual report for 1905,
                    gives the various appropriations for the work in this State, as follows:
            March 2, 1831, $75,000 for opening, grading, etc., including bridge
                over White river near 
                
                    Indianapolis
                , and progressing to the eastern and western boundaries.
            July 3, 1832, $100,000 for continuing the road in Indiana, including
                bridges over the east and west branches of Whitewater
                    river.
            March 2, 1833, $100,000 to continue the work in Indiana.
            
            June 24, 1834, $150,000 for continuing the work in Indiana.
            March 3, 1835, $100,000 for continuing the work in Indiana.
            July 2, 1836, $250,000 for continuing the road in Indiana, including
                the materials for a bridge over the Wabash river, the money
                    to be expended in completing the greatest possible continuous portion of said
                    road, so that said finished part may be surrendered to the State.
            March 3, 1837, $100,000 for continuing the road in Indiana,
            May 25, 1838, $150,000 for continuing the road in Indiana, including
                    bridges.
            "About this date," says Mr. Blatchley, "the panic of
                    1837-'40 was being felt and no more appropriations were granted. In
                    1848 the road was turned over to the respective States through which it passed.
                    Of the total amount, $6,824,919, appropriated by Congress for making,
                    repairing and continuing the road, but $1,136,600 was allotted to
                    Indiana, and this sum was paid from the fund reserved when the State was
                    admitted to the Union. Of this amount nearly one-half, or $513,099,
                    was expended for bridges and masonry. * *
                    * In 1850 the 
                        Wayne County
                     Turnpike Company was organized and absorbed, under a charter
                    granted by the State, that portion of the road, twenty-two miles in length,
                    within that county. This company then graveled the road and operated it as a
                    toll road until 1890-'94, when it was purchased by the several
                    townships through which it passed and made free from tolls. From 
                
                    Wayne county
                 westward the road passed through 
                    Henry
                , 
                    Hancock
                , 
                    Marion
                , 
                    Hendricks
                ,
                
                    Putnam
                , Clay and 
                    Vigo 
                 counties. That portion in 
                    Henry county
                 was secured by a private corporation, graveled, and made a toll
                    road about 1853. In 1849 the Central Plank Road Company, composed of prominent
                    citizens of 
                        Marion
                     and 
                        Hendricks
                     counties, was granted that portion of the road extending from the east line
                of 
                    Hancock county
                 to the west line of 
                    Putnam
                , for the purpose of constructing a plank road. With the granting of
                it to these several corporations the old National Road
                as a public institution,
                    fostered by the nation or the State, ceased to be. It had fulfilled its high
                    purpose and was superseded by better things which owed to it their
                    coming."
            
            George Carey Eggleston, writing recently for the Youth's
                        Companion, says: 
                            "The road from 
                                Cumberland
                             to 
                                Wheeling
                            
                                had cost six thousand
                                dollars a mile, without counting the cost of bridges. From the 
                                Ohio
                                forward into the West about three thousand dollars a
                            mile–-and much less as the road advanced-–sufficed.
                            On the eastern division the road was paved six inches deep in broken
                            stone; every little brook was bridged by a stone culvert, and every mile
                            of the road was drained by two deep ditches, one on each side of it.
                            West of the Ohio
                                the only work done was to clear away the timber, grub up
                            the stumps and dig ditches. There was no thought of a stone coating to
                            the roadway, and no thought of anything else except to open a track over
                            which wagons might be hauled through the mud. Here and there in creek
                            bottom lands the road was corduroyed."
                    
                
             Mr. Benjamin S. Parker, in J. J, Piatt's 
                 Ohio
                    Valley Annual, "The Hesperian Tree," for 1903,
                    gives this vivid description of travel on the old road "as seen and
                    studied by a little boy in eastern Indiana, in the eighteen-forties":
            "From morning till night there was a continual rumble of wheels, and,
                    when the rush was greatest, there was never a minute that wagons were not in
                    sight, and as a rule, one company of wagons was closely followed by another.
            "Many families occupied two or more of the big road wagons then in use,
                    with household goods and their implements, while extra horses, colts, cattle,
                    sheep and sometimes hogs were led or driven behind. Thus, when five or ten
                    families were moving in company, the procession of wagons, men, women, children
                    and stock was quite lengthy and imposing. The younger women often drove the
                    teams, while the men and boys walked by turns, to drive and look after the
                    stock; and now and then there would be an old-fashioned carriage, set upon high
                    wheels to go safely over stumps and through streams. The older women and little
                    children occupied these, and went bobbing up and down on the great leather
                    springs which were the fashion sixty years ago.
            "But everybody did not travel in that way. Single families, occupying
                    only a single one or two-horse wagon or cart, frequently  passed along, seeming as confident and hopeful as
                    the others; while even the resolute family, the members of which carried their
                    worldly possessions upon their backs or pushed them forward in hand-wagons, was
                    not an unfamiliar spectacle to the little boys who watched by the way.
            "The wagons, horses and other belongings of the movers were fair
                    indications, not only of their worldly condition and intelligence, but also of
                    the sections from whence they came. The great 
                
                    Pennsylvania
                 wagons, with their elaborately panelled beds, running up high in
                    front and rear, were also used by the better-to-do Virginians and Carolinians,
                    with this difference, that the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     wagons were very large and often drawn by four or six fine horses,
                    well matched for size and color, while the Virginians and Carolinians seldom
                    drove more than two horses. A company of these well-to-do movers with their
                    great wagons, large, well-groomed horses in heavy harness, glittering with
                    brass-headed rivets, rings and other ornaments, with bows of melodious bells,
                    either above the points of the hames or upon the heavy backhands, and with great
                    housings of bearskin covering the shoulders and red plumes nodding from the
                    headgear, was a sight that the small boy put down in his book of memory, never
                    to be forgotten.
            "Very different from these were the little Southern carts, drawn by the
                    little, bony Southern horses. It is a matter of tradition that numbers of these
                    little Carolina wagons and carts were wrought of the tough young oak timber that
                    grew upon the old fields of the South, and that the wood was so tenacious of
                    fiber and the vehicles so well constructed by the rural wagon-makers, that they
                    stood up through the journey over the mountains and along the roughest of roads
                    without the aid of so much as an iron nail, and without tires or any kind of
                    metal brace. The feet of the horses or mules that drew them were also guiltless
                    of iron, and the children in the villages and upon the farms were quick to
                    discover the arrival of a new Carolina family by the tracks of the tireless
                    wheels and shoeless horses.
            "With the tinkling of the bells, the rumbling of the wheels, the noise
                    of the animals and the chatter of the people as they went forever forward, the
                    little boy who had gone to the road  from his
                    lonesome home in the woods was captivated and carried away into the great active
                    world. But the greatest wonder and delight of all was the stage-coach, radiant
                    in new paint and drawn by its four matched horses in their showy harness, and
                    filled inside and on top with well-dressed people. I think yet that there has
                    never been a more graceful or handsome turnout than one of these fine old
                    stage-coaches drawn by a splendid team of matched horses, and driven by such
                    drivers as used to handle the ribbons between 
                
                    Richmond
                 and 
                    Indianapolis
                . We could hear the driver playing his bugle as he approached the
                    little town, and it all seemed too grand and fine to be other than a
                    dream."
            In March, 1906, just one hundred years after the first Congressional action taken
                    on the road, an attempt was made to get through Congress a bill "to
                    authorize the restoration of the Cumberland road by the Government of the 
                
                    United States
                 and providing for its reconstruction and maintenance" (see
                        
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             News for March 30, 1906). About the same time (see News, March 27), the question was raised between the 
                
                    Hancock county
                 commissioners and the 
                    Indianapolis
                
                & Eastern Traction Company as to the real ownership of the
                    road at the present day. According to the investigations of William A. Hughes,
                    an attorney of 
                        Greenfield
                    , the portion of the highway in that county was transferred first to
                    the State, then to the Central Plank Road Company, then to Barney B. Gray, then
                    to James P. Foley. During the Civil War the road was practically abandoned, and
                    it became a question as to whether the title did not pass to the land-owners on
                    either side of the way. This question, we believe, has never been settled.
            MEMORIALS, REPORTS, ETC., RELATING TO THE NATIONAL ROAD IN Indiana,
                    TO BE FOUND IN THE FEDERAL PUBLICATIONS, GIVEN IN CHRONOLOGICAL ORDER.
            1. Report on memorial from Indiana on location of Cumberland road through that
                    State. 3 pp. 1826. Senate Documents, volume 3, number 59. 2. Memorial expressive
                    of the advantages resulting from the Cumberland road and of the desire for its
                    completion. 6 pp. 1828. Senate Docs., v. 4, No. 111. 3. Commissioners for
                    locating National Road. 18 pp. 1828.  Senate
                    Docs., v. 3, No. 99. 4. Memorial in relation to the Cumberland road in the
                    State. 2 pp. 1830. House Reports v. 1, No. 174. 5. On the continuing of the
                    Cumberland road in 
                
                    Ohio
                 and Indiana. 9 pp. 1830. Senate Docs., v. 2, No. 63. 6. Report
                    relative to progress made in the construction and repair of the Cumberland road.
                    18 pp. 1833. Senate Docs., v. 1, No. 31. 7. Report of agent appointed to inspect
                    the Cumberland road in Indiana. 42 pp. 1834. Senate Docs., v. 2, No. 45. 8.
                    Report on the condition of the Cumberland road in 
                
                    Illinois
                 and Indiana. 10 pp. 1835. Senate Docs., v. 2, No. 19. 9. Report
                relative to the construction of a bridge over Wabash river
                    at crossing of Cumberland road. 7 pp. 1835. Senate Docs., v. 1, No. 10. 10.
                    Resolution to obtain further appropriations for the Cumberland road in the
                    State. 2 pp. 1836. Senate Docs., v. 2, No. 125. 11. Report of House Committee on
                    change of National Road between 
                
                    Springfield, 
                
                    O.
                , and 
                    Richmond
                 Ind. 32 pp. 1836. House Rep'ts, v. 2, No. 367. 12. Report
                on continuation of Cumberland road in 
                    Ohio
                , Indiana and 
                    Illinois
                . 7 pp. House Rep'ts, v. 3, No. 671. 13. Memorial praying
                the early completion of the Cumberland road within the States of 
                
                    Ohio
                , Indiana and 
                
                    Illinois
                . 2 pp. 1837. Senate Docs., v. 2, No. 119. 14. Memorial of citizens
                of 
                    Indianapolis
                 and vicinity in relation to the Cumberland road (Report on). 6 pp.
                    1837. House Rep'ts, v. 4, No. 1063. 15. Memorial praying the speedy
                    completion of the Cumberland road within the State. 2 pp. 1838. Senate Docs., v.
                    3, No. 180. 16. Memorial praying an appropriation for the completion of the
                    Cumberland road within the State. 2 pp. 1840. Senate Docs., v. 6, No. 310
                    (26-1). 17. Resolution in relation to the completion of Cumberland road. 4 pp.
                    1841. Senate Docs., v. 4, No. 197. 18. Memorial praying an appropriation for the
                    completion of the National Road in the State. 2 pp. 1842. Senate Docs., v. 2,
                    No. 32. 19. Report on completion of Cumberland road. 35 pp. 1846. House
                    Rep'ts, v. 2, No. 211. 20. Report on completion of Cumberland road. 47
                    pp. 1848. House Rep'ts, v. 1, No. 99. 21. Resolution relative to the
                    National Road. 1 p. 1848. Senate Misc. Docs., v. 1, No. 111.
            All of the above material may be found in the State Library.
         
         
         
            THE MICHIGAN ROAD.
            THE Michigan Road is, in a sense, a monument to the white man's
                    shrewdness in his dealings with the red man. By the Mississinewa treaty of 1826
                    a goodly portion of northern Indiana was transferred to the 
                
                    United States
                for a price that would at this day, perhaps, be equivalent to a few
                    city lots, and the following clear gift, specified in Article II of the treaty,
                    was secured by way of good measure. The article reads:
            "As an evidence of the attachment which the Pottawattamie tribe feel
                    toward the American people, and particularly to the soil of Indiana, and with a
                    view to demonstrate their liberality and benefit themselves by creating
                    facilities for traveling and increasing the value of their remaining country,
                    the said tribe do hereby cede to the 
                        United States
                    
                a strip of land, connecting at Lake Michigan
                and running thence to the Wabash river, one hundred feet
                    wide, for a road; and also one section of good land contiguous to said road for
                    each mile of the same and also for each mile of a road from termination thereof,
                    through 
                        Indianapolis
                    , to some convenient point on the Ohio river.
                    And the General Assembly of the State of Indiana shall have a right to locate
                    the said road and apply the said sections, or the proceeds thereof, to the
                    making of the same, or any part thereof; and the said road shall be at their
                    sole disposal."
            The hand of the beneficiaries would seem to be very plain in this. Why the
                    Pottawattamie Indians should feel an especial attachment to the American people,
                    who were gradually pushing them off the earth, and how they were to be benefited
                    by an inlet, the sole purpose of which was to faciliate the oncoming of the
                    usurpers, and how, by the light of previous land transfers, the value of their
                    remaining country would be enhanced to them, make a series of queries that need
                    not be discussed here. Suffice it to say that from this gift of land the
                    Michigan Road was built, the sales of land about balancing the cost of the
                        road.* The work, begun in 1828, was
                    practically a decade in 
                  
                     * The total expenditure on the road up
                            to 1840, when it ceased to appear in the Auditor's reports, is
                            given as $242,008.04, and the receipts as
                            $241,331.89, with several hundreds of acres of land still to
                            be sold.
               
                     the building, and during that period
                    occupied a prominent place in the public interest, as revealed by papers of the
                    time and by its frequent recurrence in the Governor's messages and in
                    legislation. Like the National Road, its chief service, besides the local one,
                    was as a route for immigration, and as such it was an important thoroughfare in
                    the peopling of the Wabash valley and the territory beyond,
                    until the coming of the Wabash & Erie Canal, when its usefulness lapsed. This applies
                    particularly to the northern portion of the road. Between 
                
                    Indianapolis
                 and 
                    Madison
                , prior to the establishment of the Madison railroad, it was an important thoroughfare of traffic, affording
                    the principal outlet for the capital.
             The general direction of the Michigan Road is as follows: Beginning at 
                 Trail
                     Creek, on Lake Michigan, the road runs easterly to the
                 southern bend of the St. Joseph river; thence southward to
                 the Wabash river, which it crosses; thence to 
                 
                     Indianapolis
                 ; thence southeast to 
                     Greensburg
                 ; thence south again to 
                     Madison
                 .†
            
         
         
            ROAD IMPROVEMENTS IN INDIANA.
            AS the establishment of roads in the beginning was an absolute necessity to the
                    settlement of the country, so the improvement of those roads, regardless of
                    other systems of transportation, was essential to its welfare. We have already
                    noted the difficulties that attended the original opening of the roads and their
                    limited usefulness when opened. The improvements of the earlier day, despite the
                    funds expended upon them and the unpaid labor of practically the whole male
                    population, amounted to but little toward making the highways travelable except
                    at certain seasons, and consisted almost wholly of cleaning the way, scraping up
                    into the middle dirt that became mud when it got wet, and the laying of
                    "corduroy" or supporting poles across the bottomless places.
                    Even at the present day, with the country open, well-drained and comparatively
                    dry, the ordinary dirt road is a vexatious makeshift, and when the forest 
                  
                     † "The Building of the Michigan Road," by Ethel L. Montgomery, is, we believe, the
                            fullest study of this road that has been published. A long treatise by
                            Mr. B. B. Oglesbee, of 
                                Laporte
                            , exists in manuscript form.
               
                     encumbered land was saturated like a sponge
                    for the larger part of the year, its drawbacks were tenfold. The only really
                    serviceable material that was utilized at all was macadam, or broken stone, but
                    the inaccessibility of this, except in a comparatively few localities, made it
                    wholly impracticable over a major part of the State's area, though
                    certain highways included in the internal improvement scheme were to be built of
                    it.
            How seriously road improvement affected public welfare is evidenced by our
                    legislation. From the road law of 1820, which authorized the opening up of an
                    extensive system of thoroughfares, on through the decades, there was scarcely a
                    session but road laws were enacted, adding to, modifying or repealing preceding
                    statutes. It is, perhaps, an added argument against paternalism that no really
                    effective improvement was accomplished until the State's efforts were
                    succeeded by private enterprise. This change was contemporaneous with the
                    introduction of the plank road idea. This innovation appears to have originated
                    in 
                        Russia
                    , to have found its way thence into 
                        Canada
                    , and from there into parts of the 
                        United States
                     lying contiguous to 
                        Canada
                    . In a country where timber was not merely abundant, but an actual
                    encumbrance, the conversion of this timber into a solid road as smooth as a
                    floor was a captivating proposition, and the fever caught and spread. In no
                    place was there better reason for its spreading than in Indiana, and accordingly
                    for nearly ten years (through the fifties) we had the plank road era. The
                    promise of immediate returns was, presumably, sufficient to attract capital, and
                    the State very wisely handed over the new movement to the capitalists. From 1848
                    we find laws authorizing corporations to take possession of the existing roads,
                    to convert them into plank roads, and to erect and maintain tollhouses for
                    revenue along the same. In 1850 one of these companies, organized to build a
                    plank road from 
                        New Harmony
                     to 
                        Mt. Vernon
                    , in 
                        Posey county
                    , sent Robert Dale Owen to western 
                
                    New York
                 to investigate the roads already in operation there, and the result
                    was the publication of a small book containing a mass of information upon the
                        subject.* There were various widths and
                    methods of laying in the construction of 
                  
                     * Owen on "Plank
                            Roads," 
                                New Albany
                            , 1850.
               
                     these roads, but that recommended by Owen
                    was eight feet wide, formed of planks two and a half to four inches thick laid
                    crosswise on long mud-sills, and well spiked down. The cost of this material he
                    estimated at $938.08 to $1,689.60 per mile, according to
                    thickness of planks. The labor item is a party of twelve or fourteen hands with
                    teams for plowing, scraping, rolling, etc., and these should lay from thirty to
                    forty rods per day, at an expense of perhaps $200 per mile. The
                    approximate total cost of a road built of three-inch white oak planks is given
                    as $2,000 per mile.
            While Owen, with the bias of an advocate, perhaps, figures that a white oak road
                    would do good service for at least twelve years, as a matter of fact those
                    constructed in this State would seem to be much shorter of life. Within ten
                    years the decadence had plainly set in, for a law of 1859 prohibits the
                    collection of tolls on roads that are not kept up, and about this time plank
                    road legislation disappears from the statutes. The difficulty was not only
                    decay, but the warping and working loose of the planks.
            In 1858 we find the first statutory mention of gravel roads, and the introduction
                    of this material, presumably about that time, was the beginning of a possible
                    permanent excellence. Why it was not earlier used is not easy to learn, but it
                    is probable that prior to the clearing up of the country, when the drift-choked,
                    forest-environed streams flowed with a fuller volume, gravel bars were at once
                    much less in evidence, and much less accessible than at a later day.
                    Construction with this new material went on under private enterprise, the State
                    became well traversed with toll roads, and the ubiquitous little tollhouse, with
                    its long sweep pole, is still fresh in the memories of most of us.
            The next turn in legislation was a provision (as early as 1879) for the county
                    control of free turnpikes and the authorization of tax levies for that purpose.
                    Under these laws the improved roads have, one by one, been bought up by the
                    several counties, and the abolishment of the tollgate is becoming general.
         
         
         
            NORTHERN INDIANA IN 1829.
             From the Indiana Republican (
                 Madison
             ), January 7, 1829.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        MR. EDITOR: The writer of
                                    this has spent some days of the last month examining the country
                                    on the St. Joseph
                            of Lake Michigan, the 
                            Wabash and 
                            Kankikee. This country, except the 
                            Kankikee, is
                                    embraced in the purchase made this fall from the Pottawatamies.
                         We set out from 
                             Fort Wayne
                         , a northwesterly direction for the St. Joseph
                             of the Lake. The first twenty miles after leaving
                                    the Port, the country is mostly covered with a heavy forest of
                                    timber; but a small portion of the soil is of good quality for
                                    farming. After passing Blue-grass creek, we passed a few miles
                                    of country, the land of an inferior quality, thinly timbered
                                    with oak and hickory, interspersed with a number of small lakes,
                                    from which flows to the southwest the head branch of the
                             Tippecanoe river; we then entered the
                                    Elk-heart bottom; this bottom is about eight miles wide, soil
                                    and timber of the best quality. Elk-heart creek is a fine,
                                    boatable stream, running northwest, and the depth of the water
                                    (above the knees of our horses) affording a sufficiency at the
                                    dryest season for all kinds of machinery. After crossing this
                                    creek we entered the Elk-heart prairie, about six miles long and
                                    from two to four wide, soil of the best quality. Along the
                                    southwest margin of this beautiful prairie flows the Elk-heart
                                    creek, on the north bank of which, and in the prairie, is the
                                    site of Five Medals village, well known to our soldiers of the
                                    late war as the residence of the Pottawatamie war chief, Five
                                    Medals. This creek unites with the 
                             St. Joseph a few miles south of the line dividing Indiana and Michigan
                                    Territory, and near this point is also the entrance
                                    from the north of a large creek, which flows from
                             Pleasant lake in Michigan Territory; at the junction of these waters is a
                                    fine town site, possessing the advantages of being surrounded by
                                    a fine country of good land, and on the bank of the
                             St. Joseph river, which is a deep,
                                    boatable stream, affording plenty of water for keel-boat
                                    navigation from this point to the lake at all seasons of the
                                    year—distance 75 to 100 miles by the river.  Twentsy miles below the
                             mouth of Elk-heart is the southern bend of the 
                             St. Joseph. At this place the American Fur Company have an
                                    establishment to carry on trade with the Indians; it is situated
                                    on a high, dry plain, affording a very handsome and extensive
                                    site for a village; through this place, the road, as lately laid
                                    off from Lake Michigan to 
                             
                                 Indianapolis
                             , passes, affording it the advantage of a road south
                             to the Wabash, as well as the river northwest to the lake, at all
                                    times navigable, with a good harbor for the largest lake
                                    vessels, and a safe bay at its entrance into the lake, and also
                                    a high and beautiful site for a town on the margin of the lake
                                    at the mouth of the river.
                         From the southern bend of the 
                             St. Joseph river
                             we traveled west to Lake Michigan; the country is dry and beautiful until we
                                    arrive within three or four miles of the lake, part rich
                                    barrens, and part first-rate timber land, with a large portion
                                    of prairie. We traveled part of the distance on the United States road, from 
                             
                                 Detroit
                              to 
                                 Chicago
                             , this road which crosses the northern boundary of
                             Indiana, about thirty miles east of 
                             Lake Michigan, and continues parallel with and near the
                             north line of Indiana to the southern point of 
                             Lake Michigan. The tract of land through which this
                                    road passes was purchased from the Indians at the treaty of the Wabash,
                                    called the ten mile purchase, and as embraced
                                    between the north line of Indiana and the 
                             Kankikee river and ponds. This tract of land is perhaps
                                    surpassed by no other for beauty and fertility of soil. There
                                    may be a scarcity of timber after it is settled. It is watered
                                    with some spring rivulets, and has many beautiful lakes from
                                    one-fourth to one and one-half miles in circumference, with dry
                                    banks, sand bottoms, clear, sweet water, that abound with fish
                                    of various kinds.
                         We traveled from Lake Michigan a
                                    southeasterly course, and descended a hill of more than one
                                    hundred feet, and soon found ourselves in the neighborhood of
                                    these celebrated Kankikee ponds. The river of that name rises
                                    near the center of Indiana, from east to west, and flows west
                                    through a low valley, which is from four to eleven miles wide,
                                    and in the spring is covered with water. After the summer season
                                    sets in the quantity of water decreases, but there remains a
                                    marsh or swamp which is said to be sixty miles in length from
                                    east to west, and impossible 
                                    at most places for man or horse to pass; the river crosses the
                                    line dividing Indiana and 
                             
                                 Illinois
                              about thirty-five miles south of 
                             Lake Michigan,
                             and uniting with the river Aux-plaines, from the 
                             Illinois river. The ponds above mentioned extend along the north side of the river beyond the State
                                    line. Most of the land on this river within Indiana is
                                    exceedingly poor. We crossed the Kankikee, which from its
                                    appearance we believed sufficiently large for boats to pass down
                                    it, from a point thirty or forty miles within the State of
                                    Indiana, part of the year. The trace on which we traveled led us
                                    southeast to Yellow river, a large branch
                             of the Kankikee, within the country now owned by the
                                    Pottawatamies, and the whole distance between these rivers we
                                    saw no land suitable for farming, it being mostly wet prairie,
                                    or if timbered, with low black oak, and the soil of the most
                                    inferior quality. After crossing Yellow
                                    river and traveling about four miles, we passed a
                                    beautiful lake, from seven to ten miles in circumference, called
                                    by the Pottawatamie Indians Mix-in-kuk-kee. It is surrounded
                                    with rolling land of good quality and is formed from springs,
                                    and seems to occupy the highest summit between the
                             Tippecanoe and 
                             Kankikee
                                  rivers. From it flows to the south a large creek,
                                    forming one of the principal branches of the former river, and
                                    distant from it about five miles. The lake will probably some
                                    day supply a feeder for a canal to connect the
                             Wabash and Illinois
                                    rivers. From this lake we proceeded a short distance
                                    east and found the line of the Michigan Road, on which we
                                    traveled to the Wabash
                             at the mouth of Eel river.
                                    Most of that country is good and susceptible of making a fine
                                    road. Should the legislature authorize, as they
                                        most likely will, the location of the donation of the
                             Michigan Road in the prairie between the 
                             St. Joseph and 
                             Lake Michigan, and on the
                             line of the United States road from 
                                 Detroit
                              to 
                                 Chicago
                             , it will sell for an immense sum of money, and
                                    within two or three years will form one of the best settlements
                                    in Indiana. The country lately purchased is susceptible of
                                    forming from three to five counties, and in five years after it
                                    is sold by the 
                                        United States
                                    
                             will have sufficient population to send an
                                    additional member to Congress.
                        A TRAVELER.
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            JOHN CONNER.
            
                    BY HIS GRANDDAUGHTER, MRS. SARAH C. CHRISTIAN.
                
            My Grandfather Conner was associated with the earliest Indiana history. While it
                was still a territory he carried the dispatches from Ft. Washington, now 
                
                    Cincinnati
                , to 
                    Ft. Wayne
                , over an Indian trail, and with a Delaware guide. He was a member of the first legislature that met at
                Corydon. He was the founder of 
                
                    Connersville
                    , and was the trusted friend and counselor of the red man.
             When he first located at 
                 Connersville
             , he, with several other men, was building his cabin, which as yet
                    had neither roof nor floor, when an emigrant wagon drew up and stopped, and the
                    new-comer asked to be directed to 
                        Connersville
                    . My Grandfather, standing in the door, laughed heartily and said,
                    "My friend, you are right in the heart of the town."
            Around this cabin was a heavy wall with a gate which fastened on the inside. This
                    was for protection from the Indians. Grandfather had no fear of them, but they
                    hated his white squaw.
            One day when Grandmother and Jim, Grandfather's son by his Delaware squaw wife, who was then dead, were alone, the cabin was attacked
                    by Indians. The gate had been accidentally left open, but they barred the door.
                    Jim, terrified, hid under the bed, saying to Grandmother, "They will
                    kill you, they have come to kill you. They are going to the top of the house and
                    will come down the chimney." She told Jim to tell them that she would
                    put a straw bed in the fireplace, and set fire to the first one who attempted
                    it. Then they cut a large hole in the door and were going to crawl through, but
                    Jim told them that she was standing by the door with the ax raised to chop off
                    the head of the one who tried to come in. Grandfather came while they were
                    there, and they all ran off as fast as they could go.
            One Sunday evening while they were still living there, the chairs and stools of
                    the cabin were all occupied by visiting neighbors when the girl who lived with
                    Grandmother "had a beau." The embarrassed young man slipped
                    back into a corner. There was a large dye kettle filled with blue dye, covered
                    with  a cloth, standing there, and the young
                    man sat down in it, falling in head and heels, in his tow linen suit. The last
                    seen of him he was fleeing from the place like a blue streak in the moonlight.
                    The expression, "went like a blue streak," may have originated
                    in that incident.
             An Indian council was held at 
                 Anderson
              at which Tecumseh was to preside. Grandfather, upon learning that
                    Tecumseh could not be present, disguised himself to represent the great Shawnee
                    and went to the council. The chieftains representing the tribes sat down upon
                    the ground in the form of a crescent, and Grandfather in his disguise of paint,
                    feathers and blanket, took the seat intended for Tecumseh. He filled, lit the
                    pipe and smoked a little. Then passed it to the nearest chief who also smoked,
                    passed it to the next and soon until it had gone round the semi-circle. Good as
                    Grandfather's disguise was, one of the old Indians recognized him. He
                    looked him over from one side, walked around and looked at him from the other,
                    then exclaimed, "You no Tecumseh—you big John
                    Conner." Up to that time not a word had been spoken, but now they all
                    jumped to their feet and whooped and yelled, taking it as a great joke.
            Once, in company with a friend, Grandfather was traveling in the north part of
                    the State. They stopped for the night in an Indian village. During the evening
                    Grandfather, who thoroughly understood the Indians' language and
                    customs, felt that there was something wrong, and after retiring to their tent
                    he told his friend not to go to sleep, for he felt that they were in great
                    danger. His friend only laughed at him and went to sleep, but Grandfather lay
                    awake, apprehensive, and listening intently. About midnight he became conscious
                    that there was some one at his tent. The flap moved, a hand was thrust in and
                    grasped him by the wrist, and some one said, "Conner."
                    Grandfather answered him and he said, "Wake your friend,—
                    you are in great peril. If you are here in the morning, you will be
                    killed." He awoke his friend, and they slipped out of the village, got
                    their horses, which the friendly Indian had concealed some distance away, and
                    left. The Indian who saved their lives was Grandfather's trusted
                    friend, Tecumseh.*
            
            
               
                  * A story curiously like this is told of
                        one "Captain W.," (supposed to be Wilson) by Judge Law in
                        his "Colonial History of 
                   
                       Vincennes
                   " (pp. 99-105).
            
         
         
         
            NEWSPAPER INDEX.
            INDIANA JOURNAL–-FOURTH INSTALMENT.
            
               1838– 
                  Market, ordinance regulating.–-Apr. 14.
                  Temperance Convention.-–June 30.
                  Emigration.-–Sept. 19.
                  Indians of the Wabash.-–Oct. 26.
                  
                      
                          Indianapolis
                       streets; over-setting of stage.-–Nov. 10.
                  Central Canal and Madison R. R.–-Nov. 10.
                  Madison R. R.-–Nov. 17; Nov. 24; opening celebration of.
                            Dec. 9.
                  Christmas and New Year's presents (ad.) First mention of the
                            days.-–Dec. 22.
               
            
            
               1839–-
                  Madison R. R.–-First ad.–-Apr. 20.
                   National Road Convention at 
                       
                           Terre Haute
                       .–-July 16.
                  Canal trip to Broad Ripple.-–Aug. 3.
                  Hoosier, description of.–-Aug 16.
                  "Poetical Portraits" of Western
                            Versifiers.-–Aug. 23.
                  Rattlesnake story.–-Aug. 23.
                  Education, strictures on common (series, begins).–-Aug. 30.
                  Jonathan Cool, death of.–-Aug. 30.
                  Judge William Cotton, death of.–-Sept. 13.
                  Panther and Captain Scott.-–Sept. 20.
                  Public debt and resources of Indiana.-–Sept. 20.
                  Indianapolis Female Institute.–-Oct. 12.
                  Daviess, Joe H., sketch of.–-Oct. 19.
                  Millenium (end of the world).–-Oct. 26.
                  Scrip of the State.–-Oct. 25.
                  Internal Improvment bill.--Oct. 26; Nov. 2.
                  Newspaper cash system.-–Nov. 9.
                  Indians; old Thorntown.-–Nov. 9.
                  
                      Wabash river; navigation, etc.–-Nov. 9.
                  Western emigration.-–Nov. 15.
                  Thanksgiving Proclamation by Gov. Wallace.–Nov. 9; Nov. 13.
                  Wabash Canal.–-Nov. 30.
               
            
            
            
               1840–-
                  Harrison meeting, call of.–-Feb. 1.
                   Historical Society at 
                       Vincennes
                    (ad. for material).–-Feb. 22.
                  "Old Tippecanoe" (campaign story).–-March
                            14.
                   Boys' Seminary at 
                       Indianapolis
                   .--March 28.
                  Cumberland road, speech on.–March 28.
                  "Old Tip" (story).–March 28.
                   County convention, big one at 
                       
                           Greensburg
                       .-–Apr. 4.
                  Female Institute.–-Apr. 11.
                  Battleground convention proposed.–-Apr. 11.
                   Rally at 
                       Connersville
                   .–-Apr. 18.
                  Battleground convention.–-May 2.
                  Meetings in various counties.-–May 2.
                  Cabin and cider fling, origin of.-–May 9.
                  "The Huge Paw" (song, over a sneer at the
                            farmer's "paw.") -–May 16.
                  Several songs.-–May 16.
                  Songs: "When this Old Hat was New," and "Tippecanoe and Tyler, Too."–-May 23.
                  Battleground convention (long account of).-–June 6; also
                            June 13.
                   The "War in 
                       Greenfield
                   . "–-June 20.
                  Telling Chapman to "crow."-–June 27.
                   Rising Sun, population of.-–Sept. 5.
                   Big campaign meeting at 
                       Indianapolis
                   .-–Ad. of, Sept. 26; order of procession, Oct. 3;
                            account of, 10; "O. K.," expression
                            used.-–Nov. 14.
                  W. W. Wick, poem on.–-Dec. 5.
                  (Notable absence of business advertisements this year.)
               
            
            
               1841–-
                  Central canal; communications on.-–June 26; Aug. 6.
                  Hoosier story (specimen of vernacular).-–Aug. 6.
                  Richardville (Indian); death and wealth of.–-Aug. 27.
                  
                      
                          Indianapolis
                       band.–-Sept. 3.
                  Jacob Cox (artist).–-Sept. 10.
                  Shower of "flesh and blood."–-Sept. 17.
                  Nativity of legislators, session of 1841.–-Dec. 22.
                  John B. Dillon, lecture by.-–Dec. 22.
                  Imprisonment for debt; law repealed.–-Dec. 22.
               
            
         
         
         
            EDITORIAL AND MISCELLANEOUS.
            ACTION OP THE INDIANA HISTORICAL SOCIETY—LOCAL
                    SOCIETIES.
            In our last issue we presented a brief sketch of the Indiana Historical Society
                    and discussed the question of an added field of work for it, suggesting that it
                    should take the initiative toward establishing some relation between itself and
                    the various organizations of a historical character, particularly the local
                    societies. It was further suggested that one way of creating this relation might
                    be by inviting the societies in question to send in reports, transmit copies of
                    programs, etc., which the State Society, acting as a sort of bureau of
                    information, would publish in an annual bulletin, furnishing the same to all the
                    societies and thus stimulating all by a common interest.
            This question, in substantially the same form as we outlined it, was brought
                    before the State Society, and it was duly considered. It was thought that this
                    magazine, occupying the field it does, would be a logical substitute for the
                    proposed bulletin, and, in endorsement of the revised plan, it was, at a special
                    meeting held April 26,
            
               'Resolved, That for the purpose of announcements,
                    reports of meetings and similar matters of public interest, the Indiana
                    Quarterly Magazine of History be recognized as the official organ of the Indiana
                    Historical Society; and further,
            
               "Resolved, That all the local historical societies of
                    the State be requested to send announcements and reports of proceedings to the
                    said Indiana Quarterly Magazine of History, to the end that a speedy and
                    convenient interchange of information be established among those interested in
                    historical matters."
            While this particular plan for promoting the work was not sought by us, we will
                    say that we will be very glad to make the magazine an organ as proposed if the
                    societies themselves will evince a desire to cooperate. The interest in the
                    matter proposed will be confined almost exclusively to the societies, and the
                         presumption is that any organization
                    that transmits its reports to be published along with those of other societies
                    will wish to preserve the same in its archives.
            We heartily invite all historical organizations in the State to send through
                    their secretaries brief reports of the meetings and of their work, past and
                    present.
            LOCAL SOCIETY WORK—COOPERATION AND TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE
                    NEEDED.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Editor Indiana Magazine of History.
                                
                        DEAR SIR: In your last
                                    issue you invite opinions as to the aid the State Historical
                                    Society might render the local ones. I think that perhaps the
                                    most effective thing might be the establishment of a system of
                                    mutual interchange, not only of papers, addresses, documents and
                                    articles of interest and value; but also of speakers and
                                    specialists in the various branches of local history and
                                    historical research. It seems to me that an esprit
                                        de corps might be incited by such a movement that would
                                    be of great value to the progress and efficiency of the work of
                                    the various societies. In 
                                        Henry county
                                     there seems to be now, after more than twenty years
                                    of persistent effort on the part of the local society, a fairly
                                    good and liberal interest in the work manifested by intelligent
                                    and educated people of all callings and professions. What we
                                    need most is a class of willing workers who are thoroughly
                                    informed as to the best methods of collecting, arranging and
                                    presenting local historical and illustrative matter, in such
                                    manner as to make it most readily available to the student, the
                                    investigator or the citizen who may require such information at
                                    once to meet some urgent necessity. The willing workers we have,
                                    but we need the technical training, and I am sure that it is the
                                    most urgent need of our county and district societies. If the
                                    State might be induced to appropriate a small sum of money to
                                    procure the services of some qualified person to visit the
                                    various societies and give practical instructions on the
                                    subjects above indicated, it would greatly promote the present
                                    and future usefulness of their work, and make it much more
                                    interesting and far easier of execution. It is along such lines
                                    as I have suggested that cooperation might, as I think, be most
                                    helpful.
                        BENJ. S. PARKER
                        
                        
                                    
                                        
                                            New Castle
                                        , Ind.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
            LOCAL HISTORY IN THE SCHOOLS—L. A.
                    M'KNIGHT'S WORK.
             Mr. L. A. McKnight, the superintendent of 
                 Benton county
             , Indiana, is working out in his schools an experiment in local
                    history study which should be of interest to teachers and superintendents
                    generally and to the friends of such study in particular. He has printed a
                    little twelve-page pamphlet which he calls "Outline for the Study and
                    Compilation of Local History, for the Use of Teachers, Pupils, Clubs and
                    Students in History," and this presents a somewhat elaborate scheme by
                    which this subject can be studied with interest and profit, as it seems to us,
                    in any school or grade.
            The plan contemplates, first of all, the selection by a school of a unit of
                    study, and this unit "may be a county, civil or congressional township,
                    town, school district, or any well-defined part of a county or
                    township." The unit chosen, the historic elements to be dealt with are
                    grouped as follows:
            1. The Indians. 2. Favorable Conditions which Led to Settlement. 3. Settlement
                    and Settlers. 4. Draw Map of Unit of Study. 5. Home Life. 6. Governing Life. 7.
                    Industrial Life. 8. Social Life. 9. Religious Life. 10. Educational Life. 11.
                    "For God and Home and Native Land," this last dealing with
                    matters patriotic.
            Under these various heads are worked out specific lines of investigation which
                    may be flexibly adapted to the ages and capacities of the pupils. An examination
                    of the plan in its details suggests a possibility of valuable training in
                    various directions—in composition, in investigation and research, and
                    in the development of a history interest quickened into a lively sense of the
                    nearness and meaning of history. To satisfy ourselves on this point we wrote to
                    Mr. McKnight requesting a statement as to the practical results of his work. The
                    following letter from him answers the question:
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Editor Indiana Magazine of History.
                                
                        DEAR SIR: The results
                                    obtained from the use of my local history outlines have
                                    surpassed my expectations. The indications now are that I will
                                    receive fully 3000 pages of neatly written manuscripts from
                                    pupils in different parts of the county. When you remember that
                                    this work is purely voluntary, you may be able
                                    to conceive the interest that has been taken in it by  many pupils. It has also awakened
                                    many parents to a realization of the worthy work of
                                    investigating the history of their respective communities. The
                                    pupils follow up the work systematically, interviewing every one
                                    from whom they think they can obtain information, and
                                    classifying their information under the topical heads given in
                                    the outline. Complete and connected accounts of the history of
                                    many localities have been received. In some instances the pupils
                                    have entered into interesting correspondence with the pioneers
                                    who have become citizens of other States. Teachers say that the
                                    preparation of the manuscripts has awakened an interest in the
                                    use of good language that did not formerly exist among their
                                    pupils. It has shown them the need of the ability to compose and
                                    write well.
                        Among the people the work is the talk of the county. The outlines
                                    were sent out about the last of November, 1906, but many of the
                                    pupils did not take up the work until after the holidays. A few
                                    general expressions received are as follow: "My boy was
                                    never interested in any kind of history until he took up your
                                    outline. It is now his favorite study." "My
                                    daughter will hardly go to bed of nights since she has begun her
                                    local history work. She wants to be interviewing some one about
                                    something all of the time." "I think this is
                                    the grandest work ever undertaken by our children. What made you
                                    think of it?" "Your outline has given grandpa
                                    a renewal of his youth. Every night he has from two to three
                                    callers and likes to have the young people come. One boy has
                                    come three times and is getting to be a fine reporter."
                                    "The boys of our town are delighted. You have shown
                                    them that they can be both makers and writers of
                                    history." "Our children want to know if you
                                    will not write a history of the 
                                        United States
                                     from your outline. They think that kind of a
                                    history would be much better than the one they study."
                                    The ablest minister in the county writes: "I want to
                                    thank you for awakening in me a sense of duty toward the
                                    founders of my congregation's church." One
                                    township called all of the schools together and had a historic
                                    day at which the papers prepared by the pupils were read.
                                    Isn't this the first day of the kind ever had in
                                    Indiana? I send you press notices. There are other evidences of
                                    the interest awakened by this work that are too numerous to
                                    mention.
                        Yours very respectfully L. A. MCKNIGHT.
                        
                            Fowler, May 2, 1907.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
             The lengthy notices in the Fowler papers sent by Mr. Mc-Knight confirm his
                    statement as to the lively interest shown in the community. It should be added
                    that two songs by the superintendent, dedicated to 
                 
                     Benton county
                 , have been taken up with enthusiasm, the demand for copies
                    exceeding the printed supply.
            If any similar work is being done elsewhere in the State we would be glad to have
                    a report of it.
            LOCAL HISTORY CONTRIBUTIONS.
            
               The Word Hoosier.—The latest publication of the
                    Indiana Historical Society is a monograph on "The Word
                    Hoosier," by Jacob Piatt Dunn, which is an unusually interesting and
                    valuable contribution to historical and philological literature. This paper,
                    originally published in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News, and reproduced in part in this magazine (see Vol. I, p.
                    86) here finds permanent lodgment in revised form. With the thoroughness that
                    distinguishes him, Mr. Dunn seems to have fairly exhausted his subject, and his
                    treatment of it is not only the first one worthy of mention but his conclusion
                    will probably be the final one. The half-dozen or so stories that have long been
                    current concerning the origin of the word "Hoosier" are, even
                    in lieu of anything better, too crude for credence, and Mr. Dunn's
                    study practically proves that it is not a chance word at all, but one with
                    antecedents that, probably, reach far back in the English language; which was
                    long used in the South to denote certain uncouth characteristics, and which was
                    imported hither as descriptive of an element of our early population.
            An appropriate companion sketch to the above is one of John Finley, included in
                    the same pamphlet, by Mr. Finley's daughter. Mrs. Sarah A. Wrigley.
                    Finley, for many years a prominent citizen of 
                        Richmond
                    , Ind., introduced "Hoosier" into literature by
                    his famous poem, "The Hoosier's Nest," first
                    published in 1833. He was one of the most notable of early Indiana poets.
            We venture to call attention to the abominable paper on which this pamphlet is
                    printed. The printers of it have not even duplicated previous pamphlets, but
                    have used the cheapest wood-pulp stock. The printing of matter of this sort on
                    paper that will fall to pieces inside of a generation seems to us a grave
                    mistake, to say the least.
            
            
                Concerning Indians.—In the 
                    Indianapolis
                
                Sunday Star for April 7 and April 28 and in the 
                    Indianapolis
                
                    News for April 25 is published an interesting and spirited
                    ethnological discussion touching the Indians of the central west. The Star articles, written as editorials by Mr. J. P. Dunn,
                    criticise the handbook of American Indians, recently issued by the Bureau of
                    American Ethnology, and Mr. James Mooney, for the Bureau, replies. The argument,
                    specifically, hinges upon the origin and meaning of certain Indian words, and,
                    incidentally, upon the publications of the Bureau as relating to the aborigines
                    above mentioned. One interested in such questions will find these articles well
                    worth securing and keeping.
            
               John Flinn's Story.—The following account
                    of John Flinn's captivity among the Indians was secured from
                    Flinn's son by Mr. M. G. Mock, of 
                        Muncie
                    . It was sent to this magazine through the courtesy of Mr. Arthur W.
                Osborne, of Spiceland, Ind. Further matter touching this "Oldtown Hill"
                    of the Dela-wares may be found in this magazine, Vol. I, p. 176.
            "John Flinn was born in 
                Green Brier
                county, 
                    Virginia
                , about 1780, and when five years old he, with his
                    mother and sister, were captured by a band of Indians, whose tribe was located
                    at Old-town Hill (in 
                        Delaware county
                    , near 
                        Muncie
                    ), where he was taken with his sister. His mother was slain. Flinn
                    and his sister remained together for some years, when the French bought her of
                    the Indians and gave her her freedom. She married a Mr. Bateral and once lived
                    near 
                        New Castle
                    , Ind.
            "John Flinn remained with the Indians at Oldtown
                    Hill until he was twenty-five, when he decided he would return to his
                    people, who had moved near 
                        Springfield
                    , 
                        O.
                     Having remained with his people a year or so he
                    returned to his tribe at Oldtown Hill. A young man having
                    become a very warm friend of Flinn's, and being of a wild nature, went
                    with him and expected to live there awhile with the Indians. But only a few
                    months had passed when hostilities broke out between the whites and Indians, and
                    councils of war were being held, and warriors were preparing for war.
            "At a general council of the chiefs and warriors, Flinn and his friend
                    being present, the question arose as to whether Flinn and his pale-faced friend
                    had come to them as friends or spies.
            
            "It was soon decided by the council that they had come as spies, and
                    Flinn, knowing the fate of a spy, made a break for his life, followed by his
                    friend.
             "Following the west bank of White river, they had
                    gone but a short distance, followed closely by the Indians, when they came to
                    where crossed logs lay in the path.
            "Flinn was able to scale them, but his friend failed to make the leap,
                    fell back and was captured by his pursuers.
            "The capture of his companion stopped the pursuit of Flinn and he made
                good his escape, and again returned to his people in 
                    Ohio
                , where he was married. He was afterward employed by the Governor
                    and went as a scout and spy. Flinn's friend who was captured was burned
                    at the stake, the spot still being marked by a stone which was placed where the
                    stake stood when the early settlers came to 
                        Delaware county
                    
                .
             "The stake was taken up, split in pieces, some going to 
                 Washington
             , some to 
                 Philadelphia
             , and a piece was for a long time kept in the court-house of this
                 county (
                     Delaware
                 )."
            
                Education in 
                    Benton county
                .—A noteworthy contribution to
                Indiana's educational history is "Progress of Education in 
                    Benton county
                ," a volume of 231 pages, by L. A. McKnight, the school
                superintendent of 
                    Benton county
                .' This circumstantial study confined to one county has its
                    particular value and might creditably be followed by the school authorities in
                    other counties, paving the way to a fuller general history than has heretofore
                    been possible. The idea of such a work in 
                        Benton county
                    , we are told, was originally suggested by trustee John V. Bartoo,
                    of Gilboa township, the County Board of Education thought well of it, and
                    Superintendent McKnight was instructed to prepare a tentative outline,
                    comprising information that in his judgment would be of popular interest and
                    value. The result was this book, and the good judgment of its author and
                    promoters has been proven by the fact that the demand for the work has far
                    exceeded the edition of 2550 that was issued.
            
               "Some Recollections of My
                    Boyhood."'—A little book privately printed,
                contains reminiscences of 
                    Wayne county
                 seventy-five years ago. The writer, Mr. Branson L. Harris,
                    undertook his modest work at the request of his sons for the dual purpose of  preserving to them these recollections and
                    pleasantly filling in his declining days, and in so occupying himself he was,
                    doubtless, wholly unconscious that he was investing his simple theme with a
                    charm which might serve as a model of style in the schoolroom. Through this
                    style, which is almost childlike in its simplicity, we not only get graphic and
                    entertaining pictures of a life now obsolete, but with equal clearness there
                    stands out the picture of a plain, childlike, righteous-minded man—a
                    fine specimen of the Quaker stock that helped people our State. To our mind this little book is
                    somewhat remarkable, and it is to be regretted that it will not have a wider
                    circulation. Among the reminiscences are a number that, from their detailed
                    description, are a real contribution to our reminiscent literature.
            
               
                   
                       Logansport
                    History.—The 
                       
                           Logansport
                        Journal has been publishing, recently, many articles
                relating to the events, personages and landmarks of 
                    Logansport
                . The author of these is Mr. W. S. Wright, who, being a native of 
                
                    Logansport
                 and of a historical turn, is well qualified to work what is one of
                    the richest fields, historically, in northern Indiana. Mr. Wright was active in
                    organizing the 
                        Cass County
                     Historical Society, and he aptly argues that said society would do
                    well to secure for itself, as an appropriate home, the old Biddle house, and
                    there collect and preserve material that is lying at hand, and which will be
                    scattered and wasted some time if the indifference of the past is not mended.
                    The most notable private collection now in 
                        Logansport
                     is that of C. B. Lasselle, which lies buried in dust in a room of
                    the court-house. Whether this mass of material will be well and intelligently
                    disposed of when Mr. Lasselle dies remains to be seen. If we are informed aright
                    the opinion got abroad in 
                        Logansport
                     a year or so ago that the Indiana State Library wished to
                    "hog" the Lasselle collection, and that opinion seemed to
                    awaken some hostility. We speak with authority when we say that the chief
                    thought at the State Library was that the result of long years of labor should
                    somewhere be preserved intact and not be dissipated and wasted. Since the
                    Library can not have that privilege, it is sincerely to be hoped that the
                    historical society at 
                        Logansport
                     will see to it. The danger with most collections of this sort is
                    that ultimately the more obviously  valuable
                    thing's will be appropriated by individuals, and that the things of
                    less obvious value that are buried away in a mass of seeming rubbish will be
                    deliberately carted off to the paper mill, as has been done time and again all
                    over this State. So far as the real and larger value is concerned, things might
                    almost as well go to the junk dealer as to the den of the private collector who
                    hoards them up and hides them away in pure selfishness. More than seven years
                    ago the present writer visited Mr. Lasselle and spent two or three days with him
                    in his room looking in a cursory way over his papers. The impression then
                    received was that much there that was of value to one historically interested
                    would have no apparent value to one who lacked expert knowledge in this line. As
                    we remember it, to go over the collection properly would take days, and the
                    question naturally arises as to whether any one will have the time, patience and
                    zeal to sort out the matter of value that may and probably does exist there.
            LOCAL HISTORICAL SOCIETIES.
            The following is the list of subjects presented by the 
                Monroe County
                     Historical Society during the past year:
            The University in the Later Fifties, by Hon. John C. Robinson; The Preservation
                of Local Historical Material, James A. Woodburn; The Old 
                    Monroe County
                 Female Seminary, Amzi Atwater; The Monon Railroad, Carter Perring;
                    The Beginning of the City Hospital, Mrs. Maude Showers; The Indianapolis Southern Railroad, Ira C. Batman; The History of Organized
                    Charities in 
                        Bloomington
                    , Mrs. Minnie B. Waldron; Company K, 14th Regiment Indiana
                Volunteers, Miss Mary Kelly; History of 
                    Bloomington
                 Methodist Church, Mrs. Lena M. Beck; 
                    Monroe County
                 Stone Quarries, W. B. Seward.
             The May meeting of the 
                 Henry county
              society offered a program of eleven numbers, consisting of music,
                    papers and other features, not forgetting a good, old-fashioned basket-picnic
                    dinner between sessions. Among the numbers we find a "Symposium on
                    Local History," ten-minute discussions; "Local Work in the
                    Public Schools," by Supt. J. G. Wier; "The Irish in 
                        Henry County
                    ," by Miss Kate Finley; "The Possibilities of the
                    County Historical Society," by Judge John M. Morris, and "The
                    Importance of Local History," by Adolph Rogers.
            
            LETTER ABOUT THE CONVENTION OF 1816.
             A correspondent in the 
                 Vincennes
             
                    Western Sun for June 22, 1816, writes:
            
                    
                  
                     
                        "The convention has determined by a majority of 33 to 8,
                                    to launch our political vessel of state, and, I am afraid,
                                    without having a sufficient number of skilful navigators on
                                    board, at least to manage the vessel in case of a
                                    storm—but with such an overwhelming majority in favor
                                    of State government, the people must take it as a man takes his
                                    wife, 'for better, for worse,' &c,
                                    with but this exception, a divorce can not be obtained.
                        "Great variety of opinions appears to exist among the
                                    members as to some of the most important points or features in a
                                    constitution—what its general complexion eventually
                                    may be, it is at this time impossible to tell—but
                                    from the conflict of opinions, a model of perfection can not be
                                    expected."
                     
                  
               
                
            COLD SUMMER OF 1816.
            According to an anonymous writer, the year 1816 was phenomenally cold.
                    "In many places," he says, "the trees and shrubs
                    budded, but the frost soon nipped the buds and they dropped to the ground. June
                    was no better. The thermometer registered as low as thirty all through that rosy
                    month. One day in June snow fell to a depth of ten inches in 
                        Vermont
                    , and nearly as deep in other New England States. Ice formed in the streams and ponds. Frost and ice
                    prevailed all through July, and August was, if possible, more cheerless than
                    months already passed." The last month of summer, it is said, was
                    ushered in bright and warm, but this was of short duration. On the 16th ice
                    formed a quarter of an inch thick. There was deep snow throughout November, but
                    December, strange to say, was the pleasantest month of the year. Corn raised in
                    1815 had to be used for seed in the spring of 1817, and was difficult to get,
                    even at $5 a bushel.
         
      
   
