
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 084, Issue 2, pages 117-215. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:084+issue:2+year:1988&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            John Watson Foster: "A Pacifist after a Fashion"
            
                    Jack L. Hammersmith*
                
            To the irrepressible Theodore Roosevelt he was one of the "preposterous apostles of
                        peace."1 To a prominent member of the early twentieth century peace
                    movement, he seemed "the foremost man in America, if not in the world, on matters relating
                    to international arbitration."2 Yet Indiana's John Watson
                    Foster, secretary of state under Benjamin Harrison, was hardly as pure a pacifist as either
                    characterization suggested.3 An active member of the Carnegie Endowment for
                    International Peace, the National Arbitration Committee, and a variety of other national and
                    international peace groups, Foster willingly joined and frequently led in the effort at substituting
                    reason for force and mediation for war. Outspokenly critical of the historic failures of American
                    diplomacy that had led to war, Foster nonetheless remained an enthusiastic expansionist and firm
                    nationalist who failed, at times, to perceive the conflict between the course of American empire and
                    the causes of world discord. In short, he embodied in his life and writings much of the tension and
                    many of the contradictions of the American peace movement in the nineteenth and early twentieth
                    centuries.
            Like many American leaders of his day Foster was, in fact, helped along the road to prominence not
                    only by hard work and ability but by active involvement in the Civil War. It was an irony that
                    Foster himself could scarcely fail to recognize. In his War Stories
                    
                  
                     * Jack L. Hammersmith is associate professor of history,
                            West 
                                Virginia
                             University, Morgantown.
                  
                     1 Theodore Roosevelt to George Otto Trevelyan, August 18, 1906, in The Letters of Theodore Roosevelt, ed. Elting E. Morrison (8 vols, 
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1951-1954), V, 366.
                  
                     2
                            Report of the Eighth Annual Meeting of the Lake Mohonk Conference on
                                International Arbitration, 1902 (Lake Mohonk, N.Y., 1902), 5-6.
                  
                     3 For a review of Foster's military and political life, see
                            Daniel W. Snepp, "John Watson Foster, Soldier and Politician," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXII (September, 1936), 207-25.
               
                    
                    for My Grandchildren, Foster, who attained the rank of colonel during his years in
                    a regiment of Indiana volunteers, candidly acknowledged that he had developed "a taste for
                    or a satisfaction with the service."4 Despite his view of war as
                    "the most terrible and futile of human follies,"5 a perception
                    which apparently dated from his college days at Indiana University, Foster was tempted to remain in
                    the army where the rigors of active campaigning had seemingly strengthened his previously uncertain
                    health. Nor was he oblivious to the excitement of battle. In his account of the bloody struggle at 
                        Shiloh
                    , he recalled a number of actions as "grand beyond description." Of
                    war itself, he readily admitted "a certain glamour."6
            
            Still, unlike a generation of his contemporaries who came to romanticize their wartime experiences
                    and relish the manliness war supposedly ensured, Foster's occasional flirtation with the
                    glories of the battlefield seemed to lessen rather than intensify with the passing of time. In fact,
                    when his memories of that campaign were published more than half a century later, he claimed that
                    his soldierly experience had "strengthened and confirmed" his opposition to war:
                    "I witnessed the sad effects of the conflict in dividing and embittering brothers of the
                    same blood, the ravages of the battlefield and the hospital, the valuable lives lost and the widows
                    and orphans, the enormous expenditure of money, and the great war debt to be paid by a coming
                        generation."7
            
            Whatever his reasons for seeking a career outside the military, where, after all, he had made only a
                    modest—if respectable—record for himself, Foster's instincts were
                    sound. Prominence and affluence were hardly to be found in the diminishing fortunes of the postwar
                    American army. Far more inviting were the enticements of an opportunistic business world, the
                    excitement of Gilded Age politics, and the adventures of expansionist diplomacy.
            After the war Foster gravitated into journalism as editor of the 
                        Evansville
                    
                    Daily Journal, following a brief and unhappy few months in a family grocery
                    concern. By 1869, after three years as editor, he became postmaster of 
                        Evansville
                     and chairman of the Republican State Central Committee of Indiana. For keeping the
                    Hoosier state in the Republican column for Ulysses S. Grant in 1872, Foster received a diplomatic
                    appointment as minister to Mexico the next year. Following seven years at that post, he served as
                    minister to Russia and 
                        Spain
                    . When he returned to the 
                        United States
                     in 1884, it was in 
                        Washington
                    , D. C., not 
                        Evansville
                     or 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 
                  
                     4John W. Foster, War Stories for My Grandchildren (
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1918), 177.
                  
                     5
                     Ibid., 2.
                  
                     6
                     Ibid., 177-78.
                  
                     7
                     Ibid., 178.
               
                     that he settled. Given the political and diplomatic contacts he
                    had made over the previous decade, he deemed it sensible to establish a law practice specializing in
                    international law.8
            
            It is difficult to follow the development of Foster's pacifistic inclinations in these
                    years. Indeed, there are problems knowing quite what Foster was about in general. His published
                    works of a later date largely focus on American diplomacy; his personal memoirs hurry over these
                    years; and upon the completion of his two volumes of Diplomatic Memoirs, he would
                    destroy all but a few dozen of his personal papers, making it necessary to piece together his
                    thoughts from correspondence to friends and associates and to infer interests and even motives from
                    his actions.
            More certain are Foster's varied assignments during the administration of his fellow
                    Hoosier, Benjamin Harrison. A supporter of the reciprocity provisions of the McKinley Tariff, Foster
                    spent considerable time negotiating agreements with 
                  Brazil,
                            Austria-Hungary, Germany
               , and, through Spanish officials, with 
                        Cuba
                     and 
                        Puerto Rico
                    .9 As the Harrison years proceeded, Foster also became involved in a
                    number of issues, particularly those concerning Canadian-American relations. When Secretary of State
                    James G. Blaine's frail health began to deteriorate, Foster played an increasingly critical
                    role in the intensifying diplomatic crisis between the American government and 
                        Chile
                     during the fall of 1891, when several minor espisodes brought the two nations to the
                    brink of war. Ironically, in light of his later prominence in the peace movement, Foster encouraged
                    Harrison to assume a belligerent posture in the Chilean controversy. At the same time that he urged
                    the president toward greater militancy, however, he was serving as legal counsel for the Chilean
                    president who had been ousted by the revolutionaries in control of that nation.10 It would be neither the first nor the last occasion when Foster's private law
                    practice would make him less than a disinterested adviser to the 
                        United States
                     government.
            The issue with which Foster was most clearly identified in the public mind was, however, none of
                    these. Instead, it was the Bering Sea fur seal arbitration case which consumed most of
                    Foster's attention and energies in the final year of the Harrison administration. Perhaps
                    Harrison was encouraged by the success that the 
                        United States
                     and Great Britain had enjoyed twenty years earlier in settling several difficult issues
                    through arbitral commissions set 
                  
                     8 Michael J. Devine, John Watson Foster: Politics and
                                Diplomacy in the Imperial Era, 1873-1917 (
                        Athens, Ohio
                     , 1981),
                            34-35.
                  
                     9 William R. Castle, Jr., "John Watson Foster," in
                                The American Secretaries of State and Their Diplomacy, ed. Samuel
                            Flagg Bemis (10 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1928), VIII, 191.
                  
                     10 Devine, John Watson Foster, 41-48.
               
                    
                    
                  CABINET OF PRESIDENT BENJAMIN HARRISON.
                  REAR, LEFT TO RIGHT, JOHN W. NOBLE, JOHN WANAMAKER, B. F. TRACY, J. M. RUSH; FRONT, LEFT TO RIGHT, S. B. ELKINS, JOHN WATSON FOSTER, BENJAMIN HARRISON, CHARLES FOSTER, W. H. H. MILLER.
                  Courtesy of the President Benjamin Harrison Memorial Home, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                     up by the Treaty of 
                        Washington
                     (1871). At any rate, the president agreed to submit the Bering Sea case to
                    international arbitration in 1892.11 Based upon American efforts to prohibit
                    other nations, especially Great Britain, from killing fur seals in the waters surrounding the
                    American-owned Pribiloff Islands, the submission of the case was controversial in the 
                        United States
                     from the very start. It became even more so when in August, 1893, the seven-man
                    arbitration tribunal in 
                        Paris
                     handed the British government an overwhelming victory over the United State.12 In his memoirs Foster claimed to have been undaunted by the unhappy outcome.
                    Despite the investment of eighteen months "of very arduous labors," several of
                    which coincided with his brief tenure as secretary of state, Foster chose to profess his preference
                    for submitting the case "to the arbitrament of an impartial tribunal than risk the horrors
                    of a war between the two kindred peoples."13
            
            If the unhappy outcome of the sealing case lessened Foster's reputation for effectiveness,
                    his role in helping to end the Sino-Japanese War in 1895 restored his standing to a considerable
                    degree. In the view of his most recent biographer, it was Foster's "single most
                    important diplomatic adventure."14 If Foster's Memoirs are accurate, and it is difficult to uncover alternate sources, his influence
                    during his six-month assignment for the Chinese government helped moderate many of the initial
                    demands 
                        Japan
                     had made on the Chinese.15
            
            Feted by American merchants in Tokyo at the end of his peace mission and apparently retaining the
                    goodwill of the Japanese government despite his service to Peking,16 Foster can
                    hardly have emerged from the experience without a heightened sense of satisfaction in peacemaking
                    activities. The ample monetary rewards 
                  
                     11 According to Calvin D. Davis, "No other arbitration has so
                            stimulated imaginations." Davis, "Arbitration, Mediation, and
                            Conciliation," in Encyclopedia of American Foreign Policy, ed.
                                Alexander DeConde (3 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1978), I, 35.
                  
                     12 Foster himself would write of the results, "the impression
                            seems to prevail with many of our people that this arbitration was unwisely entered upon ...
                            fruitless in its results to us ... and that the responsibility for the failure is chargeable
                            to the administration which agreed to it." See Foster, "Results of the
                            Bering Sea Arbitration," North American Review, CLXI (December,
                            1895), 693.
                  
                     13 Foster, Diplomatic Memoirs (2 vols., 
                                Boston
                            , 1901), II, 50.
                  
                     14 Devine, John Watson Foster, 74.
                  
                     15 For Foster's account see Diplomatic
                            Memoirs, II, 102-65; see also Devine. John Watson Foster, 74-85; and
                            Jeffery M. Dorwart, The Pigtail War: American Involvement in the Sino-Japanese War of
                            1894-1895 (Amherst, Mass., 1975). Curiouely, however, despite the prominent role attributed
                            to Foster by American sources, there is not even a mention of his involvement by such
                            Japanese works as Mutsu Munemitsu, Kenkenroku, ed. and trans. Gordon Mark
                            Berger (Tokyo, 1982). See also Morinosuke Kajima, The Diplomacy of 
                                    Japan
                                , 1894-1922: Sino-Japanese War and Triple
                            Intervention (Tokyo, 1976).
                  
                     16 As soon as Foster accepted the offer of the Chinese government, he
                            apprised the Japanese Embassy in 
                                Washington
                             of his proposed mission. Far from objecting, the Japanese approved. See Castle,
                            "John Watson Foster," 221.
               
                     certainly did nothing to diminish his euphoria.17 As a peacemaker, or at least as a knowledgeable adviser to the Chinese delegation
                    during the peacemaking process, he had emerged into the public eye in 1895 as successful in this
                    endeavor as he had been tarnished four years earlier when his role in the fur seal arbitration had
                    brought little but public criticism and disappointment.
            Once home from his extended sojourn in East Asia, Foster resumed his busy law practice, relieving his
                    son-in-law, Robert Lansing, of the need to look after his affairs.18 While his
                    well-publicized role in the Shimonoseki negotiations and his continued intimacy with the State
                    Department must have enhanced his attractiveness as an attorney, he appeared only occasionally in
                    the public eye. Always the exuberant advocate of Hawaiian annexation, he was active when the
                    McKinley administration finally gained possession of those islands in 1898.19 In
                    contrast to this positive role, however, Foster would take no prominent position regarding the
                    origins of the war with 
                        Spain
                     or the disposition of the Philippines once the war was concluded.
            What is clear in the closing years of the nineteenth century and the opening years of the twentieth
                    is that Foster continued to busy himself with an increasing number of organizations and activities
                    aimed at enhancing world peace. At the same time he began appearing in the public print with some
                    frequency, combining the serious writing of pioneering textbooks and memoirs with polemical efforts,
                    particularly in popular magazines, which focused on his peace objectives. It was during these years
                    that he would become most identified in the public mind with the American peace movement.20 Even as his rhetoric became more emotional, however, he retained reservations
                    about adopting too dogmatic a peace stance.
            Of his activity in peace-related organizations, there can be no doubt. Four times, in 1902, 1903,
                    1906, and 1908, he served as 
                  
                     17 According to Foster, the Chinese asked him to name his own price.
                            See Foster to Robert Lansing, December 23, 1894, Box 116, Lester Woolsey Papers (Manuscript
                            Division, Library of Congress, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C.). "I think it is an opportunity I ought not to miss, as it may
                            open up a wide field for usefulness," he told his son-in-law. The ambiguity of
                            Foster's statement notwithstanding, there seems little doubt, given his penchant
                            for money making, that he had his business prospects firmly in mind. Throughout his life he
                            remained close to the Chinese government both before and after the Republican Revolution of
                            1911. A year before Foster's death, 
                                China
                             honored him with the Order of the Golden Grain for his more than thirty years
                            of service as a legal adviser. See 
                                New York
                            
                            Times, March 4, 1916.
                  
                     18 Foster to Robert W. Lansing, December 23, 1894, Box 116, Woolsey
                            Papers.
                  
                     19 Michael J. Devine, "John Watson Foster and the Struggle
                            for the Annexation of 
                                Hawaii
                            ," Pacific Historical Review, XLVI:1 (1977), 29-50.
                            According to Thomas J. Osborne, Foster clearly had a hand in drafting both the 1893 and 1897
                            versions of the annexation treaties. Osborne, "Empire Can
                                Wait": American Opposition to Hawaiian Annexation, 1893-1898
                                    (
                        Kent, Ohio
                     , 1981), 1-2, 10-11, 106.
                  
                     20 Between August, 1898, and February, 1899, Foster served on the
                            ten-man Joint High Commission, an Anglo-American effort to resolve numerous disputes
                            troubling 
                                United States
                             relations with 
                                Canada
                             and Great Britain. Ironically, given
               
                     president of the Lake Mohonk Arbitration Conference, an annual
                    series of discussions begun in 1895 by Alfred and Albert Smiley at their resort in upstate 
                        New York
                    . These conferences, writes C. Roland Marchand, featured "the first publicly
                    organized elite groups in the 
                        United States
                     for the regular dissemination of information about broad issues of foreign affairs
                        ...."21
            
            An analysis of Foster's four presidential addresses reveals the outlines and ambiguities of
                    his thought in the early twentieth century. Reviewing world events as they related to arbitration
                    during 1901, the ex-secretary of state concluded his first such speech on an upbeat note, saying
                    "a notable advance has been made on this side of the globe since you last met."22 This optimistic strain was again in evidence the following year as he lauded
                    decisions by the 
                        United States
                     and Mexico and by 
                        Chile
                     and 
                        Argentina
                     to submit bilateral disputes to arbitration. Pointing to the prominence of Latin
                    American nations, he asked, "May we not learn from this to be a little more charitable in
                    our criticism of the countries to the south of us in their struggles to free themselves from the
                    customs which enchained them during so many centuries of misrule?"23
            
            The darkest part of the globe for Foster in 1903 concerned one of his clients, 
                        China
                    . In language unusually emotional for the normally reserved diplomat, he condemned the
                    "territorial aggressions" of Europeans in 
                        China
                     and praised American restraint. Yet when Theodore Roosevelt brandished the
                    "big stick" before 
                        Colombia
                     as Panama successfully revolted in 1903, Foster curiously approved of
                    Roosevelt's actions.24
            
            In his presidential addresses of 1906 and 1908, Foster continued to urge the strengthening of
                    international arbitration. One avenue was through the Permanent Court of Arbitration set up by the
                    twenty-six nations that had attended the first Hague Conference in 1899. An alternate route lay in a
                    series of limited bilateral treaties negotiated by Secretary of State Elihu Root. Using either
                    option, the 
                        United States
                     might lessen the possibility of resorting 
                  Foster's public support for arbitration, the American diplomat opposed it
                            strongly during the bargaining sessions. Viewed as "a tricky lawyer by British
                            Ambassador Sir Julian Pauncefote and as an obstructionist with a "strong
                            disinclination … to … arbitration" by Lord Herschell, who
                            headed the British-Canadian delegation, Foster apparently made a reputation as a
                            "stubborn unyielding negotiator who haggled over every detail." Charles S.
                            Campbell, Jr., Anglo-American Understanding, 1898-1903 (
                                Baltimore
                            , 1957), 86, 113, 83. Also see Edward Younger, John A. Kasson:
                                Politics and Diplomacy from Lincoln to McKinley (
                                Iowa
                             City, 1955), 370-71.
                  
                     21 C. Roland Marchand, The American Peace Movement and
                                Social Reform, 1898-1918 (
                                Princeton
                            , N.J., 1972), xii.
                  
                     22
                            Report of the Eighth Annul Meeting of the Lake Mohonk Conference on
                                International Arbitration, 1902, 7-8.
                  
                     23
                            Report of the Ninth Annual Meeting of the Lake Mohonk Conference on
                                International Arbitration, 1903 (Lake Mohonk, N.Y., 1903), 7.
                  
                     24 Frances Marie Phillips, "John Watson Foster"
                            (Ph.D. dissertation, University of 
                                New Mexico
                            , 1956), 516.
               
                     to war in resolving contentious issues with other nations.
                    Foster was open to either route, providing it enhanced judicial settlements and did not simply
                    introduce a third party to split differences in striking political compromises. The latter tendency
                    he strongly condemned.25
            
            Perhaps the most notable feature of Foster's 1906 presentation, however, was his call for a
                    halt in naval appropriations. With the precision that frequently characterized his speeches and
                    writings, he claimed that 64 percent of the total federal budget for that year was going for
                    military purposes. While denying any advocacy of "peace at any price" and
                    conceding the validity of the concept of a just war, he observed that "if the powerful
                    nations will unite in compulsory arbitration, all aggressive wars may be prevented." Linked
                    to arbitration was "the limitation and diminution of the armaments of the great
                        powers."26
            
            Still, Foster in 1908 remained basically optimistic. Three factors seemed primarily responsible for
                    his sanguine attitude. The first was the convocation the previous year of the Second Hague
                    Conference, "the most important event in the history of the human race," he
                    thought. Second was the Peace Conference of the Central American States, held in 
                        Washington
                     to establish an international court for these republics. Third were Root's
                    twelve arbitration treaties.27
            
            During the early twentieth century Foster spent a considerable amount of time writing for
                    publication: five books in ten years, including his two volumes of memoirs. Although historians have
                    relied heavily upon the memoirs, few have taken a close look at the other books from the standpoint
                    of Foster's role in the growing American peace movement or the mix of his ideas. One of
                    Foster's most sustained analyses of international arbitration came in a slim volume
                    entitled Arbitration and the Hague Court, published in 1904. In it he provided a
                    brief, historical background of international arbitration efforts, placing particular emphasis on
                    the origins and actions of the Hague Peace Conference. Despite the volume's scholarly
                    appearance, there was no doubting its polemical nature. Foster lauded the conference as one of
                    notable achievement, praising its participants as "neither dreamers nor theorists, but men
                    of eminently practical experience in government, diplomacy, and war."28
            
            It was, however, the diplomatic practitioner and Anglophile who emerged in the pages of this brief
                    volume. Repeatedly Foster 
                  
                     25Marchand, The American Peace Movement, 54.
                  
                     26
                            Report of the Twelfth Annual Meeting of the Lake Mohonk Conference on
                                International Arbitration, 1906 (Lake Mohonk, N.Y., 1906), 16.
                  
                     27
                            Report of the Fourteenth Annual Meeting of the Lake Mohonk Conference on
                                International Arbitration, 1908 (Lake Mohonk, N.Y., 1908), 12-13.
                  
                     28 John Watson Foster, Arbitration and the Hague
                            Court (
                                Boston
                            , 1904), 21.
               
                     underscored most clearly the pragmatic aspects of what the
                    participants at the Hague had achieved. "They did not even condemn war as wholly
                    unrighteous," he pointed out. "They did not attempt the impossible. They
                    recognized their work as imperfect, but it was the best then attainable."29 At least as notable as pragmatism, however, was the congruence of Anglo-American interests
                    in the cause of arbitration. Since the War of 1812, Foster wrote, the two nations had submitted
                    "all their many matters of dispute to a peaceful method of adjustment."30 As one of the most notable examples of arbitral success, he pointed to the 
                        Alabama
                     claims, part of the Treaty of 
                        Washington
                     settlements after the Civil War. Less interested in past achievements than in future
                    possibilities, however, he cited the 
                        Washington
                     Conference on International Arbitration, which in January, 1904, had called for the 
                        United States
                     and Great Britain, as well as other powers, to submit all their differences to the
                    Hague Permanent Court.31
            
            Indeed, it seems clear that many of Foster's efforts at improving the possibilities of peace
                    in the world were based on his Anglophile attitudes and assumptions, a fact which would bear heavily
                    on his thinking after 1914. As he helped found or joined an increasing number of organizations, and
                    seemed especially to delight in associating himself with the "practical" advocates
                    of peace, he occasionally became more doctrinaire and one-sided in his assessment of the 
                        United States
                    's responsibility for the wars it had fought in the past. His most impassioned
                    and sustained indictment of war came in a speech to the New 
                        England
                     Peace Conference in May, 1910. Reprinted the following year by the newly formed World
                    Peace Foundation under the title "War Not Inevitable," it acknowledged that one
                    hurdle to peace was the excitement, adventure, and popularity of war among large segments of the
                    population. Challenging the idea that war was sometimes inevitable and frequently necessary, Foster
                    proceeded to analyze the causes and consequences of three foreign wars fought by the 
                        United States
                     after independence. His survey, though concise, led to categorical conclusions:
                    "all the foreign wars in which we have engaged were brought on by our own precipitate
                    action... were not inevitable ... and might have been avoided by the exercise of prudence and
                        conciliation."32
            
            
               
                  29
                  Ibid., 96-97.
               
                  30
                        Ibid., 55.
               
                  31
                        Ibid. For the most part, Foster's work, like the author himself, was
                        methodical, balanced, and upbeat. What detracted from his presentation were occasional bits of
                        hyperbole. In the opening pages of Arbitration and the Hague Court, he
                        expressed concern over the outbreak of the Russo-Japanese War, claiming in his conclusion that
                        "the normal condition of the world is now peace ...." Ibid,
                        103, passim.
               
                  32 John Watson Foster, "War Not Inevitable," World Peace
                        Foundation Pamphlet Series, No. 3, Pt. II (October, 1911), 14.
            
            
            Looking first to the War of 1812, Foster blamed its origins on "a few fiery spirits in
                    Congress." Opposed to these War Hawks, he claimed, were "the better sentiment of
                    the country" together with an earnest but ineffectual president, James 
                        Madison
                    . Based upon the fact that the nation was forced to make peace "without
                    settling a single question about which we entered the contest," the former diplomat
                    declared that "never was a war more fruitless in its conclusion. It was neither inevitable
                    nor necessary."33
            
            The same could not be said of the Mexican War, a conflict from which the American nation emerged with
                    a vastly enlarged empire. Did the ends justify the means? The answer was no. "Although the
                    results of the war were greatly to the advantage of the 
                        United States
                    , that does not change the fact that it was provoked on our part and was one of conquest
                    and injustice." Adopting, as one would have expected, a thoroughly northern perspective,
                    Foster believed that the war's origins were "largely inspired by the spirit of
                    slavery extension." Indeed, he pointed to the contrast between American behavior toward
                    Mexico over 
                        Texas
                     and the far more discreet American actions toward Great Britain over 
                        Oregon
                    . Accusing President James K. Polk of haste in dispatching troops to the Rio Grande in
                    January, 1846, Foster averred that the conflict was not only "unnecessary but
                        unjustifiable."34
            
            When, more than half a century after the Mexican imbroglio, the 
                        United States
                     again marched to war, this time against 
                        Spain
                    , Foster found conditions in the prewar period somewhat similar to those that had
                    brought war in 1812. In both instances, he noted, jingoistic politicians and editors clamored loudly
                    and lobbied incessantly for war against a peace-loving president. In Foster's view the
                    Spanish at the end of the century would almost certainly have conceded colonial autonomy to 
                        Cuba
                     had negotiations been allowed to continue. In seeking to explain William
                    McKinley's reluctant decision to seek war in the spring of 1898, Foster pointed to the
                    "ill-timed catastrophe" of the 
                        United States
                     battleship 
                        Maine
                    , which had been sunk by a mysterious explosion in mid-February with a heavy loss of
                    life. By then, Foster argued, Americans were ready for war. He felt, in fact, that American naval
                    officers had opposed raising the battleship after the tragedy for fear that an inquiry might
                    exonerate the Spanish by revealing that an internal explosion, not an external mine, was at
                        fault.35
            
            
               
                  33
                  Ibid., 6.
               
                  34
                  Ibid., 7.
               
                  35
                  Ibid., 8. At least one correspondent, the historian
                        James Ford Rhodes, found Foster's treatment of the origins of this war intriguing.
                        Assessing Foster's observations as those of an insider, Rhodes viewed the ex-secretary
                        of state's opinions as "weighty utterances," particularly the
                        certainty that "the war was forced upon 
                            Spain
                         by us ... and might easily have been avoided with honor." James Ford
                        Rhodes to Foster, April 7, 1911, Box 116, Woolsey Papers.
            
            
            In retrospect, one must wonder why, if Foster felt so strongly about the matter, he did not offer his
                    counsel to his fellow Republican, McKinley, during those difficult months of early 1898 when the
                    president sought so valiantly to avert war. Not only is there no record that Foster, once minister
                    to 
                        Spain
                    , attempted to play a role in the prewar deliberations, but there also seems no evidence
                    that he expressed any public reservations about the war he later condemned as "entered upon
                    without proper deliberation, under the whip and spur of undue public excitement."36
            
            Unlike the aftermath of the Mexican War, the Spanish conflict brought in its wake less favorable
                    circumstances. One was the acquisition of the Philippines, an archipelago he curiously called
                    "largely pagan and Mohammedan" and more accurately assessed as "an
                    element of weakness in time of war and a heavy expense in peace." Equally troubling was
                    "the permanent enlargement of our military establishment" in the years which
                    followed, a development he judged excessively expensive.37
            
            For all of his dogmatism, however, Foster waffled discernably when, in the midst of discussing
                    foreign wars, he digressed momentarily and turned his attention to the Civil War. Admitting that
                    "possibly the questions ... of secession and ... slavery could not have been settled ...
                    except by a resort to arms," he seemed to concede the appropriateness of war under certain
                    circumstances. Rather than examining more closely the factors which made this conflict different
                    from the others, he begged further consideration by wondering aloud "how much more
                    economical it would have been to have purchased peace by paying the full value of every slave
                    emancipated," hardly a practical solution in the emotionally charged decade of the 1850.38
            
            
               
                  36 Foster, "War Not Inevitable," 9.
               
                  37
                        Ibid. A decade before his 
                            Boston
                         speech, Foster had published his pioneer text, A Century of American
                            Diplomacy. While not providing coverage of the Spanish-American conflict, it did treat
                        in some detail both the War of 1812 and the Mexican War. Particularly in the first instance,
                        Foster's conclusions differed markedly from his later interpretation. Although he
                        termed it "tedious" to narrate "the causes and circumstances which
                        occasioned that conflict," Foster did point to the traditional issues of neutral rights
                        on the high seas, claiming that British practices were "high-handed outrages"
                        and assessing the results of the war "of much benefit to the country." Calling
                        American grievances "just cause of war," he added that "it was only
                        by an appeal to arms we could vindicate our proper position among the nations .... We had shown
                        that no nation, however powerful, could trespass with impunity upon what we claimed as our
                        rights, and that we were prepared to draw the sword against any antagonist in defense of our
                        national interests." On the Mexican War, Foster would show greater consistency,
                        pointing repeatedly to strong American opposition to the conflict and quoting his one-time
                        benefactor, Ulysses S. Grant, to indict the Polk administration for conducting "one of
                        the most unjust [wars] ever waged by a stronger against a weaker nation ...." Why
                        Foster's views on the War of 1812 underwent such substantial change in the first decade
                        of the twentieth century is not clear. See A Century of American Diplomacy (
                            Boston
                        , 1900), 233-49, 315-21, passim.
               
                  38 Foster, "War Not Inevitable,"7
               
            
            
            "Between 1901 and 1914," writes Charles DeBenedetti, "45 new peace
                    organizations appeared in the 
                        United States
                     in a growth spurt unequaled in the history of peace reform."39 While Foster was hardly a part of all, or even most, he was nonetheless an active organizer
                    and an inveterate joiner during these years. Clearly he fit comfortably into the conservative
                    leadership of the American peace movement at this time.40 It was, after all,
                    during these years that the "practical peace advocates" held sway.41 Often carry-overs from the late nineteenth century, they were in the words of another
                    historian "patricians in the genteel tradition... [who] shared a fixed and certain moral
                    credo, an unskeptical habit of mind, an undiluted faith in the possibility of human perfectibility,
                    and a benevolent, even redemptive, vision of America's place in the world."42
            
            It was in this context that Foster also became active in Andrew Carnegie's establishment of
                    the Endowment for International Peace in 1910, a role that climaxed a decade of energetic activity
                    in peace groups. During the first years of the new century, Foster had not only been part of the
                    Mohonk Conferences but had helped to found the 
                        New York
                     Peace Society, the National Arbitration Committee, the American Conference on
                    International Arbitration, the National Arbitration and Peace Congress, and the American Society of
                    International Law. He had also attended the Second Hague Conference in 1907 as a member of the
                    Chinese delegation.
            When, in 1910, Carnegie decided to invest $10 million in a new peace organization, the
                    Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, the industrialist looked to individuals "of
                    prominence, respectability, political influence, and experience in other foundations"43 to provide leadership. Among the twenty-eight trustees was Foster, one of
                    seven international lawyers represented on the board but one of only two individuals who had played
                    a role of any prominence in the American peace movement prior to 1905.44 It was
                    not that Foster was one of Carnegie's intimates—far from it. In fact, he would
                    be the first trustee to tender his resignation after the initial organizational efforts. Only the
                    intercession 
                  
                     39 Charles DeBenedetti, The Peace Reform in American
                                History (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1980), 79.
                  
                     40 John P. Campbell, "Taft, Roosevelt, and the Arbitration
                            Treaties of 1911," Journal of American History, LIII (September,
                            1966), 288-89.
                  
                     41 DeBenedetti, Peace Reform in American History,
                            79.
                  
                     42 Larry L. Fabian, Andrew Carnegie's Peace
                                Endowment: The Tycoon, The President, and Their Bargain of 1910 (
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1985), 9.
                  
                     43 Marchand, American Peace Movement, 120. Also see
                            Michael A. Lutzker, "The Formation of the Carnegie Endowment for International
                            Peace: A Study of the Establishment-Centered Peace Movement, 1910-1914," in Building the Organizational Society: Essays on Associational Activities in
                                Modern America, ed. Jerry 
                                Israel
                             (
                                New York
                            , 1972), 150-51, 265.
                  
                     44 Marchand, The American Peace Movement,
                        120-21.
               
                     of Root, whom he admired greatly, convinced Foster to change
                    his mind and remain on the board.45
            
            For partisan Republicans like Foster, the early months of the Endowment were difficult ones, for the
                    Republican party was increasingly fragmented into two wings. The progressives strongly supported
                    greater federal action on behalf of domestic reform, while conservatives perceived dangers to
                    laissez-faire economics in a more assertive national government. President William Howard Taft,
                    Roosevelt's hand-picked successor, led the conservatives more prominently with each passing
                    year. Former president Roosevelt, whose generally progressive legacy Taft threatened, became the
                    president's strident critic by 1910. Unfortunately, that part of the peace movement which
                    aimed most specifically at extending international arbitration got caught in the cross fire of these
                    two party factions and leaders.
            When, in 1911, Taft submitted for Senate approval broadly written arbitration treaties with Great
                    Britain and 
                        France
                    , Roosevelt launched an open attack on the Taft administration. With the presidential
                    election of 1912 in the offing and the Taft and progressive wings of the GOP poised for battle, it
                    was a delicate moment to take sides, particularly for the still-embryonic Endowment. Yet it seemed
                    inevitable that the Endowment would have to choose between the two. Should it support Taft, who
                    strongly favored arbitration of virtually any matter and whose open-ended treaties failed to define
                    "justiciable" issues, or was Roosevelt right in urging rejection of documents he
                    considered visionary, unrealistic, and dangerous? A third option for the Senate as it considered
                    whether to approve the treaties was simply to modify them to some degree.46 With
                    the Endowment board filled with individuals strongly committed one way or the other, bitter, perhaps
                    destructive, dispute seemed inevitable.
            Unable to attend a critical meeting of the Endowment on this issue, Foster wrote to then-Senator Root
                    that he opposed any aggressive Endowment campaign against the Senate, particularly in view of the
                    Senate's Constitutional obligations and the "almost inconceivable ...
                    blunder" that "no member of the Committee on Foreign Relations ever saw a line of
                    the arbitration treaties and no member was consulted by the President or secretary of state before
                    they were sent in."47 Advocating approval but open to
                    "reasonable amendments," Foster chose a middle course which typified his usual
                    style of operating. In public, in his 1911 address to the 
                  
                     45 Fabian, "Carnegie Endowment for International
                            Peace," 46. Also see Elihu Root to Foster, January 31, 1911, John W. Foster Papers
                            (Manuscript Division, Library of Congress, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C.).
                  
                     46
                            
                                Campbell
                            , "Taft, Roosevelt and the Arbitration Treaties of 1911,"
                            279-96.
                  
                     47 Fabian, "Carnegie Endowment for International
                            Peace," 57.
               
                     Mohonk Conference, he would express disappointment with
                    Roosevelt's "fulmination" against the treaties but still portray the
                    expresident as one who had matured appreciably in his views on international arbitration despite
                    "an erratic and inconsistent course...."48 In the end, as
                    Foster had hoped, the Endowment stepped away from a clear stance on this bitter controversy which
                    ended with the Senate's rejection of Taft's treaty efforts to extend American
                    participation in arbitration.
            If in retrospect Foster stood opposed to every foreign war in which his country had fought since
                    independence, he faced the question of intervention against 
                        Germany
                     after 1914 in a different frame of mind. Writing to his son-in-law Lansing, Foster
                    termed 
                        Germany
                     in September, 1914, "the disturber of the peace of the world."49 Still, although hardly neutral in "thought and action" as
                    President Woodrow Wilson had counseled Americans to be, Foster seemed to share the popular aversion
                    to immediate American involvement in the European conflict. During 1915, as the U-boat crisis
                    developed, he resisted the preparedness program. Somewhat ambiguously, he noted, "Our
                    people seem to have gotten into a night-mare over the dangers which they claim are threatening
                        us."50
            
            Nor was Foster's mounting animosity toward 
                        Germany
                     surprising, given his persistent Anglophilia. For years before war erupted in the
                    summer of 1914, Foster had worked to solidify the Anglo-American relationship. On this point his
                    writings have left no doubt. Pointing to the British in the late nineteenth century, he had
                    emphasized the "many ties to bind us to 
                        England
                    ," whom he had termed the "natural ally" of the 
                        United States
                    . As the new century began, he had written, "Our relations with Great Britain
                    are more intimate and more important than with any other nation."51 By
                    1903 his actions as well as his writings bore witness to this increasingly close relationship with
                    the British. As a strong and active member of the National Committee, he agitated for the signing of
                    a bilateral treaty pledging the 
                        United States
                     and the British to resolve long-standing differences in an amicable fashion.
            Despite a lifetime of Republican partisanship, Foster viewed with approval at least the diplomatic
                    aspects of Wilson's first administration and predicted the president's reelection
                    should he remain consistent in this approach.52 Perhaps it was Wilson's
                    combination 
                  
                     48 Quoted in ibid., 55.
                  
                     49 Foster to Robert Lansing, September 16,1914, Vol. IV, Lansing
                            Papers (Manuscript Division, Library of Congress, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C.).
                  
                     50 Quoted in Phillips, "John Watson Foster," 523.
                  
                     51 Foster, "The History of the 
                                Paris
                             Tribunal," The Independent, XLVIII (May 7, 1896),
                            612-13; Foster, "A Permanent Method of Arbitration with Great Britain,"
                                The Independent, LII (June 14,1900), 1420-22; and Foster,
                            "Prospects of Arbitration with 
                                England
                            ," The Independent, LV (December 24, 1903), 3025-26.
                  
                     52 Foster to James H. Wilson as quoted in Phillip, "John
                            Watson Foster," 523.
               
                    
                    
                  JOHN WATSON FOSTER
                  
                  Courtesy of the Indiana Historical Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                     of moralistic rhetoric and incremental success with the German
                    government which gained Foster's approval. Probably of even greater consequence was
                    Wilson's association with Lansing, of whom the president was obviously fond and whose
                    counsel Wilson frequently followed. Whatever the case—and Foster's
                    correspondence is too thin to plumb the depths of his thinking—there remains only the
                    clear portrait of an aging diplomat in declining health who fretted about the well-being of
                    "Bert" (Lansing) "in this terrible crisis of the world's
                        history."53
            
            In the end, Foster lost all patience with the German government. When this happened is unclear, but
                    by 1917 he told his old friend James H. Wilson, "Though a pacifist after a fashion, I am so
                    bitter with 
                        Germany
                     I rather hope we will get into the scrimmage."54 Foster
                    had written of the European tinderbox a dozen years before Sarajevo, "the slightest
                    incident may set its armies in battle and the nearest spark light the fires of war and envelop the
                    continent, if not the whole world, in conflagration."55 Right, too, was
                    his instinct that the glamour and glory of warfare was sufficient to tempt into European battle even
                    the far distant American people.
            Only missing in Foster's thoughtful and perceptive assessment of the situation was an
                    understanding of how much of his own ambivalance remained. Although devoting considerable energy to
                    the peace issue during the last quarter-century of his life, Foster himself remained vulnerable to
                    the call to battle. It was one thing to criticize in categorical terms the past war making of the
                    American nation. It was quite another to remain committed to such seemingly clear, simple, and
                    principled certitudes when confronted with the messy frustrations of the present and the haunting
                    uncertainties of the future. When that happened, the intense, almost dogmatic, critic of past wars
                    was prepared, if not eager, to set aside for a later date an analysis of the European crisis while
                    he joined the Allied cause against a malevolent enemy.
            In this regard Foster was really not much different from many of those with whom he had worked in
                    past peace efforts. Like Root, John Bassett Moore, and even Taft, Foster was, in the words of David
                    S. Patterson, "part of a larger cultural elite that assumed moral progress and thought in
                    abstract, if not idealistic terms."56
                    
                  
                     53 Foster to Robert Lansing, September 4, 1914, Vol. IV, Lansing
                            Papers.
                  
                     54 Foster to James H. Wilson as quoted in Phillips, "John
                            Watson Foster," 523-24. To his grandson, John Foster Dulles, he wrote: "In
                            a large sense I think the Entente Allies are fighting our battle. Suppose 
                                Germany
                             should be victorious in the war, and the influence of Great Britain overthrown
                            throughout the world. In what condition would mankind be leff?" Quoted in Devine,
                                John Watson Foster, 98.
                  
                     55 See "Address of John W. Foster, Delivered at the
                            Dedication of Soldiers' Monument, at 
                                Indianapolis
                            , May 15, 1902," in Foster, War Stories, 184.
                  
                     56 David S. Patterson, Toward a Warless World: The
                                Travail of the American Peace Movement, 1887-1914 (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1976), 260.
               
                     It was, after all, a movement that was both comfortable and
                    respectable. If peace advocates were more individualistic than cohesive, they nonetheless shared
                    certain common tendencies at the turn of the century: they advocated arbitration, although they
                    sometimes differed on how it should be carried out; they scorned militarism, especially the European
                    variety; and they yearned for greater cooperation with the English, perceiving Anglo-American
                    cooperation as the cornerstone to meaningful, moderate, and civilized international relations. When
                    faced with war, whether in 1898 or 1914, they tended to fall silent in the first instance and, by
                    1917 if not before, to follow eagerly their Anglophile instincts. Pragmatic rather than doctrinaire,
                    they "constructed a newly national movement on the old cosmopolitan faith in human reason,
                    progress, Christianity, Great Power harmony, and the need for working peacekeeping
                        mechanisms."57
            
            What is quite clear, of course, is Foster's prominence in the peace movement in an era when
                    organization and optimism prevailed. When, during World War I, he was not to be found among the
                    ranks of the peacemakers, it should be remembered that a new type of peace activist was then
                    emerging. In place of those like Foster who advocated legalistic and educational approaches to
                    pacifism, those who spoke and worked against American involvement in the war were more
                    action-oriented: feminists, social workers, publicists, and social-gospel clergy—a
                    progressive coalition, to which antiwar Socialists were added.58 It was a
                    movement that had moved beyond the more conservative instincts and objectives of men like Foster.
            Still, Foster had made important contributions to the peace movement of earlier years. Motivated by
                    his own wartime experiences, he became in the late nineteenth century a highly visible participant
                    in the most discussed approach to world peace: the arbitration movement. A knowledgeable
                    international lawyer whose Chinese clients were in special need of being left alone by western
                    imperialists, he sometimes had obvious vested interests in the extension of global peace. Doubtless
                    courted because of his past service as secretary of state (he was the only holder of this
                    prestigious post in the late nineteenth century to play such a prominent role), he fit comfortably
                    into a movement which before World War I emphasized practical goals and respectable tactics. While
                    peace advocates occasionally used harsh words, their critiques were ordinarily aimed at events long
                    buried in history, past wars to cite but one example. If John Watson Foster was, in his own words,
                    only "a pacifist after a fashion," it was a posture he shared with a considerable
                    majority of those who made up the American peace movement in the late nineteenth and early twentieth
                    centuries.
            
               
                  57 DeBenedetti, Peace Reform in American History, 79.
               
                  58 Charles Chatfield, For Peace and Justice: Pacifism in
                            America, 1914-1941 (
                            Knoxville
                        , Tenn., 1971), 15.
            
         
         
         
            
               President Benjamin Harrison
               
               Courtesy of the Library of Congress, 
                            Washington
                        , D. C.
            
            
            Benjamin Harrison, Centennial President: A Review Essay
            
                    Charles W. Calhoun
                    *
                
            
               The Presidency of Benjamin Harrison. By Homer E. Socolofsky and Allan B. Spetter.
                    (Lawrence: University Press of 
                        Kansas
                    , 1987. Pp. xi, 261. Notes, bibliographic essay, index. $25.00.)
            One hundred years ago, in June of 1888, the Republican National Convention nominated Benjamin
                    Harrison of Indiana as the party's candidate for president. In the ensuing months the
                    Republicans fought a difficult campaign against the Democratic incumbent, Grover 
                        Cleveland
                    , and the narrow victory they achieved in November owed a great deal to
                    Harrison's tireless personal campaigning from his home in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Four months later, when he took the inaugural oath, Harrison became the first and only
                    Hoosier ever to occupy the high office. Harrison was also the nation's centennial
                    president, taking office a hundred years after George 
                        Washington
                     and launching the country on its second century under the Constitution. Although his
                    administration was plagued with controversy, it nonetheless posted a record of substantial and
                    enduring achievement. The story of the Harrison administration's trials and triumphs has
                    received its most recent and thorough telling in a new volume in the University Press of 
                        Kansas
                    's presidential series, The Presidency of Benjamin Harrison,
                    by Homer E. Socolofsky and Allan B. Spetter.
            Many twentieth century historians have not been particularly kind to Harrison. In four separate
                    ratings of American presidents by historians between 1948 and 1977, Harrison's rank varied
                    from twentieth to twenty-seventh; in each instance he fell within the "Competent"
                    range—not quite "Unsuccessful," but far from
                    "Successful." 
                  
                     * Charles W. Calhoun is chairman and professor of history
                            at Austin Peay State University, Clarksville, 
                                Tennessee
                            . He is the author of Gilded Age Cato: The Life of Walter Q.
                                Gresham (
                                Lexington
                            , Ky., 1988).
               
                     The volume on the 1880s in the much respected New
                        American Nation Series portrays him as "practically a figurehead" with an
                    "antediluvian" understanding of government. R. Hal Williams's important
                    study of politics in the 1890s recognizes Harrison as a capable spokesman for and as a leader of the
                    Republican party who "added important new dimensions" to the presidency. Yet a
                    recent overview of the Gilded Age, published in 1984, dismisses the Hoosier chief executive as a
                    "cipher" whose administration was an "interregnum" that brought
                    "the nadir of presidential authority."1
            
            Harrison's contemporaries generally gave him higher marks. To be sure, many of his fellow
                    politicians perceived this blue-blooded scion of an old 
                        Virginia
                     family as a rather cold fish, but even these men accorded him a grudging respect for
                    his abilities. 
                        Ohio
                    's Republican wheelhorse, Joseph Benson Foraker, noted that the Hoosier chief
                    executive had "a grouchy way of meeting people," but that "in discharging
                    the duties of his office Harrison was an excellent President." Senator 
                        Shelby
                     M. Cullom of 
                        Illinois
                    , who had coveted the Republican nomination in 1888, conceded that Harrison turned out
                    to be "an exceptionally able President,... [who] gave the country an excellent
                    administration." Even Henry Adams, who had little but contempt for most of his countrymen
                    in political life, recorded in The Education that "Mr. Harrison was an
                    excellent President, a man of ability and force; perhaps the best President the Republican Party had
                    put forward since Lincoln's death." Yet with typical perversity Adams added that
                    in 1892 he "felt a shade of preference for President 
                        Cleveland
                    , not so much personally as because the Democrats represented to him the last remnants
                    of the eighteenth century."2
            
            Adams's disenchantment with the late nineteenth century was mirrored in twentieth century
                    historical writing, much of which was highly critical of the Gilded Age. In many ways the decline of
                    Harrison's historical reputation has simply been part of a general denigration by scholars
                    of the post-Reconstruction decades. As Allan Peskin has said, "the accomplishments of an
                    entire generation have been written out of the American historical memory."3 This has been especially true in historians' treatment of politics and politicians.
            
               
                  1 Ronald A. Wells, "American Presidents as Political and Moral
                        Leaders: A Report on Four Surveys," Fides et Historia, XI (Fall,
                        1978), 42; John A. Garraty, The New Commonwealth, 1877-1890 (
                            New York
                        , 1968), 305; R. Hal Williams, Years of Decision: American Politics in
                            the 1890s (
                            New York
                        , 1978), 14, 36; Sean Dennis Cashman, America in the Gilded Age: From
                            the Death of Lincoln to the Rise of Theodore Roosevelt (
                            New York
                        , 1984), 214, 238.
               
                  2 Joseph Benson Foraker, Notes of a Busy Life (2 vols., 
                            Cincinnati
                        , 1916), I, 425; 
                            Shelby
                         M. Cullom, Fifty Years of Public Service (
                            Chicago
                        , 1911), 248; Henry Adams, The Education of Henry Adams: An
                            Autobiography (
                            Boston
                        , 1918, 1961), 321.
               
                  3 Allan Peskin, "Why the Gilded Age?" Hayes
                            Historical Journal, V (Summer, 1986), 5.
            
            
            According to the traditional interpretation, politics in the Gilded Age had no real content or
                    purpose beyond reaping the spoils and lavishing subsidies on the nation's "robber
                    barons." The year Harrison entered the presidency, Englishman James Bryce published the
                    first edition of his classic study, The American Commonwealth, which argued that
                    "neither party has anything definite to say on ... issues; neither party has any
                    principles, any distinctive tenets.... All has been lost, except office or the hope of it."
                    From the vantage of 1918, Henry Adams looked back on the postwar decades as "poor in
                    purpose and barren in results." V. L. Parrington characterized the period as a
                    "huge barbecue." To Charles A. Beard and Mary R. Beard it seemed an "age
                    of negation"; to Richard Hofstadter, "an age of cynicism." And Sean
                    Dennis Cashman's 1984 overview borrowed from Dr. Samuel Johnson for the title of its
                    chapter on politics: "The Last Refuge of a Scoundrel." In this view the central
                    aim of Gilded Age politicians was obtaining office. Republicans and Democrats were like Tweedledum
                    and Tweedledee, engaged in a vacuous contest for plunder; no differences over principle divided
                    them, and they joined hands in mouthing "false" issues such as the tariff, which
                    diverted public attention away from "real" issues such as the maldistribution of
                        wealth.4
            
            Although many historians of the late nineteenth century now reject the traditional interpretation,
                    this "distorted caricature of the Gilded Age," as Peskin calls it, has shown
                    remarkable durability.5 Figuring out why this is so is not easy, but one may
                    venture a few suggestions. First is the problem of context. In the 1840s, ‘50s,
                    ’60s, and early 1870s, American politicians grappled with emotionally charged issues such
                    as slavery, sectionalism, and the very existence of the Union and its reconstruction. Parties were
                    identified with clearly defined moral stances on these questions. Once these matters had been
                    settled, according to many contemporary observers and later scholars, politics lapsed into a kind of
                    ideological desuetude; the two parties did not seem to be saying things that were very different,
                    and politicians, hence, did not seem 
                  
                     4 James Bryce, The American Commonwealth (2 vols., 
                                London
                            , 1889), I, 653; Adams, Education, 294; Vernon Louis
                            Parrington, Main Currents in American Thought: An Interpretation of American
                                Literature From the Beginnings to 1920 (3 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1927, 1930), III, 23; Charles A. Beard and Mary R. Beard, The
                                Rise of American Civilization: Vol. II: The Industrial Era (
                                New York
                            , 1930), 341; Richard Hofstadter, The American Political Tradition
                                and the Men Who Made It (
                                New York
                            , 1948, 1951), 162, 164; Cashman, America in the Gilded Age,
                            chapter 7. For historiographic treatments see Vincent P. DeSantis, "The Political
                            Life of the Gilded Age: A Review of the Recent Literature," The
                                History Teacher, IX (November, 1975), 73-106; Geoffrey Blodgett, "A New
                            Look at the Gilded Age: Politics in a Cultural Context," in Victorian
                                America, ed. Daniel Walker Howe (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1976), 95-108.
                  
                     5 Peskin, "Why the Gilded Age?" 5; DeSantis,
                            "Political Literature of the Gilded Age," 73-106.
               
                     to be addressing important issues. At the
                    other end of the Gilded Age came the Progressive Era, which witnessed debates about the fundamental
                    nature of government and society, and political life again appeared highly issue-oriented and
                    activist. Bracketed by these two periods, the Gilded Age's concern for matters such as the
                    tariff, currency, and civil service reform seemed trivial. Such a conclusion, however, derives from
                    a failure to analyze the era's political actors in the context of their own times and a
                    failure to recognize how significant both leaders and voters believed these more practical issues to
                    be.
            Also contributing to distorted judgments of Gilded Age politics is a tendency among twentieth century
                    historians to read back into the period modern values regarding government activism. As Geoffrey
                    Blodgett has noted, such writers exhibit "a profound impatience with the Gilded Age for
                    having not yet discovered the Welfare State." Most Americans today, and especially most
                    modern scholars of liberal political persuasion, accept the idea that government has a
                    responsibility to foster the economic well-being of the nation and to promote the welfare of its
                    citizens. The consensus in the Gilded Age was far different. Most citizens clung to the traditional
                    belief that the more limited government was, the better it was. They saw its main functions as the
                    maintenance of order and the protection of persons and property; most would have regarded New Deal
                    and post-New Deal redistributive policy as an unjust abuse of power. That the electorate operated
                    within this Jeffersonian ideological context worked as a restraining influence on politicians who
                    may have wished to move government forward but who also hoped to win elections. The Republicans
                    suffered one of the most crushing defeats of any American political party in the 1890 elections,
                    after the first session of the Fifty-first Congress with its extraordinary record of achievement,
                    including the Sherman Anti-Trust Act. The failure of government to do more in the Gilded Age
                    represented less an evasion of "real issues" by political leaders than a
                    recognition of their limited options in a democracy peopled by a conservative electorate. Seen in
                    this light, as Blodgett puts it, "the whole idea of ‘real issues’
                    versus ‘false issues’ is intellectually bankrupt."6
            
            The political demographics of the era also inhibited government activism at the national level. From
                    1875 to 1897 each of the two major parties controlled both the presidency and a clear majority in
                    both houses of Congress for only one two-year period: the Republicans in 1889-1891 and the Democrats
                    in 1893-1895. In the first case the Republican majority in each house of the Fifty-first Congress
                    was extremely narrow. For most of the period Congress 
                  
                     6 Blodgett, "A New Look at the Gilded Age,"
                        96-99.
               
                     was split, with the Democrats more often than not controlling
                    the House of Representatives and the Republicans usually holding the Senate. Needless to say,
                    passage of legislation under such circumstances was difficult.7
            
            This stalemate reflected an almost exact equilibrium between the two major parties in the national
                    electorate. The Gilded Age was not a Republican era, as some traditional accounts suggest, but
                    instead one in which Democrats and Republicans were nearly equal in strength nationwide. To be sure,
                    only one Democrat, Grover 
                        Cleveland
                    , won the presidency, twice. In four of the five presidential elections between 1876 and
                    1892, however, the Democratic candidate won more popular votes than his Republican opponent, and in
                    1880 Republican James A. Garfield's lead over Winfield Scott 
                        Hancock
                     was less than half of 1 percent. In 1888 Harrison trailed 
                        Cleveland
                     by over ninety thousand votes. Of course, a considerable portion of the
                    Democrats' popular total came from the emerging Solid South, but counterbalancing that
                    anomalous condition, the Republicans could rely almost as surely on winning substantial majorities
                    in several states in the Northeast and upper Midwest. Neither of these two blocs of states by itself
                    held enough electoral votes to win the presidency. In any given election the result turned on the
                    outcome in a half dozen so-called "doubtful" states, principally 
                        New York
                     and Indiana. Hence, party leaders concentrated their efforts in these states,
                    dispatching their star speakers and spending the largest sums from their campaign chests. They also
                    looked to the doubtful states for likely national nominees. Of the two major parties'
                    twenty nominees for president and vice-president between 1876 and 1892, eight were from 
                        New York
                     and five from Indiana.8
            
            The equilibrium in party strength tended to magnify the importance of party management and
                    organization and to increase the power of state party bosses, especially in the doubtful states. If
                    a powerful state leader were for some reason "off" the presidential nominee, a
                    decision by him and his associates to sit out the campaign could prove fatal to the
                    nominee's chances of victory. Similarly, when presidents won elections narrowly, party
                    bosses were quick to claim that their efforts had provided the winning edge and to demand patronage
                    recognition as reward. The growth of the federal bureaucracy from 51,000 employees in 1871 to
                    157,000 in 1891 raised the stakes enormously for the state power brokers.9
            
            If the emphasis on party discipline led organization men to stress the virtue of "my party
                    right or wrong," the equilibrium in 
                  
                     7
                            Historical Statistics of the 
                                    United States
                                , Colonial Times to 1970 (
                                Washington
                            , 1970), 1083.
                  
                     8
                            Ibid., 1073, 1079.
                  
                     9
                            Ibid., 1103.
               
                    
                    
                  CARTOON FROM THE 1888
                                PRIMARY SEASON
                  
                  BENJAMIN HARRISON AND WALTER Q. GRESHAM STAND READY TO STEP INTO JAMES G. BLAINE'S
                                SLIPPERS.
                  
                  Courtesy of the Library of Congress, 
                                Washington
                            , D. C.
               
                     strength also made party leaders cautious in articulating party
                    policy. This in turn affected governance. Too strong a stand on any given issue might offend enough
                    members of some group within the party to cause defeat at the next election. In 1884 James G. Blaine
                    lost 
                        New York
                     by about one thousand votes out of over a million cast, and contemporaries and
                    historians alike could point to many factors, both ideological and organizational, any one of which
                    could have tipped the balance and cost him the presidency.10 The
                    politicians' perceived need to treat issues gingerly buttressed the argument made by many
                    historians that there was not much real difference between the Republicans and Democrats, but these
                    scholars have again applied an inappropriate standard. American parties generally have not adhered
                    to the European model of left and right parties with comparatively little area of agreement between
                    them. Instead, American parties ordinarily have been broad consensus organizations sharing wide
                    areas of agreement; their aim has been to win as many adherents as possible from the vast middle of
                    the political spectrum that most Americans inhabit. The stasis Republicans and Democrats confronted
                    in the late nineteenth century simply underscored their need to avoid the fringes of political
                    belief.
            This is not to say, however, that Republicans and Democrats did not disagree vehemently over
                    questions of public policy. They did. Indeed, some of the best recent scholarship on Gilded Age
                    politics has demonstrated that there were important differences between the two major parties.11 Although neither organization achieved a perfect internal consensus, the
                    parties did project opposing ideological tendencies, offering voters a fundamental choice between
                    the Republicans' espousal of nationalism and government activism and the
                    Democrats' adherence to states-rights localism and minimal government. Historians of the
                    last two decades generally recognize the truth in James G. Blaine's assertion in Twenty Years of Congress that Gilded Age Democrats and Republicans exhibited the
                    same "enduring and persistent line of division between the two parties which in a generic
                    sense have always existed in the 
                        United States
                    ;—the party of strict construction and the party of liberal construction, the
                    party of State Rights and the party of National Supremacy, 
                  
                     10
                            Appleton's Annual Cyclopedia and Register of Important Events of the
                                Year 1884 (
                                New York
                            , 1885), 585, 775; H. Wayne Morgan, From Hayes to McKinley:
                                National Party Politics, 1877-1896 (
                                Syracuse
                            , N.Y., 1969), 232-35; Garraty, New Commonwealth, 286-87.
                  
                     11 See, for example, Morgan, From Hayes to McKinley;
                            R. Hal Williams, " ‘Dry Bones and Dead Language’: The
                            Democratic Party," and Lewis L. Gould, "The Republican Search for a
                            National Majority," both in The Gilded Age, ed. H. Wayne Morgan (
                                Syracuse
                            , N.Y., 1970), 129-48, 171-87; Williams, Years of Decision;
                            Robert S. Salisbury, "The Republican Party and Positive Government:
                            1860-1890," Mid-America, LXVIII (January, 1986), 15-34.
               
                     the party of stinted revenue and restricted expenditure, and
                    the party of generous income with its wise application to public improvement."12
            
            Much of the recent writing on late nineteenth-century politics has focused on voters, employing
                    sophisticated quantitative methods to explore the ethno-cultural roots of citizens’ party
                        affiliation.13 But also under way is a reexamination of many of the
                    era's political leaders—a reevaluation of their qualities of leadership and the
                    values and beliefs that underlay their partisanship.14 Socolofsky and
                    Spetter's The Presidency of Benjamin Harrison is an important addition to
                    this literature. It is a welcome substitute for the relatively weak last volume of Harry J.
                    Sievers's three-volume biography, which devoted far too much space to the minutiae of
                    Harrison's personal life and far too little to questions of policy.15
                    Although the authors of the present work do not offer as extensive an analysis as
                    Harrison's presidency deserves, they do help rescue this neglected chief executive from
                    unwarranted obscurity in a way that should stimulate further study of his career, election, and
                    administration.
            Socolofsky and Spetter open their study with an examination of Harrison's background and his
                    nomination and election to the presidency. They describe the diminutive Hoosier as a
                    "surprise nominee" in 1888, "the second choice of most
                    delegates" at the national convention, and they repeat the story of James G.
                    Blaine's last-minute telegram from 
                        Scotland
                     urging his lieutenants to "take 
                  
                     12 James G. Blaine, Twenty Years of Congress: From
                                Lincoln to Garfield. With a Review of the Events Which Led to the Political Revolution
                                of 1860 (2 vols., Norwich, Conn., 1884, 1886), I, 180.
                  
                     13 See, for example, Paul Kleppner, The Cross of Culture:
                                A Social Analysis of Midwestern Politics, 1850-1900 (
                                New York
                            , 1970) and The Third Electoral System, 1853-1892: Parties, Voters,
                                and Political Cultures (
                                Chapel Hill
                            , N.C., 1979); Richard Jensen, The Winning of the Midwest: Social
                                and Political Conflict, 1888-1896 (
                                Chicago
                            , 1971); Samuel T. McSeveney, The Politics of Depression: Political
                                Behavior in the Northeast, 1893-1896 (
                                New York
                            , 1972); Melvyn Hammarberg, The Indiana Voter: The Historical
                                Dynamics of Party Allegiance during the 1870s (
                                Chicago
                            , 1977); Paul Kleppner et al., The Evolution of American Electoral
                                Systems (
                                Westport
                            , Conn., 1981), chapter 4.
                  
                     14 H. Wayne Morgan, William McKinley and His America (
                                Syracuse
                            , N.Y., 1963); Robert Kelley, The Transatlantic Persuasion: The
                                Liberal-Democratic Mind in the Age of Gladstone (
                                New York
                            , 1969); Richard E. Welch, Jr., George Frisbie Hoar and the
                                Half-Breed Republicans (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1971); Thomas C. Reeves, Gentleman Boss: The Life of 
                                    Chester
                                 Alan Arthur (
                                New York
                            , 1975); Allan Peskin, Garfield (
                        Kent, Ohio
                     , 1978); Lewis L. Gould, The Presidency of William
                                McKinley (Lawrence, Kans., 1980); Justus D. Doenecke, The Presidencies
                                of James A. Garfield and 
                                    Chester
                                 A. Arthur (Lawrence, Kans., 1981); Geoffrey Blodgett, "The
                            Political Leadership of Grover 
                                Cleveland
                            ," South Atlantic Quarterly, LXXXII (Summer, 1983),
                            288-99; Charles W. Calhoun, Gilded Age Cato: The Life of Walter Q. Gresham (
                                Lexington
                            , Ky., 1988).
                  
                     15 Harry J. Sievers, Benjamin Harrison, Hoosier Warrior:
                                Through the Civil War Years, 1833-1865 (
                                New York
                            , 1952), Benjamin Harrison, Hoosier Statesman: From the Civil War
                                to the White House, 1865-1888 (
                                New York
                            , 1959), and Benjamin Harrison, Hoosier President: The White House
                                and After (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1968).
               
                     Harrison."16 Largely left
                    unanswered, however, is the question as to how Harrison had managed to place himself in so enviable
                    a position. Although Blaine's influence was important in the convention's choice,
                    Harrison was no mere passive receptacle. He was a skillful manager whose nomination came not by
                    happenstance but as the culmination of a well-crafted political career.
            Harrison brought a number of assets to his political ventures, not the least of which was an ancestry
                    that gave him instant name recognition. His great-grandfather and namesake had signed the
                    Declaration of Independence, and his grandfather, William Henry Harrison, had won the presidency in
                    the famed log-cabin campaign of 1840. Although detractors later claimed that Harrison was not man
                    enough to wear his grandfather's hat, his managers in 1888 lost no time in organizing clubs
                    to shout for "young 
                        Tippecanoe
                    ." Harrison also possessed a good mind, a boundless capacity for hard work, and
                    an easy speaking manner, all of which contributed to his great success as a lawyer, which in turn
                    added to his fame and made it financially possible for him to play a conspicuous role in politics.
            Before assuming the presidency, Harrison had had little official experience: reporter of the Indiana
                    State Supreme Court in the 1860s, member of the federal government's Mississippi
                        River Commission from 1879 to 1881, and a single term as 
                        United States
                     senator. Much of his claim to the attention of leaders of the Republican party derived
                    from his excellence as a public speaker. After returning from the Civil War as a brevet brigadier
                    general, he had regularly mounted the campaign stump in Indiana and before long had won a reputation
                    that brought him countless invitations to speak in other states as well. His clear exposition of
                    Republican doctrine in both prepared addresses and extemporaneous talks had fastened the loyalty of
                    masses of voters to the party.
            Nor should one underestimate Harrison's skill as a political organizer in the interest of
                    the Indiana Republican party and his own ambitions. In the words of one close associate,
                    "He was a superb strategist and tactician in political warfare." For over a decade
                    he stood in the shadow of Senator Oliver P. Morton, but after Morton's death in late 1877
                    he quickly emerged as leader of the state party, blanking the popular federal judge Walter Q.
                    Gresham and other potential rivals. At the 1880 Republican National Convention Harrison led the
                    Indiana delegation to a well-timed switch to James A. Garfield, who after his inauguration made
                    Harrison his chief patronage adviser in Indiana. Similarly, in the 1884 convention Harrison
                    abandoned his own favorite-son candidacy at an 
                  
                     16 Homer E. Socolofsky and Allan B. Spetter, The
                                Presidency of Benjamin Harrison (Lawrence, Kans., 1987), ix, 1-2, 7-15, quotations
                            pp. ix, 9.
               
                     opportune moment and threw his support to Blaine in such a
                    manner that earned the friendship of Blaine's friends and left them disposed to return the
                    favor four years later.17
            
            Harrison's organizational skills showed most clearly in his bid for a second term in the
                    Senate after a Democratic reapportionment of Indiana's legislative districts jeopardized
                    his reelection. He labored assiduously to mold the state Republican apparatus into a personal
                    machine, even purchasing a "mimeograph which will enable me to multiply my
                    letters." He urged county leaders to make sure that "no plotters" were
                    nominated for the legislature in 1886 and went so far as to arrange the distribution of campaign
                    funds to capture the purchasable "floating vote" in doubtful counties. Thanks to
                    the gerrymander, the Democrats won a slim majority in the state legislature, but Harrison's
                    vigorous campaign secured for the Republicans a statewide total over three thousand votes larger
                    than the Democrats’. Although Harrison lost his fight to retain his Senate seat, he was
                    satisfied that he had "come out of it with more friends & reputation than ever
                    before." National party leaders such as Blaine and West 
                        Virginia
                    's Stephen B. Elkins had watched his campaign closely, and Senate colleague
                    Preston B. Plumb assured him that he was now "in the line of Presidential
                        promotion."18
            
            As 1888 opened, Harrison's organization remained intact, with the state attorney general
                    Louis T. Michener supervising the quest for national convention delegates. Harrison had little
                    difficulty in beating out Walter Q. Gresham for the Indiana delegation. In other states, as soon as
                    delegates were chosen, they received a free subscription to John C. New's 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal, which boldly touted Harrison's virtues. Meanwhile, Michener and
                    others carried on an extensive correspondence with leaders around the country, emphasizing that
                    among their candidate's many strengths not least was his residence in the doubtful state of
                    Indiana. The Republicans had lost the state elections in 
                        New York
                     in 1887 by seventeen thousand votes, and many believed they had little chance of
                    winning that 
                  
                     17 "The Harrison Campaign for the Nomination in
                            1888," memorandum, Louis T. Michener Papers (Manuscript Division, Library of
                            Congress, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C.). The fullest treatment of Harrison's pre-presidential political
                            career remains Sievers's two works Hoosier Warrior and Hoosier Statesman. See also Donald L. Kinzer, "Benjamin Harrison
                            and the Politics of Availability," in Gentlemen from Indiana: National
                                Party Candidates, 1836-1940, ed. Ralph D. Gray (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1977), 143-54.
                  
                     18 Benjamin Harrison to Eugene Gano Hay, May 5, 1885, Harrison to
                            Louis T. Michener, December 22, 1885, Harrison to L. M. Campbell, February 3, 1886, Harrison
                            to R. S. Taylor, April 9, 1886, Harrison to W. Woodward, April 20, 1886, A. M. Kennedy to
                            Harrison, July 27, 1886, Harrison to Kennedy, July 31, 1886, Stephen B. Elkins to Harrison,
                            November 13, 1886, Preston B. Plumb to Harrison, November 10, 1886, Harrison to Margaret
                            Peltz, November 12, 1886, Benjamin Harrison Papers (Manuscript Division, Library of
                            Congress); Appleton's Annual Cyclopedia and Register of Important
                                Events of the Year 1886 (
                                New York
                            , 1887), 442-43.
               
                     state in 1888. With Harrison at the head of the ticket,
                    Indiana's fifteen electoral votes were assured; all Republicans would have to do was to win
                    their normal northern states plus 
                        Connecticut
                    , and victory would be theirs.19
            
            While Harrison's agents pursued delegates, the candidate himself filled a few well-chosen
                    speaking engagements to remind party leaders of his exceptional campaign skills. His chances
                    received a great boost when Blaine withdrew from the race and told his chief strategist, Elkins,
                    that he thought Harrison could "make the best run." It was generally agreed that
                    the Blaine forces would have great influence in the national convention's deliberations,
                    and Michener flatly told the West Virginian that "we have the right to make some modest
                    claims upon the friends of Mr. Blaine ... because of the high character of our candidate, and the
                    very material support given to Mr. Blaine at a critical juncture in the last convention."
                    Elkins had pursued a flirtation with Harrison in Blaine's interest for several months, and
                    now he told the Hoosier candidate that "in a quiet way, word is being passed around to the
                    Blaine men that you are the choice of a great many of them."20
            
            When the convention opened in late June, Harrison's interests were well-looked after by a
                    tight-knit committee headed by Michener. Also on hand in 
                        Chicago
                     were ten thousand Hoosier volunteers who, Michener later wrote, "thronged the
                    hotels and lodging houses and earnestly, intelligently and persistently presented the arguments in
                    ... [Harrison's] behalf': "his abilities as a vote getter ... his
                    stainless record, oratorical powers, sound judgment, and excellent record in the Senate."
                    Elijah W. Halford, who throughout the spring had been writing enthusiastic Harrison editorials for
                    the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal, took a seat on the convention's committee on resolutions where
                    he made sure that the platform contained no planks that did not square with Harrison's
                        views.21
            
            Despite Blaine's second letter of withdrawal in late May, many of his followers still
                    secretly hoped to nominate him. Their strategy was to divide their considerable delegate strength
                    among several of the announced candidates, to give votes to one or more on successive ballots to
                    test their support, demonstrate their weakness, 
                  
                     19 "The Harrison Campaign for the Nomination in
                            1888," memorandum, Michener Papers; E. W. Halford, "Making a
                            President," Leslie's Illustrated Weekly Newspaper, March
                            8, 1919, p. 332; Appleton's Annual Cyclopedia and Register of
                                Important Events of the Year 1887 (
                                New York
                            , 1888), 552; D. S. Alexander to Harrison, November 13, 1887, James G. Blaine to
                            Harrison, July 19, 1888, Harrison Papers.
                  
                     20 Charles Hedges, ed., Speeches of Benjamin
                            Harrison (
                                New York
                            , 1892), 9-24; Sievers, Hoosier Statesman, 326; Blaine to
                            Elkins, March 1, 1888, in Oscar Doane Lambert, Stephen 
                                    Benton
                                 Elkins: American Foursquare (
                                Pittsburgh
                            , 1955), 120; Michener to Elkins, February 27, 1888, in Sievers, Hoosier Statesman, 320; Elkins to Harrison, February 11, 14, 27, 1888, Harrison
                            Papers.
                  
                     21 "The National Convention of 1888," memorandum,
                            Michener Papers.
               
                     and eliminate them from consideration, and then to swing a
                    deadlocked convention to the Plumed Knight. After the first three ballots showed a wide scattering
                    of votes among fourteen men, with Harrison in fifth place, the Blaine leaders made him the first
                    "beneficiary" of their dubious strategy. For their part, the Hoosiers vowed not to
                    relinquish the advantage thus gained. On the fourth ballot Harrison jumped to second place behind 
                        Ohio
                    's John Sherman. On the next ballot, however, his total declined slightly, but
                    a weekend recess gave his lieutenants time to marshal their forces. On Sunday Blaine sent his
                    irrevocable withdrawal. When balloting resumed on Monday, June 25, Michener and his aides struggled
                    mightily to persuade delegates to stand by Harrison and to attract new ones. Their labors were
                    rewarded. On the eighth ballot Harrison amassed a total of 544 votes, 128 more than the number
                    necessary to win.22
            
            In the general election campaign that followed, party leaders were convinced of the wisdom of the
                    choice, for as Socolofsky and Spetter note, "Harrison wielded the greatest influence
                    himself," through a remarkable series of campaign speeches delivered in his hometown of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . "I am never so well satisfied in a campaign as when we have an issue sharply,
                    clearly, and boldly made," he had once written, and he was determined to have his say in
                    this the most important campaign of his life. But Harrison wisely avoided a grueling speaking trip
                    like Blaine's in 1884. At the end of that trip, the fatigued candidate had failed to catch
                    and repudiate a Protestant minister's snide alliteration against "Rum, Romanism,
                    and Rebellion," which many observers believed had cost him the close election. Instead,
                    Harrison spoke briefly to scores of delegations that came to his home. His managers carefully
                    orchestrated each of these meetings, setting the day and hour for the delegation's visit
                    and editing in advance the chairman's remarks. Reporters were on hand to record
                    Harrison's response, which appeared in newspapers around the nation the next morning.
                    Harrison slept in his own bed yet reached thousands of voters across the country nearly every day of
                    the campaign.23
            
            In his speeches Harrison reiterated the message he had perfected over the years: the Republican party
                    was the party of progress and prosperity, and the Democrats were the party of backwardness and
                    obstruction. The centerpiece of the campaign was 
                  
                     22 A. M. Jones to John Sherman, June 21, 1888, telegram, John Sherman
                            Papers (Manuscript Division, Library of Congress); Halford, "Making a
                            President," 332; Proceedings of the Ninth Republican National
                                Convention (
                                Chicago
                            , 1888), 163-67, 170-71, 182-86, 195-99, 204-205; ‘The National
                            Convention of 1888," memorandum, Michener Papers.
                  
                     23 Socolofsky and Spetter, Presidency of Benjamin
                                Harrison, 11; Hedges, Speeches of Benjamin Harrison, 25-187;
                            Harrison to William H. Trammel, February 6, 1886, Harrison Papers;
                            "Harrison's Speeches in 1888," memorandum, Michener
                        Papers.
               
                     the tariff, and Harrison laid particular stress on
                    protectionism's benefit to labor in keeping wages high relative to those of
                    "pauper" labor abroad. For Harrison this was "the beginning and the end
                    of the tariff question." He also favored restrictions on the importation of contract labor
                    and Chinese coolies. Other components of the party's economic program included subsidies to
                    American streamship lines and the quest for new markets for American products in Latin America, the
                    latter objective to be aided by a modernized navy. Harrison endorsed civil service reform and called
                    for legislation to deal "fairly and effectively" with the trusts. Advocating a
                    generous pension policy for Union veterans, he declared, in what became a famous phrase, that
                    "it is no time now to use an apothecary's scale to weigh the rewards of the men
                    who saved the country." He favored "liberal and direct appropriations"
                    for education, arguing that the "Nation, not less than the States, is dependent for
                    prosperity and security upon the intelligence and morality of the people." On the sectional
                    question, without reverting to the virulent "Bloody Shirt" oratory of former
                    years, Harrison lamented the suppression of the black vote in the South and asserted that
                    "any disturbance of the suffrage anywhere directly affects us all." Underscoring
                    the essential nationalism of the Republican program, Harrison lauded the party as "an
                    American party in that it has set American interests always to the front."24
            
            The influence of Harrison's great effort on the outcome is, of course, impossible to gauge.
                    President 
                        Cleveland
                    , by contrast, said virtually nothing in the course of the campaign. Shortly before the
                    election the Republican camp in Indiana was rocked by the revelation of a letter in which the
                    national party treasurer, William W. Dudley, himself a Hoosier, allegedly outlined for county
                    chairmen a formula for the systematic purchase of votes. Scholars disagree over the significance of
                    the Dudley incident, but as Socolofsky and Spetter note, "The big issue was still the fight
                    over the tariff." Most voters made their choices based on that and other issues and,
                    perhaps most important of all, long-standing loyalty to one party or the other. Harrison narrowly
                    won both Indiana and 
                        New York
                     and the election. He carried with him a majority in both houses of Congress, a
                    circumstance which, Blaine assured him, gave him "the amplest power for a useful, strong
                    and impressive Administration.25
            
            
               
                  24 Hedges, Speeches of Benjamin Harrison, 25-187,
                        quotations pp. 59, 71, 179.
               
                  25
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Sentinel October 31, 1888; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, November 1, 3, 1888; James L. Baumgardner, "The 1888
                        Presidential Election: How Corrupt?" Presidential Studies Quarterly,
                        XIV (Summer, 1984); Peter H. Argersinger, "New Perspectives on Election Fraud in the
                        Gilded Age," Political Science Quarterly, C (Winter, 1985-1986),
                        677-70; Socolofsky and Spetter, Presidency of Benjamin Harrison, 14;
                        Historical Statistics of the 
                            United States
                        , 1079, 1083; Blaine to Harrison, November 9, 1888, in The
                            Correspondence between Benjamin Harrison and James G. Blaine, 1882-1893, ed. Albert T.
                        Volwiler (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1940), 41.
            
            
            
               HARRISON'S RAINY INAUGURATION
               
               Courtesy of the Library of Congress, 
                            Washington
                        , D. C.
            
            
            In one of their best chapters Socolofsky and Spetter describe in some detail Harrison's
                    careful selection of a Cabinet. For secretary of state he chose Blaine. Although he never reached
                    the presidency, the 
                        Maine
                     statesman was in many ways the dominant political figure of his age, and his selection
                    as head of the Cabinet was more or less inevitable. Yet Harrison shrewdly waited long enough before
                    making the offer to signal that it came as the president's gift and not as
                    Blaine's right. The rest of the slots went to men who were competent and honest, but not as
                    well-known nationally as Blaine. As the authors note, Harrison showed a bias toward men cut from the
                    same cloth as himself. All were Presbyterians, most were lawyers, several had seen service in the
                    Union army. Like Harrison, they represented "the honest, decent, solid Republicans all
                    across the nation." Yet the selections displeased many state party leaders who had had
                    other candidates in mind. Particularly put off were the national party chairman, Senator Matthew S.
                    Quay of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , and 
                        New York
                    's "Easy Boss," Thomas C. Platt, who felt great personal
                    disappointment at not receiving the treasury portfolio which he believed Harrison's
                    lieutenants had promised him at the 
                        Chicago
                     convention.26
            
            When Harrison tackled the herculean task of filling lower offices, the criticism that had greeted his
                    Cabinet choices multiplied a hundredfold. For the first time in a generation a Republican
                    administration was taking over from the Democrats, and office-seekers were legion. Of course, what
                    was derisively known as the "spoils system" was as old as the Republic and was not
                    without its own internal logic. Politicians like 
                        Iowa
                    's James S. Clarkson argued that a president should be served by men of his own
                    party who agreed with his policies, but the farther down the pyramid of the bureaucracy one moved
                    from the policy makers at the top, the less force that argument had. The burgeoning number of
                    offices after the Civil War inevitably gave rise to a vigorous reform lobby that emphasized merit
                    over partisanship in the selection and promotion of civil service employees.27
            
            As a senator, Harrison had played the recommendation game craftily, but as president, he quickly
                    concluded that the patronage "power" was really more of a curse. In his inaugural
                    he noted that "honorable party service will certainly not be esteemed by me a
                    disqualification for public office," but he urged those giving advice to "exercise
                    consideration" and give him "time for inquiry and deliberation." His plea
                    was ignored. Socolofsky and Spetter observe that in his first year and a half in office, he was
                    forced to devote 
                  
                     26 Socolofsky and Spetter, Presidency of Benjamin
                                Harrison, 19-29, quotations p. 29.
                  
                     27 James S. Clarkson, "The Politician and the
                            Pharisee," North American Reuiew, CLII (May, 1891),
                        613-23.
               
                     four to six hours each working day to matters of patronage.
                    Even so, the effort won him few friends. For every successful applicant as many as a score or more
                    were disappointed and inclined to hold a grudge. State party leaders could not understand why so
                    many of their favorites failed to win places.28
            
            The authors note that Harrison's allegedly brusque manner with applicants and their
                    advocates soon gained him "the reputation as the White House iceberg, with all the
                    attractiveness of a dripping cave." Other scholars have cited this contemporary criticism
                    of Harrison's manner, but the charge misses the much more significant point that in many
                    ways Harrison's administration occupied an intersection between an older politics rooted in
                    personal relationships and a newer approach emphasizing substance and efficiency. Knowledgeable
                    close observers recorded that Harrison was not at heart a cold man. To be sure, he was "not
                    effusive," but his private secretary recalled that "few men had quicker, warmer,
                    or more delicate sympathies." What set Harrison apart was his ability to separate his
                    personal life and feelings from his official life and responsibilities. He adhered to a political
                    style that stressed duty and accomplishment rather than a club-like camaraderie. Moreover, as
                    president, he believed the people would hold him ultimately responsible for the character of his
                    appointees, and he could not therefore blithely name whoever the bosses suggested. He later
                    acknowledged that many applicants for office were "generally respectable and worthy men...
                    entitled to a respectful and kindly hearing," but he argued that "at the end of
                    one hundred days of this work the President should not be judged too harshly if he shows a little
                    wear, a little loss of effusiveness, and even a hunted expression in his eyes." If Harrison
                    drummed his fingers while a senator talked about places for his "people," it was
                    because so many more important matters demanded his attention, and he knew that "the urgent
                    public business ... [must be] postponed or done at night with a jaded mind." Yet, as he
                    wrote after leaving the White House, in that era of personal politics the ultimate fate of the
                    public business itself was often at stake, for "no President can conduct a successful
                    administration without the support of Congress, and this matter of appointments, do what he will,
                    often weakens that support."29
            As this last remark suggests, Harrison believed that the president was not solely or merely an
                    administrative officer but that he 
                  
                     28 James D. Richardson, A Compilation of the Messages and
                                Papers of the Presidents, 1789-1897 (10 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1896-1899), IX, 11; Socolofsky and Spetter, Presidency of
                                Benjamin Harrison, 31-34.
                  
                     29 Socolofsky and Spetter, Presidency of Benjamin
                                Harrison, 34, 77-80; Morgan, From Hayes to McKinley, 330-31;
                            Williams, Years of Decision, 59-60; E. W. Halford, "General
                            Harrison's Attitude toward the Presidency," The Century
                                Magazine, LXXXIV (June, 1912), 307, 309 Thomas J. Morgan, "Beqjamin
                            Harrison: President of the 
                                United States
                            ," Review of Reviews, VI (July, 1892), 32; Benjamin Harrison, This Country of Ours (
                                New York
                            , 1897), 111-12, 166-68, 179-80.
               
                     should also take part in setting and advancing a legislative
                    agenda. In their preface Socolofsky and Spetter contend that "Harrison, although
                    recognizing congressional supremacy in legislative matters, worked diligently from his White House
                    office to fashion legislation that he could accept. Harrison threatened but seldom used the veto, he
                    had White House visits with congressional leaders as well as other members of Congress, and he
                    enunciated his program in annual messages to Congress and the nation." Thus disputing the
                    image of Harrison as a figurehead or cipher, the authors make one of their most important points
                    about his presidency, and it is regrettable that they do not devote more of their text to
                    substantiating it. They mention Harrison's efforts in their case-by-case review of the
                    history of the Fifty-first Congress, but one would like to have seen a fuller discussion of the
                    specific actions he took to influence legislation.30
            
            Although the first session of Congress would not get under way until December, 1889, Harrison set the
                    outlines of his program in his inaugural address. He played up the centennial theme, noting with
                    satisfaction the contrast between the thirteen states of 
                        Washington
                    's day-"weak in everything except courage and the love of
                    liberty"—and the thirty-eight "populous and prosperous" states
                    of his own time. Invoking the sanction of the Founding Fathers for the Republican economic program,
                    he noted that the nationalist drive for economic independence and self-sufficiency that had fueled
                    the formation of the Constitution in the 1780s now had its counterpart in the "revival at
                    the end of the century of the same patriotic interest in the preservation and development of
                    domestic industries and the defence of our working people against injurious foreign
                    competition." He urged southerners to accept the protective tariff as a vehicle for
                    diversity in their stagnant economy and to stop permitting "the prejudices and paralysis of
                    slavery ... to hang upon the skirts of progress." He promised a dignified foreign policy.
                    Citing the need to reduce the treasury surplus "without breaking down our protective
                    tariff," he advocated expenditures for a stronger navy, support for American commerce
                    through subsidies to steamship lines, and more generous pension legislation. On the question of the
                    suppression of the black vote in the South, he warned that "no power vested in Congress or
                    in the Executive to secure or perpetuate … [the right to vote] should remain unused upon
                        occaion."31
            
            When Congress assembled, Harrison used his first annual message to elaborate his proposals, adding
                    calls for safe currency legislation, 
                  
                     30 Socolofsky and Spetter, Presidency of Benjamin
                                Harrison, x, 48, 50, 58, 64, 67. 71-72. 74. 120.
                  
                     31 Richardson, Messages and Papers of the
                            Presidents, IX, 5-14, quotations pp. 7-8, 12-13.
               
                     coastal defenses, internal improvements, laws for railway
                    employee safety, aid to education, and "penal legislation" to deal with trusts,
                    which he labeled "dangerous conspiracies against the public good." Taking his
                    legislative role seriously, he closed by asserting, "The legislation which I have
                    suggested. .. will promote the peace and honor of our country and the prosperity and security of the
                    people." The prospects for success were excellent. For the first time in fourteen years the
                    Republicans controlled both houses of Congress as well as the presidency. Harrison and his
                    colleagues firmly believed that if they governed wisely and kept their promises, as 
                        Massachusetts
                     Senator George F. Hoar put it, "we can see no good reason why we may not
                    expect the Republican party to keep the control of the executive, legislative, and judicial power of
                    the country for another twenty-five years."32
            
            The optimism seemed justified, for, indeed, the first session of the Fifty-first Congress was among
                    the most productive in history. Through the implementation of new rules in the House of
                    Representatives, Speaker Thomas B. Reed thwarted Democratic efforts at obstructionism and enabled
                    the small Republican majority to join the Senate in enacting important components of the
                    party's program. One of them, the McKinley Tariff Act, killed three birds with one stone.
                    First, it would help eliminate the Treasury surplus by placing several items, most notably sugar, on
                    the free list and by raising duties on others to levels that would discourage their importation and
                    thereby reduce revenues. Second, by raising the average rates to a peace-time record high of 49.5
                    percent, Republicans kept their promise to afford protection to American producers and workers. And
                    third, the law empowered the president to negotiate reciprocity treaties with foreign countries to
                    expand the market for American goods. Harrison followed the months-long tariff debate closely,
                    intervening at a crucial point with a special message to break the legislative logjam, joining
                    Blaine in a public relations campaign for the reciprocity principle, and negotiating with
                    congressmen the final form reciprocity took in the law. The resulting legislation was as much a
                    triumph for Harrison and Blaine as for Ways and Means Chairman William McKinley. In the months that
                    followed, the administration negotiated more than ten reciprocity arrangements with foreign
                        nations.33
            
            The session witnessed other landmark legislation. Harrison lobbied against any measure for the free
                    coinage of silver and aided 
                  
                     32
                            Ibid., 32-58; George F. Hoar, "Are the Republicans in to
                            Stay?" North American Review, CXLIX (November, 1889), 617.
                  
                     33 Socolofsky and Spetter, Presidency of Benjamin
                                Harrison, 49-52; Williams, Years of Decision, 25-28, 37-40; Richardson, Messages and Papers of the Presdents, IX, 74; Harrison to Blaine, July 17,
                            23, 1890, in Volwiler, Correspondence between Harrison and Blaine, 109,
                            112.
               
                    
                    
                  SOUVENIR OF HARRISON'S INAUGURATION
                  
                  Courtesy of the Library of Congress, 
                                Washington
                            . D. C.
               
                     in the passage of a compromise measure, the Sherman Silver
                    Purchase Act. The law mollified silverites by calling for the government purchase of virtually all
                    the country's monthly silver production with silver certificates. It was acceptable to
                    anti-inflationists in that it averted free coinage and stipulated that the certificates were
                    redeemable in gold as well as silver, thereby permitting the Treasury to continue to make gold the
                    ultimate basis of the nation's money.34 On July 2, 1890, the president
                    signed the Sherman Anti-Trust Act, which outlawed combinations in restraint of trade. Weak
                    enforcement and restrictive court decisions initially retarded this law's effect, but once
                    clarified by additional legislation early in the twentieth century, the Sherman Act had more
                    long-lasting impact than any other law of the Harrison administratin.35 Of more
                    immediate concern to many Americans, however, was the Dependent Pension Act which granted a monthly
                    pension to any Union veteran who had seen ninety days' service and was currently disabled,
                    for whatever reason, from supporting himself. Noting that many such men had been "dependent
                    upon public aid," Harrison had argued that it did not "consist with the national
                    honor that they shall continue to subsist upon the local relief given indiscriminately to paupers
                    instead of upon the special and generous provision of the nation they served." Through the
                    Pension Act, Harrison and Congress inaugurated a national welfare program for a substantial class of
                    American citizens, and pension totals soon surpassed $100 million per annum.35
            
            Bowing to pressure from Harrison and Postmaster General John Wanamaker, Congress passed legislation
                    banning lottery companies from using the mails. The Meat Inspection Act of 1890 provided for the
                    inspection of meat to be exported and authorized the president to bar the importation of goods from
                    countries that discriminated against the importation of American products. The session's
                    chief failure was the defeat of the Blair Education Bill, aimed primarily at providing federal funds
                    to southern states for the education of the freedmen and their descendants. In July, with strong
                    backing from Harrison, the House of Representatives passed Henry Cabot Lodge's bill to
                    counter the disfranchisement of blacks through the policing of congressional elections by federal
                    courts and bipartisan supervisory boards. Mislabeling it the "Force Bill,"
                    Democrats demanded delay of its consideration in the Senate until 
                  
                     34 Socolofsky and Spetter, Presidency of Benjamin
                                Harrison, 55-60; Sievere, Hoosier President, 145-48.
                  
                     35 Socolofsky and Spetter, Presidency of Benjamin
                                Harrison, 52-55; Hans B. Thorelli, The Federal Antitrust Policy:
                                Origination of an American Tradition (
                                Baltimore
                            , 1955).
                  
                     36
                            
                                Salisbury
                            , "Republican Party and Positive Government," 30; Richardson,
                                Messages and Papers of the Presidents, IX, 50.
               
                     the second session in exchange for permitting more expeditious
                    passage of the tariff bill. Even so, Republicans ended the session confident they would secure
                    passage of Lodge's bill at the next sesion.37
            
            Having passed nearly four hundred new laws, the first session of the Fifty-first Congress ended on
                    October 1, 1890, on an upbeat note. Yet with a scant month left before the midterm congressional
                    elections, Democrats had already thrown Republicans on the defensive, charging them with
                    extravagance and "centralization." The McKinley Tariff, they said, would bring
                    high prices for consumers, and the "Force Bill" raised the specter of a revived
                    Reconstruction. In several states in the Midwest, Republican support for prohibition legislation and
                    laws mandating the use of the English language in parochial schools cost the party votes among
                    immigrants. In the West it suffered from defections to the Farmers' Alliance movement. When
                    polls showed Republicans in trouble, Harrison took a week-long, 2,800 mile,
                    "non-political" speaking tour through the nation's midsection in
                    mid-October, but to no avail. The elections dealt the Republicans a devastating defeat; although
                    they retained control of the Senate, they were reduced in the House to a mere 88 seats, while the
                    Democrats took 235.38
            
            Democratic Senator John G. Carlisle attributed the 1890 result to "the general radical and
                    revolutionary policy inaugurated by the Republican party as soon as it found itself in complete
                    control of the government." Republicans found the result not only galling but supremely
                    ironic, for their accomplishments had led them to believe, as Henry Cabot Lodge put it, that
                    "the Republican party never since the war deserved so well." Republicans returned
                    for the final session of the Fifty-first Congress dispirited, but they did pass some further
                    progressive legislation, including a steamship mail subsidy and the Land Revision Act, under which
                    Harrison set aside 22 million acres of forest reserve. A coalition of western silver Republicans and
                    Democrats killed the elections bill in the Senate, thereby handing Harrison his bitterest
                    legislative defeat. To the end of his term he continued to decry the suppression of the free ballot
                    in the South.39
            
            
               
                  37 Socolofsky and Spetter, Presidency of Benjamin
                        Harrison, 60-63, 65-69, 73-74; Edward McPherson, A Handbook of Politics for 1892 (
                            Washington
                        , D. C., 1892), 57-59; John C. Spooner to Captain E. Enos, September 6, 1890, John
                        C. Spooner Papera (Manuscript Division, Library of Congress).
               
                  38 Socolofsky and Spetter, Presidency of Benjamin
                        Harrison, 76, 89-91, 169-71; Williams, Years of Decision, 44-50; Hedges,
                            Speeches of Benjamin Harrison, 234-86.
               
                  39 John G. Carlisle, "The Recent Election," North American Reuiew, CLI (December, 1890), 642; Henry Cabot Lodge, quoted in
                        Williams, Years of Decision, 53; McPherson, A Handbook of
                            Politics for 1892, 34-43; Socolofsky and Spetter, Presidency of Benjamin
                            Harrison, 64-65, 69-73; Richardson, Messages and Papers of the
                        Presidents, IX, 210-11, 331-32.
            
            
            With the prospect for forward movement in domestic affairs brought to an end by the elections,
                    foreign affairs loomed larger in the second half of Harrison's term. Socolofsky and Spetter
                    tell this story well, although they perhaps devote too much space to the deteriorating relations
                    between the president and Secretary of State Blaine. Drawing on Spetter's previous work and
                    that of others, the authors make a good case for the assertion that Harrison played the dominant
                    role and emerged as "the first president in the post-Civil War era who attempted to
                    coordinate the strategic, diplomatic, and economic factors of 
                        United States
                     foreign policy."40
            
            In 1889 the administration hosted the first Pan-American conference, largely as a public relations
                    device for the expansion of American commerce southward—a goal materially advanced by the
                    reciprocity treaties negotiated later. That year also witnessed the negotiation of the General Act
                    of Berlin which established a joint protectorate for Samoa and moderated the rivalry among the
                            
                  United States, Germany
               , and Britain for influence over that South Pacific nation. Similarly,
                    the Bering Sea fur seal controversy with 
                        Canada
                     and Britain moved closer to resolution with the signing of an arbitration treaty in
                    early 1892. Harrison safely, if somewhat bellicosely, maintained the national honor in a dispute
                    with 
                        Chile
                     over the murder of American servicemen in a 
                        Valparaiso
                     saloon brawl and in another with 
                        Italy
                     over the lynching of eleven Italian-Americans accused of murder in 
                        New Orleans
                    . In its final month the administration negotiated a treaty of annexation with a
                    revolutionary government in 
                        Hawaii
                    , but the pact was killed by the succeeding 
                        Cleveland
                     administration. All told, Harrison contributed a good deal to the "outward
                    thrust" in American foreign relations in the late nineteenth century, and the authors
                    demonstrate that "the president stimulated the national self-assertion that led the 
                        United States
                     inevitably toward the dramatic events of 1898."41
            
            One of the longest, but unfortunately least successful, of this book's chapters chronicles
                    Harrison's "Presidential Travels." Harrison got out of 
                        Washington
                     more than most presidents of his era, and his gift for speaking served him well in
                    countless speeches to a variety of audiences around the country. Socolofsky and Spetter give too
                    much space to the details of his trips and too little to analyzing the content of his addresses and
                    the significance of his travels in the evolution of the office of president. Although Harrison
                    sometimes touted the specifics of the Republican program on these occasions, he more often assumed
                    the role of a kind of secular priest of an American civil religion. He stressed the ideals of
                    patriotism, republicanism, equality, family, order, spiritual hope, and virtuous 
                  
                     40 Socolofsky and Spetter, Presidency of Benjamin
                                Harrison, 112.
                  
                     41
                            Ibid., 109-56, 200-206, quotation p. 126.
               
                    
                    
                  CARTOON FROM FRANK LESLIE'S
                            Illustrated Weekly, AUGUST, 1892. DURING
                                THE CAMPAIGN BETWEEN BENJAMIN HARRISON AND FORMER PRESIDENT GROVER CLEVELAND.
                  
                  Courtesy of the Library of Congress. 
                                Washington
                            , D. C.
               
                     citizenship, as well as economic prosperity, and wove these
                    strands together into a fabric of national faith. Recognizing long before Theodore Roosevelt the
                    great utility of the presidency as a "bully pulpit," Harrison skillfully invoked
                    the tenets of a civil religion that embraced both spiritual and secular goals to build a consensus
                    behind the Republican party's vision of the good society.42
            
            The public generally greeted Harrison warmly in his travels, but he still had many enemies among the
                    political bosses in his own party offended by his patronage policies. These men and others who
                    bridled at his style of leadership sought to block his bid for a second term, but Harrison
                    maintained sufficient hold on party machinery to secure renomination in 1892. Even so, his chances
                    in the general election, where he fought a rematch with 
                        Cleveland
                    , were anything but cheering. The same forces that had defeated the party in 1890
                    operated two years later. Harrison lost the popular vote by nearly 400,000 and the electoral college
                    by a margin of 277 to 145, with 22 electors going to Populist James B. Weaver.43
            
            The next month Harrison defended his administration in his last annual message to Congress, giving a
                    detailed accounting of what he perceived to be the great prosperity wrought by Republican policies.
                    His portrait was somewhat overdrawn, in light of the distressed condition of many farmers and
                    laborers in the land. Still, he predicted disaster should the Democrats undo the Republican program.
                    "Retrogression would be a crime," he warned.44
            
            Republican leaders were surprisingly sanguine after the 1892 loss. George F. Hoar spoke for many when
                    he said that the "recent defeat is due to the fact that the public mind is not yet
                    sufficiently educated to receive and understand what is best for the Republic. What is best, and not
                    worst in the Republican party, has led to its temporary unpopularity. This state of things is to be
                    remedied, not by lowering our ideals, or by yielding to the suggestions of bad men, but by remaining
                    steadfast until the people recover from their present delusions." The Democrats had won
                    both houses of Congress as well as the presidency, and now the nation would witness a fair test of
                    their more negative approach to government. "If they carry out the policies which they have
                    declared," said 
                        Wisconsin
                     John Coit Spooner, "they will be overwhelmed.... Every factory which shuts
                    down will help the republican party; every man whose 
                  
                     42
                            Ibid., 157-83; Charles W. Calhoun, "The Elder as Statesman:
                            Benjamin Harrison and the Civil Religion of the Republican Party," paper presented
                            at the Great Lakes History Conference, April, 1986; Jeffrey K. Tulis, The Rhetorical
                            Presidency (
                                Princeton
                            , N.J., 1987), 64-66, 86.
                  
                     43 Socolofsky and Spetter, Presidency of Benjamin
                                Harrison, 195-200.
                  
                     44 Richardson, Messages and Papers of the
                            Presidents, IX, 306-32, quotation p. 332.
               
                     wages are reduced, and every man who is thrown out of
                    employment will help the republican party. ...All we have to do is wait."45
            
            Republicans did not have to wait long. The Panic of 1893, in many ways the inevitable conclusion to
                    years of overheated boom, brought a devastating depression. The Democrats' seeming
                    inability to lessen its effects brought an astounding political reversal in the congressional
                    elections of 1894. Republicans went from being in the minority in the House of Representatives by 91
                    seats to holding the majority position by 139 seats. In the presidential race two years later many
                    Republicans wanted to bring Harrison out of retirement, but he declined; and the 1896 nomination
                    went to William McKinley who campaigned on essentially the same principles, especially
                    protectionism, that Harrison had espoused. McKinley's smashing victory over William
                    Jennings Bryan and his free silver panacea represented a kind of vindication for the Harrison
                    administration. Moreover, as Socolofsky and Spetter note, "McKinley, in his own way, would
                    use Harrison as a role model for a meaningful presidential role in legislation and would establish
                    the foundation for the power of twentieth-century presidents." Thanks to the return of
                    prosperity early in McKinley's term, the great political migrations of 1894 and 1896 became
                    fixed, and the Republicans remained the nation's majority party for a generation. Thus, as
                    matters turned out, the 
                        Cleveland
                     administration, rooted as it was in the fading tradition of localism and minimal
                    government, had been the aberration. The Harrison administration's legacy of activism lived
                    on and set the pattern for the country's entry into the twentieth century.46
            
            The University Press of 
                        Kansas
                     is to be commended for its Presidency series launched several years
                    ago. Among the chief benefits of the series is that it has made conveniently accessible to scholars
                    and students the history of administrations that have largely been neglected. This is particularly
                    true of Harrison's term. In its analytical treatment of the Harrison presidency, Socolofsky
                    and Spetter's work supersedes the semi-popular Sievers biography and is, therefore, one of
                    the most useful volumes thus far published in the series. The book's chief defect is
                    stylistic; too often bad writing detracts from the story being told. Moreover, conforming to the
                    series format, the book is relatively short, and many readers will question the priorities the
                    authors applied in using their space. 
                  
                     45 George F. Hoar to Wharton Barker, November 19, 1892, Wharton Barker
                            Papers (Manuscript Division, Library of Congress); Spooner to J. T. Murphy, November 26,
                            1892, Spooner Papers; Henry Cabot Lodge, "Outlook and Duty of the Republican
                            Party," Forum, XV (April, 1893), 250-58.
                  
                     46 Williams, Years of Decision, 76-127; Historical Statistics of the 
                                    United States
                                , 1083; Sievers, Hoosier President, 257-61;
                            Socolofsky and Spetter, Presidency of Benjamin Harrison, x.
               
                     But in a sense, the aim of the Presidency
                    volumes is to be suggestive, not exhaustive. Socolofsky and Spetter's work will challenge
                    historians to pursue more closely a variety of questions related to Harrison's term,
                    including specific issues in domestic and foreign affairs, the nature of political conflict in the
                    Gilded Age, the evolution of the Republican party, and the development of the office of president on
                    the eve of the Progressive Era. For now, they and the 
                        Kansas
                     Press have made an important contribution. They have brought Benjamin Harrison and his
                    presidency out of the shadows and have shed much light on an era whose long-term impact modern
                    scholars increasingly recognize.
         
         
         
            Instructions from the Ohio Valley to French Emigrants
            
                    Edited by Phyllis Michaux
                    *
                
            On August 10, 1816, French exile Marie Barbe François Lakanal wrote a letter to a nephew
                    in Grand Quevy, Netherlands, now part of 
                        Belgium
                    ,1 urging him to join her family in America. She and her husband,
                    Joseph Lakanal, had recently settled in Gallatin County, 
                        Kentucky
                    , near 
                        Vevay
                    , Indiana. She wasted no time on niceties, but immediately began to
                    explain—for sixteen pages—what he needed to do to make the journey and how the
                    family would provide for him when he arrived. Fearing that an earlier letter might not have reached
                    him, she put this one in the care of two immigrants who were about to return to 
                        France
                     to bring their families to the 
                        United States
                    . The letter of August 10, and at least two others, reached her nephews Jean
                    François and Pierre Hennebert and are now in the possession of Adhemar Durieu,
                    great-great-grandson of Jean François.2 All of the letters encourage
                    the two nephews and their families to come to America, but the one printed below offers the
                    contemporary reader an unusually detailed glimpse of the mechanics of the voyage across the
                    Atlantic, from the best way to book passage to what kind of bread should be taken aboard ship. Marie
                    Barbe's careful instructions to her nephew about 
                  
                     * Phyllis Michaux is a genealogist who lived in 
                                France
                             for a number of years as the wife of a French citizen. She and her husband were
                            given a copy of the following document by Adhemar Durieu. She found the letter so
                            interesting that she offered to translate it and seek publication in an American historical
                            journal. Durieu readily agreed. Michaux then transcribed the original, with the help of her
                            daughter, and prepared a translation. The staff of the Indiana Magazine of
                                History wishes to thank James C. Klotter of the 
                                Kentucky
                             Historical Society and Carl Bogardus, 
                        Warsaw, Kentucky
                     , for
                            their tremendous help in providing information about Gallatin County in the early nineteenth
                            century.
                  
                     1 Until 1815, Grand Quevy, near Mons, was part of 
                                France
                            . At the Congress of 
                                Vienna
                            , this territory was granted to the Kingdom of the Netherlands.
                  
                     2 Adhemar Durieu of Quevy-le-Grand, 
                                Belgium
                            , kindly granted the Indiana Magazine of History permission to
                            publish Marie Barbe Francois Lakanal's letter of August 10, 1816.
               
                     whether to land at 
                        Baltimore
                     or 
                        Philadelphia
                    , how long it would take by foot and by stage to get to 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , what to buy in 
                        Pittsburgh
                     and what it should cost, reveal her practicality and concern for her family. Finally,
                    the letter sheds light on the Lakanal family's life in the Ohio
                    Valley.
            Marie Barbe François Lakanal may have had good reason to ask her nephews to come to
                    America: she, her two daughters, Alexandrine and Josephine, and her husband fled 
                        France
                     for America in 1816 with other exiles threatened with execution after the restoration
                    of the Bourbon monarchy. Her warning to her nephew, "You should not divulge that you are
                    coming to this country to settle because the government does not like to think that any country is
                    better than theirs," may reflect the sensitivity of the new government to implied
                    criticism—or it may reflect instead her anxiety about her nephews' safety in a
                    French border region in post-Congress of 
                        Vienna
                     Europe.
            Born in 1766 in the French farming village of Gogniès-Chaussée, Marie Barbe
                    witnessed in her lifetime radical social dislocation and violent political upheaval, sometimes at
                    much closer range than many of her contemporaries. Joseph Lakanal was born in the province of
                    Ariège in 1762 as Joseph Lacanal, but he changed the spelling of his name to distinguish
                    himself from his three brothers, who were royalists. The Lakanals were more than passive observers
                    of the French Revolution. Joseph was a deputy to the Convention that governed 
                        France
                     from 1792 until October, 1795, and he voted for the execution of Louis XVI. He received
                    a Doctor of Arts degree at the University of Angers and became a distinguished Latinist and
                    educator. After the overthrow of Louis XVI, he prepared an organizational plan for a public school
                    system and was instrumental in the conservation of Louis XVI's gardens, now part of the
                    Museum of Natural History in 
                        Paris
                    .3
            
            When, after the fall of Napoleon, the Bourbon monarchy was restored in 1814, Lakanal and others who
                    had participated in the Revolution were condemned to death as regicides.4 The
                    family went into exile in Gogniès-Chaussée, which became Dutch territory after
                    the Congress of 
                        Vienna
                    , and remained there until they emigrated to the 
                        United States
                     in 1816.
            Although the historical record has few letters of such detail describing the process of immigration,
                    overland travel, and settlement, it would be wrong to assume that Marie Barbe's letter
                    typifies the pioneer experience in the early nineteenth century. Unlike most early western settlers,
                    the Lakanals must have been very 
                  
                     3
                     Nouveau Larousse Classique: Dictionnaire
                            Encyclopedique (
                                Paris
                            , 1957), see "Joseph Lakanal."
                  
                     4 Joseph G. Rosengarten, French Colonists and Exiles in
                                the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1907), 159-61.
               
                     prosperous. Marie Barbe's letters reflect the
                    comfortable economic position of her family. She speaks of obtaining lands for her nephews in lots
                    of 540 acres, quite a large amount for 
                        Kentucky
                     in 1816, in addition to the prime land the family already held directly on the
                        Ohio River.5 Her request that her nephew hire four
                    indentured servants further reflects the family's economic well-being.
            Other aspects of the letter, however, show the ways the family shared the pioneer experience.
                    Although some of Marie Barbe's requests for things from home seem frivolous, her lists of
                    seeds, cuttings of familiar fruit trees not available in the new territory, wooden
                    shoes—because "the dew is heavy"—and finer shoes made of
                    green moroccan leather, ring true with the experience of several generations of people who left home
                    for rougher territory and missed what they had left behind.6
            
            Historians have few letters of this kind, and women in particular are often silent in the documentary
                    record. By writing to her nephews in such detail, Marie Barbe offers the contemporary reader an
                    intimate, lively, and intelligent account of the process of early nineteenth century immigration and
                    of western settlement, and an understanding of how crucial women were to the practical and economic
                    life of the family. Although Joseph Lakanal was the family's main actor on the historical
                    stage of the French Revolution, it is Marie Barbe François Lakanal who has left
                    contemporary historians and readers this vivid record of the family's life in exile.
            
               
                  5 After 
                            Kentucky
                         became a state in 1792, the price of land increased. Boundaries of plots of land
                        were surveyed to meet the wishes of the buyer. By 1816, Gallatin County would have been fairly
                        well settled, and the only tillable soil would have been prime land along creek beds and the
                        river. See Robert S. Cotterill, History of Pioneer 
                                Kentucky
                            
                   (
                            Cincinnati
                        , 1917).
               
                  6 See Logan Esarey, The Indiana Home (
                            Crawfordsville
                        , Ind., 1943) and R. Carlyle Buley, The Old Northwest: Pioneer Period,
                            1815-1840 (2 vols., 
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind., 1950), I, chapter IV, for discussions of the settlement of Indiana in this
                        period.
            
            
            
                    Letter From Marie Barbe François Lakanal
                    1
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        From Gallatin County2 in 
                                        Kentucky
                                     this 10th of August 1816, 
                                        United States
                                     of America.
                        My Dear Nephew:
                        Fearing that the letter which I wrote to you the first of this month will be delayed
                                    or will not reach you, I take advantage of two gentlemen who have come to this
                                    region to stay with one of their aunts and who leave for 
                                        France
                                     to get their families and their father, aged eighty-five. These
                                    gentlemen arrived here fifteen days ago and will return this fall. Their destination
                                    is Bordeaux. This port is too far from you for you to return together. At the end of
                                    this letter, I will give you the information they have given to me.
                        I urge you to come with one of your brothers and your cousin Léopole. When
                                    you arrive we will give you forty acres of land that you can cultivate for five or
                                    six years. This will be enough time for you to raise your animals and learn the
                                    language of the country as well as what is needed to run a big farm. When you have
                                    enough money my husband will obtain one or two lots of land from Congress for you.
                                    These lots are of about 540 acres.3 There will be five good
                                    years to pay for them, so that having raised your animals and having some money
                                    saved to pay farm hands, you will easily be able to pay for this acquisition with
                                    the product of these first five 
                              
                                 1 Marie Barbe François Lakanal, August 10,
                                            1816. It is unclear to which nephew Marie Barbe wrote this letter. This
                                            letter, and two others written by Lakanal to her nephews, are in the
                                            possession of Adhemar Durieu, Quevy-le-Grand, 
                                                Belgium
                                            . Phyllis Michaux translated the work into English;
                                            Lakanal's spelling of proper names has been changed to conform with
                                            modern usage. For example, Lakanal mentions Arisbourg; it
                                            appears in the translation as 
                                                Harrisburg
                                            . The author has made every attempt in the translation from the
                                            French to preserve the sense and style of the original.
                              
                                 2 Lakanal gives her mailing address at the end of the
                                            letter as 
                                                Vevay
                                            , Indiana. The 1820 
                                                Kentucky
                                             census, however, lists Joseph Lakanal as a resident of Gallatin
                                            County, 
                                                Kentucky
                                            , and Lakanal wrote her letter from Gallatin County. It seems
                                            likely that the family settled near Ghent, 
                                                Kentucky
                                            , the town directly opposite 
                                                Vevay
                                             across the Ohio River. Ghent was not
                                            established until 1814, and 
                                                Vevay
                                             had had a post office for six and a half years at the time of
                                            Lakanal's writing. A ferry ran between the two towns. U.S., Fourth
                                            Census, 1820, Population Schedules for Gallatin County, 
                                                Kentucky
                                            . Carl Bogardus, 
                                    Warsaw, Kentucky
                                 , conversation with editor, February 18, 1988.
                                            See also Perret Dufour, The Swiss Settlement of 
                                                    Switzerland County
                                                , Indiana (
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1925), 27-28.
                              
                                 3 According to several 
                                                Kentucky
                                             historians, this statement is peculiar. The 
                                                Kentucky
                                             land laws of 1792 changed the way land was obtained, making it
                                            unlikely that the Lakanals would have acquired land from Congress. It is
                                            possible that Lakanal was referring to the 
                                                Kentucky
                                             legislature. In Gallatin County, however, it is likely that a
                                            settler in 1816 would have had to acquire land from a previous owner. James
                                            Klotter, 
                                                Kentucky
                                             Historical Society, conversation with editor, February 18,
                                            1988; Carl Bogardus, conversation with editor, February 18, 1988; see also
                                            Robert S. Cotterill, History of Pioneer 
                                                    Kentucky
                                                
                                  (
                                                Cincinnati
                                            , 1917), 231.
                           
                                     years, so that in ten years, each one of you
                                    will have a prosperous farm and will owe nothing to anyone.
                        If my sisters and my brothers-in-law and my other nephews wish to come later on, you
                                    can have a vast establishment. I believe that your wife, as well as your families,
                                    will be reasonable and not oppose your coming, even if my sisters are obliged to
                                    sacrifice for your trip. You both will be able to pay them back, for it would not be
                                    just that they be strapped for you. They are no longer young and above all, children
                                    should help their fathers and mothers.
                        I ask you to bring two men and two women to me who are accustomed to farm labor. I
                                    don't have to say more. You know this kind of work, women in the farmyard
                                    and for the field work that women can do. As they will accompany you I am certain
                                    that suitable people will easily be found; people you can trust to keep the
                                    agreement you make with them. You should engage them for six years and make a
                                    written contract.4 We will give 250 francs per year to each man
                                    and 600 francs bonus to each one after ten years and 150 francs each year to the
                                    women and 300 francs after six years. If they have children they will have 50 francs
                                    less per year, because you cannot ignore that a lot of time is lost in taking care
                                    of little ones.
                        Because of the cost of the voyage I cannot take them for less than six years, so I
                                    strongly advise you to choose people about whom you feel sure, and who are used to
                                    pulling a cart or else harvesting on farms. Their six years done, they will have
                                    enough to buy land which we could obtain for them, as we will for you, and they will
                                    be your neighbors, this is a double motive for choosing trustworthy persons.
                        As the expedition of the funds needed for their passage costs a lot and there is a
                                    risk that a letter of exchange may not be honored, I ask you to procure the
                                    necessary sum for their passage and everything that is needed for their trip as well
                                    as for the purchase of the supplies which I will list at the end of this letter.
                                    Take a reasonable interest, up to the month of April to reimburse because we have
                                    sums coming due in 
                                        Paris
                                     next January. My husband will give an order to the person designated to
                                    receive them to send the sum that will be owing to your father or to your
                                    father-in-law. Even though we will be paid in January, the debt should run until
                                    April because a letter can be delayed, and it is better to give a little more money
                                    and have time to spare.
                        You will receive my letters at the end of the summer. I urge you not to lose time and
                                    to leave in the fall. This season is more 
                              
                                 4 Indentured servitude was still common in the
                                                Ohio Valley in 1816, both north and south of the
                                            river. Although the Northwest Ordinance abolished slavery in the Indiana
                                            territory, it did not rule against indentured servitude, and the articles of
                                            statehood confirmed this. In 
                                                Kentucky
                                            , where slavery was legal, indentured servitude would have been
                                            accepted as well.
                           
                                     favorable for navigation. Do not worry that
                                    winds are strong in this season. The winds of the land do not rule over the ocean.
                                    You will see this by the numerous vessels which arrive and depart during this
                                    preferred season. And there are other advantages. The first one is that when you
                                    arrive the weather will still be fine, this good weather can last here until the end
                                    of December and as you will still have the overland route to travel, you must not
                                    lose any time.
                        It will be easier to find these workers after the harvest. The most important reason
                                    of all for leaving at this time is that you will have time to prepare the land for
                                    cultivation and all of the other things that need to be done. You will only have six
                                    months to wait, whereas if you leave in the springtime, you will not have time to do
                                    anything and will be obliged to buy everything for sixteen months.
                        We left during January, the bad roads of winter in this country delayed our voyage.
                                    This year we could not get much done.
                        In case you cannot leave now, your brother could come ahead with Léopole
                                    and the workers.
                        Here are my recommendations for the voyage:
                        You should not divulge that you are coming to this country to settle because the
                                    government does not like to think that any country is better than theirs and always
                                    looks with a bad eye upon emigration. Therefore you will request your passports as
                                    well as those of the workers, as if you are coming to this country for family
                                    business. If the workers are not married, you can pass the women off as servants on
                                    your passport. If they are married, they will go on their husbands'
                                    passports.
                        It is better to come via a Dutch port. The passage is cheaper than from the ports in
                                    the North of 
                                        France
                                    . It costs less in the busiest ports because there is competition. You
                                    pay less when there is a group of several people because the captain or the owner
                                    will lower the price in order to secure the passages.
                        Moreover you can get special conditions such as the preparation of your own meals,
                                    which makes a big difference in the price, because on board these ships there is
                                    considerable waste of food and the passengers pay for it all.
                        The gentlemen who are bringing my letter came via Bordeaux aboard an American vessel
                                    for 250 francs each. They told me that they ate very poorly. There was a table,
                                    called between decks.5 The ship owner must estimate 100 francs
                                    for the food at the very least although he does not give you dinner for your money
                                    and with this amount per head; there will be at least eight of you, for you will be
                                    this number supposing that you do not bring your children this trip and that your
                                    brother and your cousin are not yet married, 
                              
                                 5
                                            Between decks is a literal translation from the French l'entrepont.
                              
                           
                                     because otherwise you will be ten or twelve,
                                    you see that you can have double provisions. Ordinarily, in the season that you will
                                    travel, the voyage only lasts twenty-five to thirty-five days. Three young people
                                    recently arrived from 
                                        Paris
                                     and who made the overland trip with the people who are taking my letter
                                    stayed at sea only twenty-one days. So you decide which route has the most
                                    advantages and you take it.
                        If you decide to prepare your own food these are the best provisions and the longest
                                    lasting. Also the sea air is very favorable.6
                        
                        Well-cooked bread, for fifteen days, if it molds, it can be cut into slices and
                                    dried; biscuits for the rest of the trip, taking enough for fifteen days more than
                                    the ordinary crossing time, for fear of delay. Ham, beef cooked so-called
                                    "à la mode." Remove all bones, put it into a barrel,
                                    cover it with pork grease which will seal all openings in such a way that the meat
                                    will have no air at all. It can keep for six months. Excellent. Sausages can be kept
                                    in the same way, as can soft-boiled eggs, butter, cheese, beans and peas for soup.
                                    With these provisions there is no fear of becoming sick, except for the first couple
                                    of days of the trip; the ocean's welcome. But this sickness is only a
                                    feeling of nausea and should not even keep you from eating, because it is after
                                    eating that you will very often feel better. Cooked meat is good for this. You feel
                                    very languid and yet have a strong appetite.
                        You should know that women cannot go do the cooking on board, it is a man's
                                    business. If you have agreed to bring your own nourishment, stipulate that you will
                                    receive water to drink and for your cooking and that you will have your place at the
                                    fire. These are necessary preconditions, for once at sea there will be no time to
                                    arrange for them.
                        You should take a barrel of beer and several bottles of brandy. This last named can
                                    be put into a big bottle called the Yellow Lady.7 These bottles
                                    are protected with a woven willow cover and can hold twelve to twenty-four bottles.
                        You should not all go to the port before you are assured of a ship. For the ship
                                    owners, in order to obtain your passages, will tell you every day that they are
                                    leaving that day—and you may wait from fifteen days to three weeks in the
                                    inns. A ship leaves only when it is fully loaded, that is how you can tell. If you
                                    are obliged to wait, stay in an inn at some distance from the port and one of you go
                                    every day to the dock to check on the departure time.
                        When you embark take a blanket, a sheet, a pillow and a small mattress of wool or
                                    straw about two feet wide. If you do your own 
                              
                                 6 Lakanal probably meant that the sea air was
                                            favorable for conservation of the food supply.
                              
                                 7
                                            Yellow Lady is another literal translation, from dame jaune.
                              
                           
                                     cooking you will need a big tin cooking pot, a
                                    big soup dish also of tin, cup and tin drinking glass for each one. For porcelain
                                    dishes are easily broken and you run the risk of eating out of the palm of your
                                    hand. Each passenger has the right to two hundred fifty pounds without paying
                                    freight charges. When you do your own cooking your supplies are not subject to
                                    freight charges. The weight of the bedding is not included either.
                        When you are ready to leave be sure to have all of your things together. For if they
                                    are not all near at hand you run the risk of being delayed several days getting off
                                    the ship and it is important that you not be forced to stay in the port because you
                                    will not find an inn. There are only boarding houses, extremely expensive. Whereas
                                    outside of the town and on all of the roads there are signs aplenty. You will find
                                    inns every mile, so that in case the weather is bad there is no fear of getting wet
                                    between inns.
                        Take a ship whose destination is 
                                        Philadelphia
                                     or 
                                        Baltimore
                                    , unless you will have to wait too long. In this case you can take a
                                    ship for 
                                        New York
                                    . But you will have twenty-eight leagues more to do overland. As you
                                    will see below, above all, do not embark for any other port, nor on any vessel that
                                    does not go directly to the ports I have indicated. Because to sell the passages the
                                    ship owners will deceive you saying that they will only stop over a couple of days.
                                    Once they are in a port, they do not know when the wind will blow them out again any
                                    more than you do.
                        None of your things are subject to an entry tax, neither household furniture nor the
                                    usual tools. There are no formalities to go through for the passports, the entry
                                    visa is useless, no one will ask you where you are going, unless it be by simply
                                    curiosity.
                        When you arrive in America you must buy a horse if you can, and this way be able to
                                    carry all of your baggage. In case you can not, you must leave your things to be
                                    shipped to 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                     to the address of Master Sutton and Mr. Nickle, merchants at 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                    . Your things should be solidly wrapped and packed tight in good boxes
                                    because if they can move around, everything will be broken, even the iron tools.
                        Your overland journey must be done on foot because there is only one stage which does
                                    the mail service. It is dreadfully dear and horribly bad and one is terribly
                                    over-charged in the inns where it stops. There is no time to go anywhere else and
                                    you are liable to have your neck broken every time it sways or when the wheels
                                    break, which happened to us three times. Moreover you have to walk half of the way
                                    because you don't dare to stay in the stage when it goes downhill and you
                                    cannot stay in it when it goes uphill and yet you will travel four days through the
                                    mountains. Actually you can arrive at your destination just as fast on foot because
                                    the coach cannot do more than thirty miles a day.
                        
                        Here is information that will be useful for your overland voyage. You will go to 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                    , it is 300 miles from 
                                        Philadelphia
                                     and 240 miles from 
                                        Baltimore
                                    . In case you land in 
                                        New York
                                    , it is 85 to 90 miles from there to 
                                        Philadelphia
                                    . Therefore this way is the longest. There are three miles in a league
                                    but these leagues are very short because the mile is nothing but one thousand steps
                                    of two and one half feet, English measure. I believe there are twelve to fourteen
                                    miles between your place and ours. You can verify this by walking there counting
                                    your steps. This will give you a good idea of the route you will have to do.
                        There is no trouble finding a place to stay along the road. There are inns
                                    everywhere. Travelers on foot are charged less than stage passengers. Also you can
                                    buy provisions in the dwellings and in the towns. You will always find ham for it is
                                    plentiful in this country. You will not do better in the inns. I warn you that you
                                    will never see a drop of soup, nor beer. There is tea and dark water that is called
                                    coffee, although it does not contain one grain of it. You will find brandy and very
                                    good cider.
                        The stage takes from eight to ten days to go from 
                                        Philadelphia
                                     to 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                    , not counting the stops you make when a wheel breaks. We had to wait
                                    forty-eight hours, so you see that without overtiring you can walk it and if someone
                                    is tired, you can stop to rest, or else have them take a passing stage.
                        Nota: The principal cities on the road between 
                                        Philadelphia
                                     and 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                    : from 
                                        Philadelphia
                                     to 
                                        Lancaster
                                    , from there to 
                              Carlisle, Harrisburg
                           , Shippensburg, Chambersburg,
                                            
                              Bedford, Somerset, Greensburg
                           , and 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                    . You will travel four days in the mountains, but you will find as many
                                    inns as elsewhere and several towns. For you will start to go up after having passed
                                    the Susquehanna at 
                                        Harrisburg
                                    . Everywhere where the road divides, there is a sign to indicate the
                                    route, so one is never confused as to which road to follow. You need not be afraid
                                    of sleeping in isolated inns, you can sleep everywhere with the greatest of safety.
                                    Americans are good people. Neither do you need to fear wolves, bears, or thieves
                                    along the way, a person alone can travel without apprehension.
                        When you reach 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                     you will embark on the 
                                        Ohio
                                    , there are boats every day. Some are called flat boats, others keel
                                    boats. These last go twice as fast as the first, but flat boats are more
                                    comfortable. If one of your group knows how to navigate on rivers, I advise you to
                                    buy a flat boat. They cost between 20 gourdes or dollars up to 50 and 60 (the gourde
                                    is worth 5# French money in dollars or piastre worth also 5#).8
                                    Moreover you can find people 
                              
                                 8 It is difficult to determine exact monetary
                                            equivalencies for this period; Lakanal uses a number of different terms to
                                            refer to what may have been the same
                           
                                     who are going the same way and purchase one
                                    together. Or you take them on your boat and they pay for their passage. The people
                                    who bring my letter came that way.
                        They bought a small keel boat and arrived at 
                                        Vevay
                                     in ten days, three miles below our place. (This way is very good). And
                                    above all, if you have a horse, take maize to feed it. This grain is called corn in
                                    English. It is sold for one or two gourdes. The barrel weighs about 290 pounds. At 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                     you must buy flour to make break, because bread is usually sold for six
                                    sous the pound, even though flour only costs two and one-half to three gourdes the
                                    hundred.
                        Buy a cauldron called a country oven to make the bread. This is a good method and
                                    makes excellent bread. You will gain the cost of the cauldron on the difference in
                                    price between the bread and the flour. This article is very useful and can be used
                                    for most anything around the house.
                        You should take advantage of being in this town where there are so many foundries and
                                    where the goods are cheap to buy what you will need for your household. Such as an
                                    iron pot, other pans and a hoe to plant the maize. This instrument is essential. It
                                    is sold here for 1 1/4 gourde, iron pots are sold here at 10 cents the pound. If you
                                    are not strapped for money, you can get a big iron boiling pot for me that can hold
                                    six or seven pails, one big cooking pot and two hoes. It is written hoe in English, but it is pronounced hoìe. In case this is too
                                    complicated, don't get anything for me.
                        Complete your business in 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                     promptly. The innkeepers are grasping and if you do not find a boat to
                                    leave right away, either to purchase or in paying your fare, which is six to eight
                                    gourdes per person, you must go to Wheeling thirty miles from 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                     over land and ninety miles by the river. The 
                                        Ohio
                                     makes a large loop between these two places. There you may also be able
                                    to embark or buy a boat. Things are cheaper there and you will find keel boats. As
                                    you are all young you can economize your fares by serving aboard. The captains are
                                    very willing. They economize salaries, you are well treated and you eat with him.
                                    Nevertheless, because of the women and your baggage you would do better to buy a
                                    boat because you will be able to leave when you want to and the women will be more
                                    comfortable, because you are lodged as in a room.
                        Food, except for the bread that I advise you to get at 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                    , may be bought along the river much cheaper. Stops are made 
                              currency. A piaster was a Spanish coin, and the name was
                                            often used interchangeably with dollar. It is not clear
                                            what Lakanal meant by gourde, which was a Haitian coin. The editor believes
                                            the symbol # refers to francs or pounds. See Franz Pick-René
                                            Sedillot, All the Monies of the World: A Chronicle of Currency
                                                Values (
                                                New York
                                            , 1971), 410. For a discussion of the history of European and 
                                                United States
                                             currency, see Encyclopedia Britannica, 13th
                                            ed., 1926, "money."
                           
                                     every night near homes and what is needed can
                                    be purchased. You will find hams; they never run out, eggs, butter, potatoes and
                                    milk. Also the river is covered with wild duck. If you have your gun you can add to
                                    your menu.
                        In case you need powder and lead you must get it when you land at 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                    , because it is brought to 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                     from where it is made, at Wilmington by Mr. Dupont, a friend of Mr.
                                    Lakanal. This town is between 
                                        Baltimore
                                     and 
                                        Philadelphia
                                    . I will teach you how to make what you need when you arrive and how to
                                    make the saltpeter, this way we will only have the sulfur to buy.
                        Our place is three miles before arriving at 
                                        Vevay
                                     and one mile before Prune Creek, between 
                                        Cincinnati
                                     and 
                                        Louisville
                                    . If you do not have your own boat, it is better for you to take one
                                    that goes to 
                                        Louisville
                                    , it passes right in front of our door.
                        Whereas from 
                                        Cincinnati
                                     there are sixty more miles by water, or forty-five by land on the main 
                                        Cincinnati
                                     road to 
                                        Louisville
                                    . You can also find boats at 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                     that go to 
                                        St. Louis
                                    , a French colony. Or to St. Genevièvre, French colony or
                                    else at Natchez or at 
                                        New Orleans
                                     a big French city, all of these boats go by our house.9 The advantage in setting out in autumn is to arrive when there are the most
                                    boats leaving, for it is the season of departure for 
                                        New Orleans
                                    , a large seaport. You will always see boats on the river.
                        Your wife and your mother should not fear a sea voyage. Your cousin was very much
                                    afraid to embark. Now she would happily do the crossing once a year. I am urging you
                                    to do it, you must hurry and not listen to idle talk. I have done this trip and I
                                    would do it twenty times if my affairs required it. I assure you that there is no
                                    more danger than in a good stage, if by luck you are able to leave at the time I
                                    presume, because I count on having you here during the month of December. Winter
                                    does not start here much before January and only lasts about a month and one half.
                                    Leaving during the fall as I have told you to, you will have a good trip, even in
                                    the mountains, but it begins to get cold high up and later the roads are bad, but
                                    if, as I say, neither you nor your brother can leave, you must write to me and give
                                    your letter to a person you can trust in a seaport, who can give it to a ship
                                    leaving for America, because if you send it by the postal services, I will not
                                    receive it.
                        Here is the list of household articles that you must keep: sheets, blankets, platters
                                    and plates of pipe clay, cups, glasses, coffeepot, knives, spoons, forks, candle
                                    holders and lamps, copper pots and if you have any grills, frying pans, scoop,
                                    tongs, chimney-hook (but 
                              
                                 9 All these boats from 
                                                Pittsburgh
                                             would have headed south along the 
                                                Ohio
                                            . Although Lakanal says the house was small, the family must
                                            have had prime land directly on the river.
                           
                                     instead of a bin, a cutter) because the fires
                                    are so big that we roast ourselves with our scoops with their short handles. In the
                                    way of tools you will need hatchet, spade, bill-hook, scythe, sickle. These tools
                                    are expensive here. Most of them come from 
                                        England
                                    . As you will not pay any freight, nor entry duties, they will cost just
                                    half as much, as a spade is worth ten francs here.
                        In Holland find out what the price of potash is and how much the entry duties are for
                                    Dutch ships, and for foreign ships. Because usually duties are higher for foreign
                                    vessels than for those of the nation. We can make a large quantity. One of you could
                                    sell it and return with merchandise, notably guns, which are extremely costly here.
                                    We will do business together, you could make a trip at least once a year.
                        Clothing: Men's hats are very expensive. Shoes and stockings, although of
                                    cotton, are cheap. There are no wooden shoes in this country, they would be very
                                    handy nevertheless, for the dew is heavy.
                        If your wife wants some, she should bring four pairs. I would like you to bring me
                                    several pairs, lightweight ones and without heels. My foot is about the same as your
                                    mother's. Your cousins would each like a pair, their feet are the same as
                                    your cousin Sophie's.
                        Note: the articles that I would like you to bring for us: two big saws, six sickles,
                                    two spades, two bill-hooks, one axe, two hoes, one big grill, choppers (or cutters)
                                    and a big knife to kill pigs with, a large grill for the chimney hook, a large
                                    copper cauldron for fifty or sixty pots. This cauldron is to make sugar with. We
                                    have a lot of sugar, you can make your own too. There are a large quantity of bees
                                    in this country that produce a lot of honey.
                        I would also like for you to ask your cousin Sophie to have the following slippers
                                    made for us by Signe, for she knows how he makes them: three pair of goat skin, two
                                    pair of bronzed calf and one pair of green shoes. These six pairs should be made to
                                    fit her foot for it is the same size as her cousins'. For me a pair of goat
                                    skin, a pair of calf and a pair of green moroccan leather.1 All
                                    of these shoes should lace. Mine should be longer than those of my daughters and
                                    wider in the same porportion, because I like to be comfortable.
                        If your cousin Sophie wants to come, she will also have land to cultivate; her
                                    cousins would be so pleased to see her again, but tell her that first she must iron
                                    the famous overcoat with nine holes,11 (if her husband wants to
                                    farm) for I would not wish for him to ply any other trade.
                        
                           
                              10This is a literal translation from maroquin
                                            vert.
                           
                           
                              11 The reference to the overcoat is presumably a family
                                        joke.
                        
                        
                        You and my sister Caroline have perhaps disagreed because of the affairs of my uncle,
                                    but my nephew, those things should be buried and you two must get together again
                                    with open hearts. If you choose the road I offer, neither one of you will need your
                                    parents and you will not be resentful if they do not leave you anything, because in
                                    the years to come you will be able to provide for them.
                        Don't forget to bring seeds and cuttings,12 here listed:
                                    plum slips, Reine Claude, apricots, apples, some grafts of good varieties of pears.
                                    If you have cider pears, bring them as well as seeds of several other varieties. The
                                    seeds must be kept in cabbage stumps so they will not dry out, if you do not take
                                    this precaution they will not grow. Plum seeds and apricot—peaches if you
                                    can find them. All of these seeds give good fruit. They do not need to be grafted.
                                    None of these fruits can be found in this region. There are lots of apples, but they
                                    do not keep. There are no pears or plums of any kind. Bring some cuttings of black
                                    currants, or dry currants. You could still find some on the bushes. If you have
                                    several types of wheat, bring several handfuls. You could add several plants with
                                    your grafts. Two pounds of wild chicory seeds, alfalfa seeds, bring red cabbage
                                    seeds, carrots, bring turnips and some leek seeds because those I brought did not
                                    grow. White beans, peas and sugar peas. I brought all of these vegetable seeds, but
                                    my beans did not sprout. If you can get a few tarragon seeds or else two or three
                                    plants or cuttings, as well as those onions called chives. The cuttings must be put
                                    into a small box, wrap them with clay and wet moss, they must be watered two or
                                    three times with soft water (not salt water) during the crossing. If you can, bring
                                    poplar and willow tree seeds. These are the kind that grow along the streams in your
                                    area and have very pliant wood—or if there are no seeds to be had, bring
                                    several thin cuttings that can be put with the others, as well as some cuttings of
                                    Frank willows. These trees are not to be found at all here and yet they are very
                                    useful on a farm.
                        Please tell my sister Caroline to send Leopole to a coopery for several days to learn
                                    how to store barrels because you must be as self-sufficient as possible, because you
                                    cannot have those things done here without losing ten times more time than it would
                                    take to do it yourself, because people would rather cultivate their land then work
                                    for others.
                        Bring the necessary tools and divide them up among the workers who come with you,
                                    that way there will be no tax to pay, even 
                              
                                 12 See Logan Esarey, The Indiana
                                            Home (
                                                Crawfordsville
                                            , Ind., 1943), 11-15, 21-26. Settlers throughout the west
                                            brought seeds from home with them if they could and took pains to save and
                                            exchange them in order to grow plants that were not native to the new
                                            territory.
                           
                                     though they are new. They are very easy going
                                    when they see families arrive who intend to settle here.
                        What I said about necessary tools, each one of you must have his axe for there are
                                    many big trees to cut, which will give you, as I said, a considerable quantity of
                                    potash.
                        However, if both of you have only the needed funds for your trip, as I presume is the
                                    case, do not worry, we will advance what is needed for you to begin, so do not be
                                    hesitant for fear of the future.
                        As you will come via Holland, Mr. Lakanal asks that you get a half of ream of letter
                                    paper, and a half of ream of lined paper for him and a case of eau de cologne, the
                                    kind that is sold in 
                                        Paris
                                     for six or seven francs the case. Divide the paper among the baggage of
                                    each one, for it is supposed to be for the use of the household.
                        Plates and dishes should be of pipe clay only. Because other earthenware is too
                                    heavy. If you already have some, you should sell it and buy pipe clay in the port of
                                    departure. These plates only cost fifty sous a dozen and if you get them, have them
                                    put into a small crate. And for me get two dozen flat plates, one dozen soup dishes,
                                    because I will not have enough to serve dinner to all of you, two big salad
                                    bowls—round ones, because they will also serve as soup tureens.
                        Do not forget some violet seeds for your cousins.
                        The season of October is the most favorable for crossing for there are no storms to
                                    fear. So, my nephew I urge you to be diligent, and not to forget anything I have
                                    told you. Tell my nephews and nieces that their turn will come, but that the older
                                    ones must go first.
                        Kiss your father and mother for me, give them my love, as well as to your brothers.
                                    Please kiss my sister Caroline and her husband for me as well as their children. If
                                    you see my uncle, give him my best regards, do not forget my cousin Jean, and my
                                    cousins Léonore and Marie Philipe, if you see them. Kiss your wife for me
                                    and present my respects to your father and mother-in-law, and Aunt Caterine. Say
                                    hello to Eugenie.13 If you bring people who are not married and
                                    if she wants to come, tell her that we would see her again with pleasure and if she
                                    is married and you get along with her husband, we would be happy to see them both.
                        This comes with all of my affection and a big kiss.
                        M. B. F. fme Lakanal14
                        
                        Nota: Other advantages of this country are to have hunting rights in twenty leagues
                                    of forest where you will find deer, hare, rabbit 
                              
                                 13 Eugenie may have been a servant; Lakanal suggests
                                            her as a possible choice for an indentured servant. It is not likely that
                                            she was a relative or a close friend.
                              
                                 14 M. B. F. fme Lakanal abbreviates
                                            Marie Barbe Francois femme, or wife, of Lakanal.
                           
                                     and partridge in autumn and winter, wild duck
                                    in abundance. Fishing in an immense river. In April you can make all the sugar you
                                    need within a week's time. No wood to buy for heating, there is as much as
                                    you want. You can have as many animals as you want. Cows are no more trouble during
                                    nine months of the year and your pigs will fatten up in the woods with beans, nuts
                                    and acorns. As you will not need to buy anything, when the year is over you will
                                    still have enough to live on.
                        If you write to me before leaving, this is our address: Mr. Lakanal, 
                                        Vevay
                                    , Indiana, 
                                        United States
                                     of America.
                        Here are the principle towns along the river and to our place: from 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                     to Wheeling, Marietta, Belle Ville, Belpre, Gallipolis, Village
                                    Francois, Limestone, a pretty town in 
                                        Kentucky
                                    , Auguste, 
                                        Cincinnati
                                     and 
                                        Newport
                                     opposite this last and in 
                              Kentucky, Lawrenceburg,
                                            Vevay
                           . Our house is three
                                    miles before arriving at 
                                        Vevay
                                     on the left hand side of the river. There are two houses, separated by
                                    a creek that is dry when the river is low. Our house is the first one before the
                                    creek. The house is small. The farm is a half a mile from the house we are now
                                    living in.
                        I will not give you the itinerary of the road from 
                                        Baltimore
                                     to 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                    . There are many Frenchmen in that city, you can easily get the
                                    information. 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                     is a commercial city, the general center of commerce between the
                                    eastern ports and the provinces of the west where we live. If you land in 
                                        Philadelphia
                                    , it is in Marquet Strite (that is written Market Street) where you will
                                    find all of the freight stages for 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                    . You can make arrangements for your baggage there, if you do not buy a
                                    horse to carry them. These stages take one month to six weeks to do the trip. There
                                    are many French merchants in this street who will be happy to give the required
                                    information to one of their compatriots.
                        If it is not difficult to obtain enough funds, I ask you to bring me a man's
                                    saddle and a woman's saddle, of good solid quality that you will pack with
                                    great care, so they will not be damaged, because they lose their value if they are
                                    scratched or frayed.
                        I also asked you in my preceding letter for a horsehair strainer to make flour, as
                                    well as an extra linen and a silk filter to make heavy cream because we brought a
                                    mill from 
                                        Paris
                                     to grind seeds for our own use and I was forgetful enough not to bring
                                    the strainers.
                        But if you do not have enough money to get these things, don't do it,
                                    because it doesn't matter to me to give 100 francs more or less in April;
                                    as I told you and you should not be short of money during the trip.
                        
                                    femme Lakanal
                                
                        Buy an English grammar so as to learn enough during the crossing, to ask for
                                    what you will need during the voyage.
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            
               
                        Robert Twente
                    
               WASHINGTON FIRE COMPANY
                            NO. 2
               
               Reproduced from John T. Windle and Robert M. Taylor. Jr., The Early
                            Arehitecture of 
                                Madison
                            , Indiana (
                            Madison
                         and 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1986).
            
            
            Book Reviews
            
               The Early Architecture of 
                            Madison
                        , Indiana. By John T. Windle and Robert M. Taylor, Jr. (
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                    : Historic 
                        Madison
                    , Inc., and Indiana Historical Society, 1986. Pp. xvi, 230. End map, illustrations,
                    notes, glossary, bibliography, indexes. $29.95.)
            There have been surveys of historic architecture in Indiana cities and towns before John T.
                    Windle's The Early Architecture of 
                            Madison
                        , Indiana, but few, if any, surpass this new work on one of the
                    nation's loveliest and best-preserved places. Since 1948, when he retired from the Newberry
                    Library, Windle has devoted himself to the protection and enhancement of his adopted hometown. In
                    1960 he founded Historic 
                        Madison
                    , Inc. (HMI), as one of the premier local historic preservation organizations in the 
                        United States
                    . HMI and the National Trust for Historic Preservation have made 
                        Madison
                     a model of small town revitalization.
            
               The Early Architecture of 
                            Madison
                        
                is a tribute to Windle and those who have worked so hard with him. The book
                    was begun almost twenty years ago under the guidance of the late Wilbur Peat, who was well-known for
                    his pioneering work on the architecture of the Old Northwest.
            The book begins with an excellent historical overview of the town by historian Robert M. Taylor, Jr.
                    Taylor shows an ability sadly lacking in most architectural historians—he clearly
                    understands the significance of economic, cultural, and geographic dynamics for the built
                    environment. Using his keen quantitative abilities, Taylor combines statistical data with first-hand
                    newspaper accounts and other primary materials to bring the genesis and development of 
                        Madison
                     alive.
            Windle's approach, however, is more conventional. After the overview section, Windle
                    presents 168 buildings, most arranged according to roughly sequential architectural
                    "styles." A brief definition of each style begins each chapter. Individual
                    buildings are photographed and outlined with salient dates, uses, owners, events and with a
                    description. The order of appearance is a mystery, although it seems that Windle begins each section
                    with the grandest examples and moves to the marginal. This is a hackneyed paradigm more convenient
                    to authors than helpful to students. Windle thinly disclaims the notion that the
                    "styles" he uses (Federal, Classic Revival, Gothic Revival, Italianate, French
                    Second Empire, 
                    
                  
                            Frank S. Baker
                        
                  SCROLL-SAWED AND TURNED PEAK DECORATION, 606 WEST THIRD STREET
                  
                  
                            Frank S. Baker
                        
                  IRON BALUSTRADE, 512 EAST MAIN STREET
                  
                  Reproduced from John T. Windle and Robert M. Taylor. Jr., The Early
                                Architecture of 
                                    Madison
                                , Indiana (
                                Madison
                             and 
                                Indianapolis
                            . 1986).
               
                     Queen Anne Revival-Eastlake, Mixed Styles—Mixed
                    Styles?—and so on) are neat pigeon holes.
            This approach works best for 
                        Madison
                    's high-style domestic architecture. But a substantial portion of what Windle
                    describes and analyzes defies categories. Architectural history will foster a far greater
                    understanding of the past when early ordinary architecture is treated in the same
                    terms afforded other cultural artifacts.
            The lack of maps or other aids is a serious weakness for this survey as well as others in the genre.
                    Taylor's splendid overview needs graphics and better illustrations to back up his
                    narrative. The book could have easily done with less space devoted to pictures of cornices, windows,
                    brackets, bargeboards or other architectural curiosities.
            There is, however, a good deal to admire. Windle draws on a wealth of primary materials (most,
                    unfortunately, unfootnoted) and the collective wisdom of friends and colleagues going back almost
                    forty years. Windle also gives a few industrial and vernacular structures their due. The
                    city's fabled Main Street is thoroughly treated, though divided up according to
                    "style" instead of with any kind of spatial or environmental perspective. What
                    good does it do anyone to know that at 317-19 West Main "the lower edge of the cornice
                    above the windows is also curved to follow the curves of the windows" (p. 165).
            These criticisms naturally raise questions about the purpose of such surveys. Are they meant to
                    praise the old line with loads of genealogical material? Are they intended to reward those who do a
                    good job of maintaining or restoring their historic properties? Are they meant to reinforce the good
                    deeds of the publisher?
            Windle and Taylor have done this and, thankfully, more. Students of Indiana history should welcome
                    this work and hope for more in the future.
            DOUGLAS L STERN is director of research and information
                    for the 
                  Jefferson County, Kentucky
               , Office of the Judge Executive. He has just helped organize a
                    local history program on the 1836 county courthouse in 
                        Louisville
                    .
         
         
            
               Indiana Artists George Jo and Evelynne Bernloehr Mess: A Story of Devotion. By
                    June DuBois; with "A History of Printmaking in Indiana" by Martin F. Krause. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1985. Pp. [x], 130. Illustrations, notes, catalog of
                    artists' works, index. Paperbound, $13.95.)
            It is refreshing to find a book about artists that so thoroughly accomplishes exactly what it set out
                    to do: to tell a story of devotion. As one reads the six chapters, which chronologically outline the
                    lives of two successful 
                        Indianapolis
                     printmakers, one discovers  that George Jo and
                    Evelynne Bernloehr Mess were as deeply devoted to their careers as they were to each other.
            The first two chapters describe the childhoods of both artists. Evelynne Bernloehr knew early on that
                    she wanted to be an artist. As a child, she won an art scholarship to the Herron School of Art in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , drew at summer camp in 
                        Brown County
                    , studied etching at Arsenal Technical High School, and returned to Herron in 1922 to
                    study painting with William Forsyth and Clifton Wheeler. George Mess was introduced to art by his
                    father, a photoengraver. George also received scholarships to the Herron School of Art and studied
                    with Marie C. Todd, although the artist Otto Stark was his major influence there. In 1921 he began a
                    commercial art business and met Evelynne during evening art classes at Herron. In 1925 they married
                    and settled in Broad Ripple.
            DuBois next discusses the artists' careers. Determined to overcome the limitations of her
                    era, Evelynne dedicated her life to the art of printmaking. She introduced the medium to George, who
                    mastered the technique of aquatint. While gaining solid reputations as fine artists, they supported
                    themselves with such jobs as fashion artist for L. S. Ayres and Company and advertising agency
                    artist and designer. They established the Circle Art School (1927-1982) as well as teaching in 
                        Indianapolis
                     art schools. Evelynne was also the founder of the Printmakers Association of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . After sojourns in Europe and 
                        Chicago
                    , the Messes returned to 
                        Nashville
                     in 1940, at which time George's career soared, and Evelynne abandoned much of
                    her career to assist George with his.
            The last two chapters of the story focus on George's struggle to continue producing numerous
                    aquatints and oil paintings despite a serious illness. He exhibited frequently around the country,
                    including at the Society of American Graphic Artists in 
                        New York
                     City, the Library of Congress, the Society of 
                        Chicago
                     Printmakers, and the 
                        Dayton
                     Art Institute. Eventually, however, his illness won the battle, and he died in 1962. As
                    she tried to cope with her husband's death, Evelynne devoted her energy to organizing a
                    retrospective of his work at the Herron School of Art in 1963. Soon after, she again began making
                    prints as well as executing a considerable number of oil paintings and watercolors. She opened an
                    art school in 
                        Brown County
                     and exhibited frequently at the Hoosier Salon and the 
                        Brown County
                     Art Gallery. Evelynne remarried in 1969 and continued to teach at her school until she
                    sold the property in 1980.
            Over seventy illustrations and photographs enrich the book, although there is no illustration
                    numbering system, making it difficult to find the mentioned work. Many similarities exist between
                    George and Evelynne's art; in keeping with the realist tradition, their works encompass a
                    variety of subjects. Landscapes, still lifes,  cityscapes,
                    portraits, and interiors were executed with skillful manipulation of both printmaking and painting
                    techniques.
            The Indiana historian, and more specifically, the 
                        Indianapolis
                     historian, will take special interest in DuBois's many references to people
                    and locations in the city during the first half of the century. The author does an excellent job of
                    chronicling the history of the art world in 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; this is explored further in an informative essay at the end of the book by Martin F.
                    Krause on "A History of Printmaking in Indiana." The endnotes of each chapter are
                    a helpful resource, although the book lacks a bibliography. An appendix of explanations and
                    definitions of printmaking techniques would have been extremely useful. The author does provide a
                    thoroughly documented chronological list of all of the artists' works as well as an
                    impressive list of their known works in permanent collections.
            Art historians may tend to find this book too colloquial and will have no use for it as a textbook.
                    While DuBois poignantly recounts the artists' lives and careers, she fails to provide a
                    critical analysis of their art works. Moreover, the artists are not put into the context of
                    twentieth century art. There is no mention of major contemporary artists or trends; the Messes are
                    taken out of the mainstream and generally discussed as insular Indiana artists. This is unfortunate,
                    for their works attest to their talent and merit serious critical study. On the other hand, the
                    general reader will enjoy the story and will learn about art and the Indiana art world in the
                    process. In a sense, it is fortunate that one does not need to be an art historian or have an
                    extensive art background to appreciate what this book has to offer. It makes no attempt to
                    intimidate the reader, who in fact will come away feeling privileged at having been given the
                    opportunity to glimpse the more personal, intimate side of two artists—an opportunity
                    that books on contemporary artists rarely offer.
            LESLIE R. SCHWARTZ is Exhibitions Coordinator at the
                    Herbert F. Johnson Museum of Art at Cornell University. She was formerly curator of nineteenth and
                    twentieth century art at the Indiana University Art Museum, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
         
         
            
               The Antislavery Movement in 
                            Henry County
                        , Indiana. By Thomas D. Hamm. Second edition. (
                        New Castle
                    , Ind.: 
                        Henry County
                     Historical Society, 1987. Pp. [iv], [92]. Appendix, note on sources, illustrations.
                    Paperbound, $3.25, plus $1.00 postage.)
            Over a decade in the making, The Antislavery Movement in 
                            Henry County
                        , Indiana, began as a high school research paper first published as a pamphlet
                    by the 
                        Henry County
                     Historical Society in 1975 and reached its present form after evolving through several
                    stages of expansion and revision. Thomas D. Hamm seeks not only to "tell the story of 
                        Henry County
                    's abolitionists" but to identify as many as possible of these
                    abolitionists, most of whom were  Quakers, farmers, and
                    "neither rich nor poor" (pp. iii, 10). The book's format parallels the
                    author's stated objectives. The first half provides a general survey of antislavery fervor
                    in 
                        Henry County
                    . In the latter half, Hamm discusses antislavery activism in each of the localities and
                    offers brief biographies of leading 
                        Henry County
                     abolitionists. Within this framework the author admirably achieves his purpose.
            The Quakers, or the Society of Friends, migrated to Indiana from the South to escape the degradation
                    caused by the presence of blacks in bondage. Slow to organize, since Indiana was a pioneer state,
                    the 
                        Henry County
                     Antislavery Society was formed in 1841. The Friends, long advocates of manumitting
                    slaves, implemented their beliefs by initiating the free produce movement and utilizing the
                    so-called "Underground Railroad" to transport and hide slaves enroute to freedom.
                    Although the attempt to discourage the use of products made by slaves never succeeded and the number
                    of slaves freed by the Underground Railroad was insignificant, the Quakers toiled valiantly in an
                    often unpopular cause fueled by rampant racism to promulgate their beliefs and ameliorate the
                    condition of blacks living within Indiana.
            Hamm has written an interesting narrative for the general reader, rich in anecdotes, genealogical
                    material, and sketches and photographs of abolitionists, Underground Railroad depots, historical
                    markers, and tombstones, but the book leaves the historian disappointed. The most serious defect is
                    the absence of footnotes and a complete bibliography. Even though an annotated manuscript will be
                    placed in the 
                        Henry County
                     Historical Society, this omission creates an inconvenience for readers and diminishes
                    the historical value of the work. Lack of statistical data, too, detracts from the book's
                    validity. The author used a variety of sources but admits that many of his conclusions, void of
                    supporting empirical evidence, are speculative and subjective. A comparison between the antislavery
                    movement in Indiana with the larger organizations in the East would also have been useful. For the
                    generalist and those interested in local history and genealogy, however, this work is satisfactory
                    and could even provide a base from which to build a more comprehensive study of Indiana's
                    contribution to one of America's greatest reform crusades.
            JACQUELYN NELSON received her Ph.D. from Ball State
                    University in 1984 and has taught American history there and at 
                        Vincennes
                     University. She has published articles on the Society of Friends and their
                    participation in the American Civil War in the Indiana Magazine of History, Indiana
                        Military History Journal, and 
                            Quaker
                         History. She is currently writing a book on the Society of Friends in Indiana
                    during the Civil War era.
         
         
         
            
               The Northwest Ordinance, 1787: A Bicentennial Handbook. Edited by Robert M.
                    Taylor, Jr. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1987. Pp. xxiii, 136. Illustrations, maps, appendix,
                    notes, selected bibliography, index, wall map and facsimile of the Northwest Ordinance. Paperbound,
                    $6.50.)
            The Bicentennial Celebration of the Northwest Ordinance, as well as that of the Constitution, has
                    suffered from several currents in contemporary thought. A considerable body of scholars has followed
                    the Civil Rights activist-historians of the sixties in rewriting 
                        United States
                     history from points of view outside the traditional political and constitutional
                    mainstream; although one or another of the Founding Fathers may still gain some credit for
                    contributing to the unshackling of humankind, the intellectual elite now has a disenchanted attitude
                    toward the formation and expansion of the American Republic. These dissidents, exposers, and
                    reformers nevertheless work within the philosophy of self-evident individual rights first
                    established by the Founding Fathers as a basis for government.
            There is no turning back to the messianic patriotism of George Bancroft or the democratic
                    exceptionalism of Frederick Jackson Turner. It is a sign of the times that Turner's
                    once-potent writings on the early West are barely echoed in this book. What this Bicentennial Handbook offers instead is a calm, serious, thoughtful, and informed account
                    of the Northwest Ordinance. The document appears at the heart of the book, interleaved with lucid
                    explanatory essays by several expert contributors. It appears again in a handsome facsimile of the
                    original, on the back of the richly illustrated map of the Old Northwest supplied as a removable
                    insert. Three gracefully written essays further explain the Ordinance. Andrew R. L.
                    Cayton's "The Northwest Ordinance from the Perspective of the Frontier"
                    considers Indians, French settlers, white trappers, and subsistence farmers as gathered in a
                    pre-modern system friendly to people and the environment—a challenging view, clearly
                    informed by those recent currents mentioned above. Robert M. Taylor demonstrates that the men who
                    actually sat in the Continental Congress in that summer of 1787 were distinguished by a wide
                    experience of public service. They hardly deserved the odious comparisons often drawn between them
                    and the Fathers of 
                        Philadelphia
                    . Patrick J. Furlong contributes a concise history of the working of the Ordinance,
                    quite properly giving most details about the very first administration, that of Arthur St. Clair.
                    Although hardly revisionist, this essay makes a better case for the first territorial governor than
                    one usually sees.
            
            The illustrations include portraits, newspaper stories, various contemporary scenes, and a photograph
                    of the seal of the Northwest Territory. The eighteen maps (in addition to the folded enclosure) are
                    delightful and instructive. Paper and printing are of exceptional quality, and a rich rust-red ink
                    complements the black in this handsome, yet inexpensive book. Best of all it provides an informed
                    and accurate account of a crucial process in early national history.
            ROBERT MCCOLLEY is professor of history
                    at the University of 
                  Illinois, Urbana
               -
                        Champaign
                    . His works include Slauery and Jeffersonian 
                            Virginia
                        
                (
                        Illinois
                    , 1964, 1973) and articles on early slavery, early national politics, and the fine arts
                    in the Gilded Age.
         
         
            
               The Frontier Republic: Ideology and Politics in the 
                            Ohio
                         Country, 1780-1825. By Andrew R. L. Cayton. (
                  Kent, Ohio
               : 
                        Kent
                     State University Press, 1986. Pp. xii, 197. Map, notes, essay on sources, index.
                    $27.00.)
            Andrew R. L. Cayton has transformed land speculators, commercial entrepreneurs, and political
                    opportunists into a second generation of Founding Fathers by sketching the political history of the
                    territory and then state of 
                        Ohio
                     on the canvas of revolutionary ideology. The "remarkable ideological
                    consistency" which the author finds in early 
                        Ohio
                     politics extends the themes of Gordon Wood under whom Cayton first wrote this work as a
                    dissertation. The thesis or "fundamental issue was always the location of sovereignty, or
                    the source of power, in a rapidly developing frontier society. The Federalists had tried to place it
                    in the national government; the Jeffersonian Republicans ... insisted that sovereignty belonged to
                    the people" (p. 102).
            
               
                        Ohio
                     moved from territory to state, and its socioeconomic situation changed substantially
                    over the decades. But, according to Cayton, the tracks of political rhetoric remained rutted. In an
                    effort to promote the general welfare, Federalists, Moderate Republicans, and National Republicans
                    in turn favored different kinds and amounts of governmental control over the actions of individuals.
                    Republicans, Regular Republicans, and Jacksonian Republicans argued for autonomous individualism on
                    the presumption that the unfettered pursuit of personal interest would result in a natural harmony.
            The fortunes of the parties shifted. Federalists dominated 
                        Ohio
                    's government during its territorial period. Jefferson's election as
                    president in 1800 paved the way for 
                        Ohio
                    's statehood under Republicans. By 1807, the Republicans began to argue over a
                    new manifestation of the same ideological issue that had earlier separated Jeffersonians from
                    Federalists. Harmony returned by 1812 on  Moderate or Federalist
                    terms and remained until the Jacksonians reopened the ideological question following the Panic of
                    1819.
            Cayton does not believe that men live by ideology alone. He recognizes a role for personal and group
                    interest, regional ties, ambition, and circumstance. But his analysis remains so focused on
                    political rhetoric that he cannot adequately discuss these factors nor always tell "the
                    story of the events themselves" (p. xi). The reader who wishes to learn about the sweaty,
                    poker-playing, libeling, and gouging activities by which 
                        Ohio
                     was in part raised into the ranks of the mighty states should pass up Cayton's
                    abstract analysis.
            An overly tight focus on ideology sometimes tempts a writer to oversimplify. American political
                    parties use ideology as an umbrella under which to shelter a coalition of interests while waging a
                    campaign in particular circumstances. The ideology's meaning lies in the symbiosis of
                    ideas, interests, and conditions, not in the ideas alone. Greater sensitivity to this
                    interrelationship would help Cayton to distinguish more adequately, for example, between Eastern and 
                        Ohio
                     Republicans. Because each represented regions in different stages of development and
                    somewhat different interests in coalition, the ideological expressions of Eastern and 
                        Ohio
                     Republicans often diverged from one another. Indeed, as 
                        Ohio
                     developed, so too did the rhetoric of its Republican factions which sometimes adopted
                    ideological strains no longer pronounced in Eastern political coalitions.
            Cayton's study is frequently suggestive, sometimes elegant, and always worth reading. It
                    presents a useful new dimension to the understanding of 
                        Ohio
                    's early history.
            JAMES L. COOPER is professor of history at DePauw
                    University. He is the author of two books, numerous articles, and has reviewed more than fifty books
                    on various aspects of 
                        United States
                     history.
         
         
            
               Cherokee Renascence in the New Republic. By William G. McLoughlin. (
                        Princeton
                    , N.J.: 
                        Princeton
                     University Press, 1986. Pp. xxii, 472. Notes, tables, maps, illustrations,
                    bibliography, index. $29.50.)
            Of Iroquoian linguistic stock, the sedentary Cherokee of the southern Appalachian Mountain country,
                    principally in 
                        North Carolina
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                    , were one of the largest tribes east of the Mississippi River.
                    Their lives were structured by venerable beliefs, rituals, ceremonies, customs, and symbols.
            By the 1790s they had lost their most distinctive characteristic, their sense of harmony among
                    themselves, with the spirit world, and with nature. Dependency upon the products of European
                    technology, the introduction of European diseases, the westward press of colonial settlement,
                    fighting against the Americans in the recent  war, and internal
                    political divisions had taken their toll. They were now only about half as numerous and could claim
                    only about one-fourth of their ancestral homeland. New ideas and expectations aggravated
                    intergenerational cultural tensions as whites and blacks, both slave and free, married or otherwise
                    infiltrated into their ranks. As a people they had reached an identity and survival crisis.
            The American policy that served as the guideline for Indian-American relations from the 1790s into
                    the 1830s assumed Indians could be acculturated and integrated into American society. A majority of
                    the Cherokee felt compelled to seek ways to accommodate their old traditions to the new
                    circumstances on Cherokee terms.
            They were to be buffeted and bruised by the perceptions and misperceptions of government agents,
                    missionaries, traders, and divers opportunists, by the jurisdictional vagaries of states'
                    and federal machinations, and by divided loyalties and varied agendas in their own ranks. They
                    suffered through such wrenching experiences as an internal "Cherokee Rebellion," a
                    ghost dance movement that gave way to the southern Indian phase of the War of 1812, four abortive
                    removal crises, and destiny probings against the sounding board of the 
                        United States
                     Supreme Court.
            In this context of adversity, shattered dreams, broken promises, and misplaced trusts, the Cherokee
                    accepted the generous promises of American policy and sought to emulate the American model of
                    evolving nationhood imbedded in history, language, culture, and inviolable sovereignty, and a
                    readily identifiable homeland. They even crafted their 1827 constitution after the American
                    counterpart. The Removal Bill of 1830 and the Jackson presidency were major factors in the reversal
                    of American Indian policy. At the height of its fulfillment, the remarkable Cherokee renascence was
                    doomed.
            William G. McLoughlin fleshes out his previous studies of Cherokee pre-removal history. He gets as
                    close to the Cherokee level of the unfolding story as the records will permit. His revisionist
                    suggestion about the relationship between the cultural transformation taking place in America in
                    those years and the changing attitude toward the Indian's place in the new nation, not
                    developed in this study, deserves monographic treatment itself. Although the publisher's
                    manuscript editor might have improved its style, Cherokee Renascence stands as the
                    best account of the subject.
            DWIGHT L. SMITH is professor emeritus of history at Miami
                    University in 
                        Ohio
                    . He is currently working on a study of British diplomacy and the Indians of the Pacific
                    Northwest. His most recent publication is The Colorado River
                        Survey, written with C. Gregory Crampton, 1987.
         
         
            
               American Singularity: The 1787 Northwest Ordinance, the 1862 Homestead and Morrill
                        Acts, and the 1944 G.I. Bill. By Harold  M. Hyman. (
                        Athens
                    : University of 
                        Georgia
                     Press, 1986. Pp. x, 95. Notes, index. $15.00.)
            This book considers the acts in its title evidence of "American Singularity." This
                    uniqueness lies in the public policies that provided opportunities to achieve equality by granting
                    access to land, education, and legal remedies.
            In the introduction, Harold M. Hyman discusses whether American national experience is exceptional
                    and whether, as Goethe wrote, America "has it better." Hyman provides a survey of
                    contemporary opinion spanning the political horizon, but his erudition does not obscure his
                    optimism. That may be explained, in part, by the change in the membership of the historical
                    profession between World War II and 1950.
            Hyman begins by analyzing the Northwest Ordinance. He states that its antislavery provisions were,
                    like the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution, "a vision as well as a blueprint
                    for immediate implementation" (p. 28). Although the government was unable to monitor them
                    effectively, the author believes that they had the effect of making the laws of the slaveholding
                    states " ‘alien,’ dangerous, diseased, and distorted" (p.
                    29).
            With the author's vast knowledge of the era, it is not surprising that the second chapter,
                    dealing with the 1862 statutes and the 1863 Habeas Corpus Act, is the strongest. The Morrill Act
                    made the 
                        United States
                     the first nation in the world to commit resources to higher education—and
                    gave an unanticipated opportunity to women. Hyman also presents evidence that these three statutes,
                    seen in the context of the Thirteenth Amendment and a speech that Lincoln gave in April, 1865,
                    demonstrate that Republican leadership accepted and advocated public education for blacks, thus
                    contradicting some of the opposition to the 1954 Supreme Court decison in 
                        Brown
                     v. Board of Education of 
                        Topeka
                    .
            In the third, most innovative chapter, Hyman describes the democratizing effects of the G.I. Bill. By
                    ending a near-monopoly on access to elite universities and graduate education that had formerly been
                    determined by family and money, it brought the nation unexpected talents that otherwise would not
                    have been realized.
            The unexpressed a priori assumption of this book is that the true wealth of the
                    nation lies in its citizenry; its postulate is that America has been uniquely successful when it has
                    devoted some of the fruits of its natural resources to its human resources. That is a significant
                    message to all of us who hope that our posterity will celebrate the tricentennial of the
                    Constitution.
            MARY K. BONSTEEL TACHAU, professor of
                    history at the University of 
                        Louisville
                     and author of Federal Courts in the Early Republic: 
                            Kentucky
                        , 1789-1816, is a constitutional and legal historian who is now working on a
                    book about the state and federal courts of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     during the generation after adoption of the Constitution.
         
         
         
            
               Abraham Lincoln and the American Political Tradition. Edited by John L. Thomas.
                    (Amherst: University of 
                        Massachusetts
                     Press, 1986. Pp. 162. Illustration, notes, tables. $20.00.)
            The frontispiece of this revealing collection of essays must have been carefully chosen. It is a
                    Thomas Nast drawing of "Lincoln in the House of Representatives," and it depicts
                    the sixteenth president surrounded by the nation's legislators, shaking the hands of those
                    with whom he must lead a war-torn country. Nast's sketch thus takes Lincoln out of the
                    melancholic loneliness of the White House and sets him in the broader context of the political
                    culture of his age—precisely where the historians in this volume place him. As editor
                    John L. Thomas indicates, these historians portray Lincoln as an actor and molder of the American
                    political scene, an inheritor of a "rich lore of democratic popular culture," out
                    of which he shaped "a national liberal tradition" (pp. 3-4).
            Fittingly, in the book's initial offering, Robert H. Wiebe searches for the roots of
                    Lincoln's characteristic compassion and finds them in the predominantly male realm of his
                    era's political life. "Lincoln's democracy," Wiebe writes,
                    "was a fraternity, rooted in the man's world of law and politics" (p.
                    19). In his most revealing contribution, Wiebe shows that Lincoln, along with his fellow
                    politicians, eschewed the domain of women and family, rejecting its sensibilities as
                    "incurably romantic" (p. 26). Rather, he clung to the masculine comradeship which
                    undergirded the political culture of his age. From that attachment, then, flowed his tears of
                    compassion for the martyred soldiers, North and South.
            Other essays concentrate on facets of Lincoln's career, namely the nature of his
                    constituency and of his exercise of party leadership. William E. Gienapp, in a carefully documented
                    and quantified account, examines the sources of Lincoln's support in the election of 1860.
                    While stressing the diversity of voter response in the campaign, Gienapp points to two particularly
                    crucial elements: the Republican success in gaining youth support, especially seen in the colorful
                    Wide-Awakes; and the central role of nativism in gleaning votes from former Know-Nothings. In fact,
                    Gienapp concludes, the latter group constituted "the most important shift that produced his
                    victory" (p. 77).
            Stephen B. Oates and Michael F. Holt provide the only genuine debate in the volume. Oates attacks
                    David Donald's contention that Lincoln was a "Whig in the White House,"
                    arguing instead that he was a "principled and dedicated Republican" (p. 107) who
                    worked closely with Congress. Unfortunately, Oates fails to define "Republican"
                    carefully and, at times, seems to echo rather than contradict Donald. Though masterfully written,
                    Oates's case thus lacks cogent evidence. On the other hand, Holt reasons persuasively that
                    Lincoln and congressional Republicans differed vehemently  over
                    how to respond to Democratic challenges, a conflict which led to the president's efforts to
                    form a "new coalition" more in keeping with his old Whig principles. Holt
                    therefore concludes that Lincoln "acted like a good Whig" (p. 118).
            The remaining articles, by Don E. Fehrenbacher and James M. McPherson, are less compelling.
                    Fehrenbacher analyzes Lincoln's mastery of political discourse and shows how he used words
                    to shape the political moment. The real value of Fehrenbacher's treatment, however, stems
                    from his insights into the use of oral sources rather than anything he reveals about Lincoln.
                    McPherson views the Civil War as the "Second American Revolution" (hardly a fresh
                    interpretation) during which Lincoln was a "pragmatic revolutionary" (p. 157) bent
                    on conserving the Union by destroying slavery and thereby fulfilling the promise of the first
                    Revolution. Like their fellow essayists, Fehrenbacher and McPherson use primary sources effectively
                    and plow some new historiographical ground. Consequently, Lincoln scholars should find the whole
                    volume refreshing.
            LLOYD A. HUNTER, professor of history at 
                        Franklin
                     College of Indiana, recently directed the "Pathways to the Old
                    Northwest" conference at 
                        Franklin
                     College and has contributed to the Indiana Historical Society's publication,
                        The Northwest Ordinance: A Bicentennial Handbook. A specialist in American
                    religious history, he has co-authored with Professor Herman Hattaway an article on the spiritual
                    legacy of the Civil War which appeared in Civil War Times Illustrated in January,
                    1988.
         
         
            
               Soldier's West: Biographies from the Military Frontier. Edited by Paul
                    Andrew Hutton. (Lincoln: University of 
                        Nebraska
                     Press, 1987. Pp. xiii, 276. Notes, illustrations, maps, index. Cloth-bound,
                    $19.95; paperbound, $9.95.)
            The frontier cavalrymen have been touted as heroic protectors and denounced as demonic figures
                    capable of immense brutality and genocide. Neither image is accurate, although there is an element
                    of truth in both of them. To better understand these soldiers and the role of the military in the
                    history of the Trans-
                        Mississippi
                     West, Paul Andrew Hutton has enlisted fourteen professional historians to write short
                    biographies of senior officers who served in the frontier from 1800 to 1900. One of the oldest
                    officers, William Clark of the Lewis and Clark expeditions, was the brother of George Rogers Clark
                    and was a first lieutenant under Anthony 
                        Wayne
                     during the Ohio Valley Indian campaigns. The younger men had
                    earned reputations during the Civil War and secured key posts in the military on the frontier
                    afterwards.
            The editor's goal is to "portray the wide diversity in style, temperament, activity
                    and occupations that marked the careers of the officers on the military frontier" (p. 3).
                    He meets that goal by presenting a wide range of military roles: explorer, topographer, engineer,
                    writer, combat officer, and policy maker. Even the best known of the soldiers are portrayed here
                    with new insight. Phil  Sheridan, for example, was not an
                    advocate of genocide but rather a disciple of total war and in many respects a modern warrior.
                    William S. Harney was not just a single-minded Indian fighter for "in addition to his
                    passion for battle, he also understood the need for a humane policy once conflict was over"
                    (p. 56). Typical of many career officers was Stephen H. Long, who never fought Indians or Mexicans.
                    Rather he typified careerists "who spent decades carrying out routine tasks with only an
                    occasional dangerous or exciting assignment" (p. 39). Men like Long constituted the
                    backbone of the military, and their contributions as explorers, engineers, and topographers were
                    enduring.
            After reading these biographies, one must conclude that the "typical" frontier
                    soldier was a myth—the variety, diversity, and complexity of these men is now clear.
                    Still controversial is the question of the impact of the Indian wars on the Army. Was it true that
                    the Army was never ready for a real war because it was basically structured to fight Indian bands?
                    Why was the lesson of how to fight guerilla wars never learned? Robert Utley concludes that the
                    problem was that the Army was always structured to fight conventional wars, and thus did not do as
                    well as it should have on the unconventional frontier. The paperback edition will be useful in those
                    courses in military and Western history which use a biographical approach.
            D'ANN CAMPBELL, a fourth generation Coloradoan,
                    teaches courses in frontier, military, and social history at Indiana University. She has written on
                    western women's roles and attitudes in the 1940s, and is currently completing a book on the
                    roles played by women in the military during World War II.
         
         
            
               Agricultural Distress in the Midwest: Past and Present. Edited by Lawrence E.
                    Gelfand and Robert J. Neymeyer. (
                        Iowa
                     City: University of 
                        Iowa
                    , for the Center for the Study of the Recent History of the 
                        United States
                    , 1986. Pp. ix, 111. Notes, figures, tables, references. Paperbound, $9.95.)
            This is a peculiar little book which, despite its title, is only intermittently concerned with either
                    agricultural distress or the Midwest. It consists of four essays originally delivered at a
                    conference sponsored jointly by the University of 
                        Iowa
                    's Center for the Study of the Recent History of the 
                        United States
                     and 
                        Iowa
                     State University's Henry A. Wallace Center for Agricultural History and Rural
                    Studies. The conference organizers hoped that historical analyses of previous farm depressions would
                    provide a useful perspective for understanding the current farm crisis.
            Only the first essay, "American Farmers and the Market Economy, 1880-1920," by
                    Walter T. K. Nugent, achieves that objective. Written in his usual felicitous style, and based on
                    his own extensive work, it describes the current farm crisis as only the most  recent since the structural changes in farm economics in the late
                    nineteenth century inexorably bound American farmers to world markets. Offering explicit comparisons
                    between the 1880s and the 1980s, Nugent discusses the issues of banking, credit, protectionism, and
                    the rural depopulation of marginal(ized) farmers. His conclusion is sober: "The vexing
                    situation of the small farmer is not a problem, but a condition. It is not something that has a
                    solution, other than leaving the land, but it is something that has to be lived with" (p.
                    15).
            The remaining essays are less satisfactory. David 
                        Hamilton
                     focuses more narrowly on farm policy in the 1920s and 1930s, but by placing the subject
                    in the context of the now well-known "organizational synthesis" he does provide a
                    useful reexamination of the complexities and continuities in government policy. His particular
                    interest is with the technocratic experts of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics who sought to
                    "integrate commercial farming into a world dominated by industry, science, and large-scale
                    organizations" (p. 25). Still narrower is economist Stanley Johnson's essay
                    reporting econometric projections that the Food and Security Act of 1985 will not significantly
                    improve the current depressed agricultural conditions. 
                        Norman
                     Borlaug's essay goes to the other extreme, virtually lacking any focus as it
                    rambles across centuries, cultures, and continents, with asides on topics ranging from the last
                    general to become president of Mexico to the possibility of growing wheat in space. Borlaug, of
                    course, received the Nobel Peace Prize for his role in the Green Revolution, but this awkward piece,
                    delivered extemporaneously at the conference, is embarrassing to read.
            In short, this volume, lacking coherence and direction, is of limited use and only marginal interest
                    to historians.
            PETER H. ARGERSINGER, professor of history at the
                    University of 
                  Maryland, Baltimore County
               , is the author of "Populists in Power:
                    Public Policy and Legislative Behavior," Journal of Interdisciplinary
                    History, XVIII (Summer, 1987), 81-105.
         
         
            
               The Breckinridges of 
                            Kentucky
                        , 1760–1981. By James C. Klotter. (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1986. Pp. xviii, 393. Illustrations, appendixes, notes, bibliographical note, index.
                    $35.00.)
            Until the advent of the new social history, family history was mostly the province of local
                    historians and genealogists, and even now historians have produced few distinguished histories of
                    individual families. Therefore James C. Klotter's new book on the Breckinridges is a
                    welcome addition to the literature and is even worthy of comparison to Paul C. Nagel's
                    outstanding Descent from Glory: Four Generations of the John Adams Family.
            
            Conscious of both place and time, Klotter nicely balances the Breckinridge story with descriptions of 
                        Kentucky
                     and often stimulating commentary on regional and national issues. Because of the
                    author's success in handling his material, his book becomes much more than a mere history
                    of a border-state family.
            Beginning with the migration of John Breckinridge into 
                        Kentucky
                     in the late eighteenth century, the Breckinridges greatly influenced the development of
                    a complex and diverse frontier state. Klotter deftly handles the family's tangled
                    relationship to the institution of slavery and persuasively explains, for example, why Robert J.
                    Breckinridge developed strong antislavery opinions and became a strong Unionist while his nephew
                    John C. Breckinridge became the southern Democrats' presidential candidate in 1860 and a
                    Confederate general. Indeed the account of family divisions during the Civil War, which is far
                    superior to most cliche-riddled accounts, is one of the most moving parts of the narrative.
            Although Klotter obviously admires the Breckinridges' many achievements, he does not hastily
                    pass over the unsavory part of their story. His description and analysis of the relations between
                    husbands and wives and parents and children is careful and even-handed. Likewise the scandal that
                    erupted as a result of W. C. P. Breckinridge's affair with a 
                        Washington
                     woman is treated straightforwardly, with special attention given to its political
                    consequences and effect on the family.
            Given the variety of family activities, Klotter had to deal with everything from horse racing to
                    midwifery, and he handles most topics with aplomb. The account of the reformer and academic,
                    So-phonisba Breckinridge, and the fascinating description of the interplay between family history
                    and professional training in the life of Mary Breckinridge, display both thorough research and
                    considerable imagination.
            Some readers may have wished Klotter had ended the book with Mary—the chapters on John
                    Bayne Breckinridge add little to the story—and his final chapter on the family as a
                    whole—even with its useful analysis of the tension between reform and conservatism among
                    the Breckinridges—is disappointing. Yet despite an occasional problem with diction,
                    Klotter has produced a well-written and often evocative narrative that is liberally sprinkled with
                    first-rate analysis. As a history of a southern family, Breckinridges of 
                            Kentucky
                        
                stands unrivaled.
            GEORGE C. RABLE, Director of American Studies, Anderson
                    College, is the author of But There Was No Peace: The Role of Violence in the Politics
                        of Reconstruction (1984) and of Civil Wars: Women and the Crisis of Southern
                        Nationalism, forthcoming from the University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press.
         
         
            
               Killings: Folk Justice in the Upper South. By William Lynwood Montell. (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1986. Pp.  xxvi, 184. Map, illustrations, tables,
                    figures, notes, works consulted, index. $19.00.)
            William Lynwood Montell's Killings is a captivating book of interest to
                    the general reader as well as to the specialist in oral traditions and cultural history. His study
                    area, which he calls "the State Line country," "is situated astraddle the 
                        Kentucky
                    -
                        Tennessee
                     state line, a little east of the midpoint," and it "extends for
                    approximately nine miles from north to south and ten miles from east to west" (p. xiv).
                    Within the context of the social, cultural, and economic history of the State Line country, Montell
                    focuses on fifty documented killings (verified by court records and "substantial"
                    oral traditions) that took place between the mid-1800s and 1940.
            "Such a contextual approach," he says, "allows for the portrayal of lethal
                    violence in its true relation to other elements of the area's culture, rather than in
                    distorted or sensationalized perspective. The use of oral sources makes such an approach possible,
                    as the researcher is compelled to look at killings and their causes through the eyes of
                    insiders" (p. xviii). To supplement and document the oral accounts he collected from
                    residents over a six-year period, Montell also searched local newspapers, histories, and court
                    records. To protect his informants from "possible embarrassment and harassment,"
                    he uses fictitious personal and place names and omits all documentation containing specific
                    references to the study area—a justifiable practice in such a study.
            In four chapters arranged chronologically, Montell examines the historical and social conditions and
                    attitudes that led to a staggering homicide rate in the study area and describes killings that
                    occurred across the years. A fifth chapter deals with the study area since World War II and includes
                    an analysis of local migrants to "a booming east central Indiana city," called
                    "Northtown" by Montell. In these chapters we learn that family feuds and vendettas
                    were not common in the study area; that killings generally resulted from one-on-one arguments and
                    altercations; that killing was done in defense of property, family, and personal honor; that
                    alcohol, theft, and boundary disputes accounted for many of the killings; that logging and
                    sawmilling camps were especially conducive to violence; that residents of the State Line country did
                    not view killings as criminal acts; and that former residents who moved to Indiana did not continue
                    to commit murder.
            In short, mainly because the area was physically isolated and politically fragmented among four
                    counties, there was no effective law enforcement through the 1930s, so the culture developed its own
                    code of folk justice. Families living in this rugged area were extremely poor, and protection of
                    what property they had was valued more than human life. As one informant said, "I learned
                    that anything I wanted I had to work hard for, and I wasn't going to let  anyone take it away from me" (p. 67). With ample oral
                    narratives of killings as macabre as any story written by Flannery O'Connor, Montell
                    clearly demonstrates that the State Line country is a subregional culture that, within
                    well-established limits, tolerated violence to maintain social order.
            RONALD L. BAKER, chair and professor of English at Indiana
                    State University, is the author of Folklore in the Writings of Rowland E.
                    Robinson, of Hoosier Folk Legends, and of Jokelore: Humrous
                        Folktales from Indiana; the coauthor of Indiana Place Names; and the
                    editor of Midwestern Folklore, the journal of the Hoosier Folklore
                Society.
         
         
            
               The Damndest Radical: The Life and World of Ben Reitman, 
                            Chicago
                        's Celebrated Social Reformer, Hobo King, and Whorehouse Physician. By
                    Roger A. Bruns. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1987. Pp. xi, 332. Illustrations, notes, selected bibliography, index.
                    $24.95.)
            Benjamin Reitman lived in the dark shadow of the Progressive Era. Born in 1879, he ended his 
                        Chicago
                     childhood abruptly when he jumped an eastbound freight and entered the hobo world.
                    Despite frequent wandering, he managed to graduate from a 
                        Chicago
                     medical college in 1904. Then in 1907, while on the road, he met James Eads How, whose 
                        St. Louis
                     hobo college Reitman decided to imitate in 
                        Chicago
                     with well-publicized results. A year later he met Emma Goldman, and for the next decade
                    he was her road manager and lover. But he never became a part of the anarchist movement, which
                    distrusted him as a crude-mouthed, publicity-seeking adventurer. Even Goldman's interest
                    was limited to his crude attractiveness and helpfulness in handling her lecture tours. He neither
                    influenced nor was influenced by the movement. He simply traveled with Goldman, his
                    "blue-eyed Mommy." In 1912 he paid the price for his association with Goldman,
                    however, when San Diego vigilantes—bankers and real estate salesmen—abducted
                    him to the desert, stripped, injured, and humiliated him. After that he began to drift from the
                    anarchists. In later life he advocated birth control (which led to two trials and imprisonment),
                    continued the hobo college, medicated the 
                        Chicago
                     crime syndicate's prostitutes, and in the 1930s supported a pioneering
                    educational campaign against venereal disease. He died in 1942.
            This is a "life and world" biography in which, one might say, the world obscures
                    the life. Reitman was clearly interesting, but he did not lead, influence, nor report events. He was
                    an arranger who knew how to publicize the hobo college and reserve Emma Goldman's hotel
                    rooms. In his reform activities, humanitarianism, not ideology, drove him; expediency, not vision.
                    To describe the world of some Progressive Era reformers through his life illuminates neither. Long
                    chapters discuss events, but readers often learn only that Ben was somewhere nearby and little
                    involved. We read 
                    
                  BEN L. REITMAN AT HEAD OF TABLE, HOSTING THE HOBO BANQUET, 1907
               
                    
                  REITMAN, IN HAT, PUBLICIZING EMMA GOLDMAN LECTURE, 1912.
                  Courtesy of the University of 
                                Illinois
                             at 
                                Chicago
                            , The University Library, Department of Special Collections.
               
                     at length of the horrendous Ludlow Massacre in 
                        Colorado
                     and learn that Ben later spoke to 
                        Denver
                    's mayor. We read in detail of 
                        Chicago
                    's literati gathering at the Dill Pickle Club and discover only that Ben was an
                    argumentative patron. We read of a poison attempt at a banquet for 
                        Chicago
                    's Cardinal Mundelein and learn Ben later claimed to police that he spoke with
                    the alleged poisoner. Ben was interested in the condition of the down-and-out, but he was peripheral
                    to reform circles. He was outrageous and combative but managed only limited contributions to 
                        Chicago
                    's turbulent social history. A more concisely described world would not have
                    overshadowed Reitman's life.
            HOWARD F. MCMAINS, a resident of 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana, and editor of the Newsletter of the Organization of
                    American Historians, has written articles on modern American history.
         
         
            
               American Frontier and Western Issues: A Historiographical Review. Edited by
                    Roger L. Nichols. (
                        Westport
                    , Conn.: Greenwood Press, 1986. Pp. viii, 303. Notes, sources and repositories for
                    frontier and western history, index. $35.00.)
            This book contains an introduction and thirteen essays on recent trends and developments in American
                    frontier and western historiography. The essays cover a broad spectrum of topics, such as
                    territorial government, frontier environment, mining, agriculture and livestock, transportation,
                    economics, frontier military affairs, Native Americans, women, urbanization, and social history. In
                    his interesting introduction, Roger L. Nichols briefly examines the several major problems that have
                    plagued the field. These include a perceived lack of respect from colleagues in the historical
                    profession as a whole, declining student interest on college campuses, and a persistent dilemma
                    concerning definitions. As Nichols rightly asks, "If the practitioners of frontier and
                    Western history cannot agree on the nature of their field, why should other scholars pay much
                    attention to their efforts?" (p. 3).
            Although some of the essays are analytically weak, amounting to little more than bibliographical
                    lists, most successfully evaluate the current literature. Many of the contributors advocate using
                    new methodologies—anthropological, sociological, economic, quantitative, and
                    meteorological—to replace the traditional narrative histories of the West with more
                    interpretive studies. More importantly, the authors' various suggestions on how to improve
                    frontier and western history serve to stimulate thought and direct both students and professionals
                    to new research problems. One should note, however, that merely advocating changes within the field
                    does not necessarily produce them. Several of the authors, especially Lawrence H. Larsen (frontier
                    urbanization), Mark Wyman (mining), and Paul A. Hutton (military affairs), believe that their areas
                    of  inquiry are still essentially in a state of infancy. Echoing
                    their sentiments, Nichols asserts in his essay that despite Indian historians' recent
                    emphasis on exploring and utilizing ethnohistory and comparative studies, "it is difficult
                    to avoid the persistent feeling that even the newer versions of Indian history have not reached
                    maturity as a major force within the profession" (p. 168). Nichols concludes this book,
                    however, by surprisingly predicting a rosy future for western and frontier history. If the generally
                    inadequate depiction of Native Americans in the most recent college history textbooks is an
                    indication of the effectiveness of new research in just one area, the editor's optimism
                    might seem somewhat premature.
            
               American Frontier and Western Issues is, nevertheless, a well-constructed work, a
                    significant historiographical source, and a useful addition to major research libraries and
                    institutions.
            CATHERINE PRICE has recently completed her doctoral
                    dissertation, "Chiefs, Headmen, and Warriors: Oglala Politics, 1851-1889," and is
                    currently visiting assistant professor of American history at Purdue University, West 
                        Lafayette
                    , Indiana.
         
         
            
               Booking in the Heartland. By Jack Matthews. (
                        Baltimore
                    : Johns Hopkins University Press, 1986. Pp. ix, 161. $16.95.)
            "Booking"—the term is Jack Matthews's—is something
                    akin to "antiquing." Matthews haunts country auctions, charity book sales, antique
                    and second hand shops, and garage sales within a day's drive of his 
                  Athens, Ohio
               ,
                    home in search of rare books and, of course, bargains. He has spun the curiosities he has found and
                    his occasional adventures of the chase into a series of essays, some of which have appeared in
                    various 
                        Ohio
                     magazines and are now gathered here in a rather slight but, nevertheless, amusing book.
            Amusing because, above all else, Matthews is a showman and he uses language, as a carnival barker
                    does, to puff, to exploit, and to sell his wares. He can take a "bumped, tattered, and torn
                    copy of Samuel Cumming's The Western Pilot (in "The Wear of
                    Time," p. 123) and convince his reader that, because its dreadful condition was achieved
                    through use, not neglect, it bears witness to "the generations of men who have handled it
                    and consulted it in sunlight and by lantern, to work their way through winter storms, spring rains,
                    and the peaceful and fragrant air of summer and autumn" (p. 131). Thus this worn out old
                    book is more desirable than an unused copy of the same edition that has survived in fine condition.
                    He even pleads the case for accepting rebound ex-library books as collector's items. He
                    does, however, draw the line at book club editions. In "The Expanding Universe of
                    Collectibles" (p. 152) he writes, "But rarity, or at least scarcity, provides much
                    of the interest in collecting; so that to collect book club editions would be like a hunter
                    specializing in shooting spaniels or house cats."
            
            The essays are informative and chatty and more likely to appeal to the history buff than to the
                    professional historian, and to the omnivorous accumulator of books who seeks treasures at country
                    auctions rather than the serious collector who knows his field and the specialist booksellers who
                    serve it. It is a book likely to find popularity in midwestern public libraries but not one to find
                    a permanent place in research collections.
            WILLIAM R. CAGLE is librarian of the Lilly Library at
                    Indiana University. He has been involved, privately and professionally, with book collecting and
                    bibliography since 1960 and currently is completing a book length bibliographical catalog of the
                    Gernon collection of more than 1,200 British and European books on gastronomy published between 1475
                    and 1900.
         
         
            
               Reflections on History and Historians. By Theodore S. Hamerow. (
                        Madison
                    : University of 
                        Wisconsin
                     Press, 1987. Pp. xiii, 267. Notes, tables, appendixes, index. $25.00.)
            When historians take time to reflect, their colleagues tend to cringe and ignore the result. Most of
                    us would rather do history than think about it. For those who care to reflect, here is a thoughtful
                    account of history and the historical profession as they appear in the late twentieth century.
            Theodore Hamerow is a distinguished European historian at the University of 
                  Wisconsin, Madison
               . In this book he offers his thoughts about the development and
                    character of the profession. History in his hands is neither good nor bad, simply a job of work. He
                    lavishes care on the task of describing how students join the profession, how they are socialized as
                    historians, and how historians join other disciplinary specialists in conducting the campus-based
                    academic enterprise. Separate chapters treat the student's progress from apprentice to
                    fellow professional, the lifestyle and habits of thought that characterize historians, and the
                    shifting subject matter ("new history" in different guises) chosen by historians.
            Beginning with a chapter titled "The Crisis in History," Hamerow refers to current
                    doubts about history's capacity to explain the past or affect the future. But he ends up
                    taking a conservative position. Citing Carl Becker and Oscar Handlin among others, he says that
                    history can "enable the community to judge what it is doing in the light of what it has
                    done" (p. 36). The ancient avocation of telling stories about the past became a profession
                    a century ago, and it is left to us to reconfirm the validity of what its practitioners do. Becoming
                    a historian is mostly dull and repetitious work, but the "pressures and dissatisfactions of
                    graduate training are to a large extent beyond remedy" (p. 116). Life as a historian is
                    mainly a matter of fitting in, but after all "history, despite serious shortcomings, can
                    still provide a satisfying and rewarding way of life" (p. 161).
            
            Some critics prefer to ridicule and not condone the drearier aspects of academic life. Hazard Adams
                    says of historians that they have become "an outgroup … pompous and …
                    long-winded, their styles anachronistic and their gestures desperate" (The
                        Academic Tribes [
                        New York
                    , 1976), pp. 72-73). Really serious critics seek to redirect historians to new
                    intellectual challenges. Hayden White tells us that "discontinuity, disruption, and chaos
                    is our lot" (Tropics of Discourse [
                        Baltimore
                    , 1978), p. 50) and that we had better recognize art and science as bedfellows in ways
                    we will have to accommodate. In the face of all this, Hamerow's conclusions seem banal.
                    "What is the Use of History?" asks his final chapter; if there is any it arises
                    from "the ontological argument [that] history by its nature, by its being, appeals to the
                    human intellect and spirit" (p. 238). However desirable, that conclusion will not withstand
                    the scrutiny of critics who want history to be more self-conscious and assertive about its
                    philosophy and methodology.
            GEORGE M. WILSON is professor of history and of East Asian
                    languages and cultures and director of the East Asian Studies Center at Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    . He specializes in Japanese history and also teaches courses on historiography. He is
                    interested in questions of philosophy of history and historical methodology.
         
         
            
               Local Schools: Exploring Their History. By Ronald E. Butchart. (
                        Nashville
                    : American Association for State and Local History, 1986. Pp. viii, 124. Illustrations,
                    suggested readings, bibliographical essay, index. Paperbound, $11.95.)
            Ronald E. Butchart's Local Schools is the inaugural volume in
                    "The Nearby History Series" published by the American Association for State and
                    Local History. A thoughtful, well-composed, and attractively produced contribution, it displays all
                    of the strengths but few of the weaknesses of the new social history.
            Drawing upon his expertise as a social historian of education, Butchart demonstrates well the value
                    of researching and writing histories of local schools. Social history has always made common human
                    experience its special concern, and Local Schools provides an excellent
                    introduction to the joys and benefits of local history for amateur and professional historians
                    alike. It is difficult to imagine a social history of the American people that ignores the
                    nation's schools. As Butchart repeatedly points out, schools are familiar institutions
                    imbedded in the social lives of everyday folk. Studying schools opens new windows upon
                    America's many-sided past, from the struggles of blacks seeking equal opportunity to that
                    of immigrants shaping a new cultural identity.
            Butchart continually reminds the reader of the place of educational history in the larger social
                    history of the American people. Schools affect many people's lives in the modern world in
                    particular, and Butchart highlights many different approaches to studying  educational institutions. Examining teachers' memoirs, for
                    example, can open vistas in women's history and labor history as well as in the history of
                    pedagogy. School board minutes and local newspapers often highlight the intensely political nature
                    of many school decisions. Studying the role of race, class, gender, or ethnicity within a single
                    institution, the public school, demonstrates the intersection of contradictory and often contentious
                    forces that shape everyday life. Local Schools very effectively illuminates the
                    many contributions historians of nearby institutions can offer to professional readers and the
                    general public.
            In a brief but well-conceived bibliographical essay, the author introduces readers to many first-rate
                    contributions in state and local history that have focused on education. Certainly it is difficult
                    to deny that well-crafted case studies helped reshape the historiography of schooling during the
                    past two decades. Scholars such as Carl Kaestle provided novel approaches to understanding the
                    evolution of urban public schools. Michael Katz has continually highlighted the value of state and
                    local history in understanding major questions of social history and public policy. And still other
                    writers such as Ronald Cohen have examined how local innovations such as the Gary Plan became a
                    national rage. In the hands of talented scholars, historical analyses of small geographical units
                    have made large contributions.
            Left unexamined in Butchart's history is the modern dilemma of the social historian. Whether
                    written by amateur or professional historians—the great strength of historical writing is
                    that there is room for everyone—social history has drifted toward a kind of new
                    antiquarianism. Ever more highly magnified studies appear on ever narrower topics. Knowing more and
                    more about less and less is hardly what Butchart desires, yet Local Schools does not deal critically
                    enough with its own subject. History can be written by anyone, for anyone, for any number of
                    purposes. But is the fragmentation of knowledge, excessive specialization, and continual fascination
                    with local studies part of the mixed blessings of social history? Has the effort to write the
                    history of ordinary people in common institutions ironically produced excessive knowledge about
                    topics cast too narrowly?
            In the hands of skillful writers, state, local, and regional history does not suffer from any sort of
                    provincialism or antiquarianism. But social historians, whatever their special interests, need to
                    alert more people to a new problem: professional historians who have an antiquarianism all their
                    own. Local Schools wonderfully highlights the very best in how to write the social
                    history of local schools. What is needed now is more discussion of the common pitfalls of local
                    history and especially social analysis.
            WILLIAM J. REESE is associate professor of education and
                    American studies at Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , and is associate editor of the History of Education  Quarterly. The author of Power and the Promise of
                        School Reform (Routledge & Kegan Paul, 1986), he is currently writing a history of
                    the origins of the American high school.
         
         
            
               On Doing Local History: Reflections on What Local Historians Do, Why, and What it
                        Means. By Carol Kammen. (
                        Nashville
                    : American Association for State and Local History, 1986. Pp. 184. Notes, index.
                    Paperbound, $13.50.)
            Local history has followed a winding path. Gentleman and lady amateurs have passed along its byways
                    unchallenged for a century and more, cobbling popular and didactic, feminized and commercialized,
                    patriotic and Christian narratives of communities and their older, usually Anglo-American families.
                    The professional historian drove amateurs from the high road of historical research and writing
                    around 1900, then ignored the conquest for grander themes. The American Association for the Study of
                    Local History launched a reunification movement after 1940, and today the line between the
                    "professional" or "academic" historian and the
                    "amateur" or "local" writer is blurred.
            Many local historians are still untrained in the historical arts. Realtors, housewives, bankers,
                    editors, civil servants, and retired businessmen, they simply "like history." Many
                    support a penniless local historical society, offer tours of the "old Smith house"
                    or the "Johnson Inn," and, eventually, tape recorder and word processor at hand,
                    write the history of "Our Town." This book is for them.
            Carol Kammen, a professor at Cornell University, teaches and writes local history. On
                        Doing Local History reveals her keen appreciation of the isolation and limited resources of
                    the local historian. Kammen redefines local history as a modernized "study of past events,
                    or of people or groups, in a given geographical area—a study based on a wide variety of
                    documentary evidence and placed in a comparative context that should be both regional and
                    national" (pp. 4-5). She calls on the local historian, who "researches, collects,
                    preserves, and communicates what he or she knows" (p. 120), to match the standards of the
                    professional scholar.
            Kammen, who insists that the historian depends chiefly on "intelligence and common
                    sense" (p. 1), has not written a "How-To" book. She offers instead a body
                    of practical advice, liberally salted with examples and projects, compressed into six essays that
                    examine "what it is we do and the conditions and traditions in which we
                    labor…" (p. 2). Kammen's first essay traces the art of local history
                    from post-medieval Europe to the American present. "Researching Local History"
                    asks writers to include "everyone" in community histories and to consult a variety
                    of oft-neglected sources. "Writing Local History" examines selectivity and writing
                    and offers caveats against biases and boosterism. Two nuggets from  this essay are wise indeed: write as if no town is an island, and
                    "leave footnotes unto others as we would have footnotes left unto us" (p. 103).
            Chapter Four, "The Local Historian," describes the ideal community scholar as
                    widely read, curious, involved in the community, imaginative, open-minded, and perseverant. How
                    should the local historian treat the local worthy with a Klansmen in his family tree, the nice lady
                    with a jailbird father? The scholar-community member must describe an event or pattern honestly, but
                    sometimes without naming names. Kammen's examination of document preservation includes
                    horror tales of dumpings and burning of valuable materials. "Writing Local History in the
                    Popular Press" gives practical advice on how to write for the newspaper. Reminding us that
                    a newspaper is "not an educational organ, but ‘a business'"
                    (p. 150), Kammen recalls one unpublished local historian who set an example for us all: he bought
                    the paper.
            
               On Writing Local History is a clearly written, concise account with much of value
                    to any historian. Academicians will presumably be aware of many of Kammen's ideas, but the
                    amateur will find much terra incognita. As local history professionalizes and
                    "modernizes," Professor Kammen's valuable treatise should be widely read.
                    And the cover of the next edition should offer a warning from the Historian-General: "Read
                    This Before You Write."
            LANCE TRUSTY is professor of history at Purdue University
                    Calumet. He has written extensively on the history of northwestern Indiana, and is preparing a
                    history of the Calumet Region for publication by the Indiana Historical Society.
         
         
         
            Correction
            The Indiana Magazine of History wishes to thank Charles M. Kirkpatrick and James E.
                    Farmer for identifying the following people in photographs that appeared in the December issue: in
                    the cover photograph, left to right, Senator Marshall Kizer, Representative Robert Rock, Senator
                    Robert Lee Brokenburr, and Representative Keith Bulen; on page 326, left to right, the third person
                    is Senator Wendell Martin; to the right of the woman, Patrick Chavis; between Matthew Welsh and
                    Starling James, Donald Foltz.
         
         
         
            Recent Articles, Pamphlets, and Dissertations in Indiana History
            
                    Compiled by Robert G. Barrows
                
            
               Editor's Note. This list of articles, pamphlets, and dissertations
                    published from 1984 through 1987 is intended as a bibliographic contribution to Indiana's
                    history. We hope to present such a list in each March issue of the Indiana Magazine of
                        History. We recognize that the list is neither complete nor systematic in coverage, and we
                    hope that readers will help us by sending items for possible inclusion. We are especially interested
                    in listing publications that make some contribution to understanding Indiana's past but
                    that are not normally reviewed in the IMH. Generally, we will not list newspaper articles or
                    accounts of local historical society activities, but printed pamphlets as well as journal articles
                    may be listed. All such items for the March, 1989, issue must be received by December 1, 1988. Many
                    people have contributed to the present list, but major responsibility has rested with Robert G.
                    Barrows of the Indiana Historical Bureau.
            
               
                  
                            Adams County
                        
                        Yesterday and Today (
                            Adams County
                        -
                            Decatur
                         Sesquicentennial Committee, 1986).
               Allison, Harold, The Tragic Saga of the Indiana Indians (Paducah, Ky.,
                        1986).
               Bailey, Dorothy Birney (comp. and ed.), 
                            Brown County
                        
                        Remembers (n.p.: Revere Press, 1986).
               Balanoff, Elizabeth, "The Gary School Crisis of the 1950s: A Personal
                        Memoir," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXIII (March, 1987).
               Bantin, Philip C., Guide to Catholic Indian Mission and School Records in Midwest
                            Repositories (Milwaukee, Wis.: Marquette University, 1984).
               Baudenistel, Paul, "Ice on the Whitewater Canal," Indiana
                            Waterways, V (August, 1986).
               Beath, 
                            Warren
                         Newton, The Death of James Dean (
                            New York
                        , 1986).
               
               Bedwell, Ralph (ed.), Broad Ripple High School: A Centennial History (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1987).
               Bennett, Joseph L., Boilermaker Music Makers: Al Stewart and the Purdue Musical
                            Organizations (West 
                            Lafayette
                        : Purdue Research Foundation, 1986).
               Bloom, Jo Tice, "The Territorial Delegates of Indiana Territory, 1801-1816,"
                            Old Northwest, XII (Spring, 1986).
               Boewe, Charles, "The Walam Olum and Dr. Ward, Again," Indiana
                            Magazine of History, LXXXIII (December, 1987).
               Booraem, Hendrik, V, "William Henry Harrison Comes to 
                            Cincinnati
                        ," Queen City Heritage, XLV (Fall, 1987).
               Bowerman, John, "Isaac Naylor Fought in Battle of 
                            Tippecanoe
                        ," 
                            Montgomery
                        
                        Magazine, XI (November, 1986).
               Bowerman, John, "Lincoln—the 
                            Montgomery County
                         Connection," 
                            Montgomery
                        
                        Magazine, XII (March, April, 1987).
               Bowerman, John, "Noted Ward 
                            Brown
                         was a Man with a Mission," 
                            Montgomery
                        
                        Magazine, XI (December, 1986). [Brief portrait of an educator and commissioner
                        of the Indiana High School Athletic Association.]
               Bowlus, Bruce, "Images of the Gilded Age: Life in the Midwest, 1880-1920,"
                            Hayes Historical Journal, V (Summer, 1986).
               Braeman, John, "Charles A. Beard at Mid-Career:
                        ‘Reflections,'" International Journal of Social
                            Education, II (Spring, 1987).
               Brennan, Stephen C., "The Publication of Sister Carrie: Old and New
                        Fictions," American Literary Realism, XVIII (Spring-Autumn, 1985).
               Brill, Fern Wharton, The Story of St. John's and Its People
                        (Craw-fordsville, 1987). [Concerns St. John's Episcopal Church, 
                            Crawfordsville
                        , founded in 1837.]
               Brinkley, Alan, "Writing the History of Contemporary America: Dilemmas and
                        Challenges," Daedalus, CXIII (Summer, 1984).
               Brinton, Martha J., "A History of the Statutes Governing the Textbook Adoption
                        Process in Indiana, 1889-1986" (Ed.D. dissertation, Indiana University, 1986).
               
                  
                            Brown
                        , Jeffrey P., "Arthur St. Clair and the Northwest Territory," Northwest 
                                Ohio
                             Quarterly, LIX (Summer, 1987).
               Brozek, Andnej, "Historiography of Polish Emigration to North America," Immigration History Newsletter, XVIII (1986).
               Calloway, Colin G., "The End of an Era: British-Indian Relations in the Great Lakes
                        Region after the War of 1812," 
                            Michigan
                        
                        Historical Review, XII (Fall, 1986).
               
                  
                            Cambridge
                        
                        City, Indiana: One Hundred and Fifty Years, 1836-1986 (
                            Cambridge
                         City Chamber of Commerce, 1986).
               Catlin, Robert A., "Organizational Effectiveness and Black Political Participation:
                        The Case of Katie Hall," Phylon, XLVI (September, 1985). [Hall was
                        the first black person to be elected to the U.S. House of Representatives from Indiana.]
               Cayton, Andrew R. L., "The Contours of Power in a Frontier Town: Marietta, 
                            Ohio
                        , 1788-1803," Journal of the Early Republic, VI (Summer,
                        1986).
               
               Cayton, Andrew R. L., "The Northwest Ordinance from the Perspective of the
                        Frontier," in The Northwest Ordinance, 1787: A Bicentennial Handbook,
                        ed. Robert M. Taylor, Jr. (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1987).
               Cohen, Ronald D., "Thoughts on ‘The Gary School Crisis of the 1950s: A
                        Personal Memoir,'" Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXIII
                        (March, 1987).
               Connery, Thomas B., "Hutchins Hapgood and the Search for a ‘New Form of
                        Literature,'" Journalism History, XIII (Spring, 1986).
               Cord, Xenia, "Black Rural Settlements in Indiana before 1860," Black History News & Notes, No. 27 (February, 1987).
               Cox, Richard J., "Genealogy and Public History: New Genealogical Guides and their
                        Implications for Public Historians," Public Historian, VI (Spring,
                        1984).
               Crawley, Gary L., "Electoral Competition, 1958-1984: Impact on State Legislative
                        Turnout in the Indiana House," American Politics Quarterly, XIV
                        (January-April, 1986).
               Critchlow, Donald T., "Studebaker: Wagonmaker/Automaker," Timeline, IV (April/May, 1987).
               Crocker, Ruth Hutchinson, "Christamore: An Indiana Settlement House From Private
                        Dream to Public Agency," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXIII (June,
                        1987).
               Dakin, Esse Bissell, "The Underground Railroad," 
                     St.
                                Joseph Valley Record, I (February, 1988).
               Dégh, Linda, "The Living Dead and the Living Legend in the Eyes of 
                            Bloomington
                         Schoolchildren," Indiana Folklore and Oral History, XV
                        (July-December, 1986).
               Divita, James J., "Father Vincent Bacquelin," "St. John's
                        Daughter Parishes," and "Gregory XVI Chalice to Be Used in Celebration
                        Sunday," The Criterion (November 6, 1987).
               Divita, James J., A History of St. Christopher Parish in Speedway, Indiana (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1987).
               Divita, James J., "The Indiana Churches and the Italian Immigrant,
                        1890-1935," U.S. Catholic Historian, VI (Fall, 1987).
               Dreyer, David S., A History of Immigration to the Batesville Vicinity
                        (privately published, 1987).
               Dry, Dan (photographer), Purdue University (
                            Louisville
                        : Harmony House, 1986).
               Durnan, Mary, "
                            Tippecanoe
                        —A Ghost of the Past," 
                            Marshall County
                        
                        Historical Society Quarterly, XVI (Fall, 1987).
               Eastes, Erick E., " ‘A By-Product of War’: A History of Camp
                        Thomas A. Scott, 1942-1949," Old Fort News, XLIX (No. 2, 1986).
                        [Regards prisoner of war camp located near Fort 
                            Wayne
                        .]
               Edmonds, Anthony O., "
                     Middletown,
                                Vietnam
                  , and the Turning Point of
                        1954," Indiana Academy of the Social Sciences Proceedings, XXI
                        (1986).
               Eller, David B., "The Pietist Origins of Sectarian Universalism in the
                        Midwest," Old Northwest, XII (Spring, 1986).
               
               
                  Fair Oaks, Indiana, 1887-1987. Compiled by Anna Marlin. ([
                            Rensselaer
                        , Ind.: The author, 1987.] Unpaged. Illustrations. Hand sewn leather cover, limited
                        edition, $18.90.) [Book composed of photocopied pictures, letters, newspaper
                        articles, etc., dealing with history of Fair Oaks in Union Township, 
                            Jasper County
                        , Indiana.]
               Ferguson, Earline Rae, "Lillian Thomas Fox: 
                            Indianapolis
                         Journalist and Community Leader," Black History News
                            & Notes, No. 28 (May, 1987).
               Fink, Irving L., "Bible Biology: Hendren v. Indiana Textbook
                            Commission," in We the People: Indiana and the 
                                United States
                             Constitution (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1987).
               Finkelman, Paul, "Slavery and the Northwest Ordinance: A Study in
                        Ambiguity," Journal of the Early Republic, VI (Winter, 1986).
               Flowers, Henry M., "Eyewitness to a Prohibition Raid [near Fort 
                            Wayne
                        ], 1929," Old Fort News, XLIX (No. 1, 1986).
               Fraser, Marie, "The Benjamin and Bessie Zeigler Family of 
                            Muncie
                        , Indiana," Indiana Jewish Historical Society Publications, No. 22 (July, 1987).
               "
                            Fulton County
                         Photos Before 1900," 
                            Fulton County
                         Historical Society Quarterly, Nos. 64-65 (1986).
               Furlong, Patrick J., "Putting the Ordinance to Work in the Northwest," in
                            The Northwest Ordinance, 1787: A Bicentennial Handbook, ed. Robert M.
                        Taylor, Jr. (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1987).
               Furlong, Patrick J., "The 
                            South Bend
                         Fugitive Slave Case," in We the People: Indiana and the 
                                United States
                             Constitution (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1987).
               Gates, 
                            Benton
                         E., "
                            Columbia
                         City Always Had Basketball Fever," 
                            Whitley County
                        
                        Historical Society Bulletin, XXV (June, 1987).
               Gates, 
                            Benton
                         E., "Earl Gates Recalls Occupants of Business Section of 
                            Columbia
                         City," 
                            Whitley County
                        
                        Historical Society Bulletin, XXV (December, 1987).
               "A ‘Gay ‘90's’ Vacation at
                        Culver," 
                            Marshall County
                        
                        Historical Society Quarterly, XVI (Spring, 1987).
               Geary, James W., "Civil War Conscription in the North: A Historiographical
                        Review," Civil War History, XXXII (September, 1986).
               George, Charles L., M.D., "World War II Diary: 58th Evacuation Hospital,"
                            Indiana Military History Journal, XII (January, May, 1987). [Diary of a
                        Hoosier physician.]
               George, Gerald, "State and Local History: A Coming of Age," American
                        Historical Association Perspectives, XXIII (March, 1985).
               Gerber, Philip L., "Dreiser: The Great Sloth of the Thirties," Old Northwest, XI (Spring/Summer, 1985).
               Givens, Stuart R., "Research Opportunities at the Institute for Great Lakes
                        Research," Northwest 
                                Ohio
                             Quarterly, LIX (Spring, 1987). [The Institute focuses on Great Lakes
                        maritime study.]
               
               Goodwell, Marian, First Presbyterian Church, 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana, 1837-1987 (
                            Richmond
                        , 1987).
               
                  
                            Goshen
                        , Larry G., Indy's Heart of Rock ‘n’
                            Roll (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1985).
               Graebner, 
                            Norman
                         A., "The 
                            Illinois
                         Country and the Treaty of 
                            Paris
                         of 1783," 
                            Illinois
                        
                        Historical Journal, LXXVIII (Spring, 1985).
               Gregg, Meredith, "
                            Madison
                         at Mid-century: Porkopolis of the West," Quarterly Newsletter
                            of the 
                                Jefferson County
                             Historical Society, III (April, 1987).
               Green, Judith 
                            Kent
                        , "A Tentative Transcendentalist in the Ohio Valley:
                        Samuel 
                            Osgood
                         and the Western Messenger," Studies in the American
                            Renaissance (1984).
               Griffin, Frederick P., 
                            Harrison County
                        's Earliest Years (n.p., 1984, 2nd printing, 1986).
               Guinee, William, "Satanism in Yellowwood Forest: The Interdependence of Antagonistic
                        Worldviews," Indiana Folklore and Oral History, XVI (January-June,
                        1987).
               Haffner, Gerald O., "Amos Lemmon's Farm Journals, 1902-1937," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXIII (September, 1987).
               Hanson, Charles E., Jr., "Silverwork for the U.S. Office of Indian Trade,"
                            Museum of the Fur Trade Quarterly, XXII (1986). [Includes information
                        regarding silver patterns sold at Fort 
                            Wayne
                         in 1808.]
               Harrah-Conforth, Jeanne, " ‘And I Thank God for the Union Every
                        Day’: An Account of Women's Experiences Working in the Indiana Auto
                        Industry," Indiana Folklore and Oral History, XIV (July-December,
                        1985).
               Harris, Patricia Gruse, Centennial History of Catholic Education: 
                                Michigan
                             City, Indiana, 1886-1986 (
                            Michigan
                         City: St. Mary of the Immaculate Conception Church, 1986).
               Hart, John Fraser, "Change in the Corn Belt," Geographical
                            Review, LXXVI (January, 1986).
               Hattaway, Herman, and Michael Gillespie, "Morgan's Raid: The War Strikes
                        Home," Timeline, II (1985).
               Herzberg, Roberta, "McCloskey versus McIntyre: Implications of Contested Elections in
                        a Federal Democracy," Publius, XVI (Summer, 1986), 93-109.
               Hess, Earl J., "Liberty and Self-Control: Republican Values in the Civil War North
                        (Ph.D. dissertation, Purdue University, 1986).
               Hinshaw, Phil, The Heritage of Carmel [
                            Hamilton County
                        ] (Nobles-ville, Ind., 1987).
               
                  The History of 
                                Marshall County
                            , Indiana (
                            Plymouth
                        : 
                            Marshall County
                         Historical Society, 1986).
               
                  The History of Noble County (n.p.: Noble County History Book Committee,
                        1986).
               Hobbs, Patricia O., 
                            Montgomery County
                         (
                            Crawfordsville
                        , 1986).
               Hoose, Phillip M., Hoosiers: The Fabulous Basketball Life of Indiana (
                            New York
                        , 1986).
               Hunter, Juanita, "The Indians and the 
                            Michigan
                         Road," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXIII (September,
                        1987).
               
               "The Indiana Central Canal," Indiana Waterways, V (Fall,
                        1987).
               Jacobs, Tevie, "Always on Thursdays," Indiana Jewish Historical Society Publications, No. 22 (July, 1987). [Brief memoir of growing up in the 
                            Indianapolis
                         Jewish community ca. 1920.]
               Jessner, Sabine and Peter J. Sehlinger, "Claude G. Bowers: A Partisan
                        Hoosier," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXIII (September, 1987).
               Jessup, Emily D. L., "Embattled Landscapes: Regionalism and Gender in Midwestern
                        Literature, 1915-1941" (Ph.D. dissertation, University of 
                            Michigan
                        , 1985).
               [Johnston, Carl C.], "I Was Raised at the Poor Farm: The 
                            Allen County
                         Asylum [1908-1920]," Old Fort News, XLIX (No. 3, 1986).
               Jones, H. O. "Whitey," Buried ‘Neath the Water: 
                                Leavenworth
                            —1937 (Corydon, Ind., [1986?]).
               Kammen, Carol, "On Doing Local History in 
                            New York
                         State: Responding to Need," 
                            New York
                        
                        History, LXVIII (April, 1987). [Discussion of the study of
                        philanthropy/benevolence at the local level.]
               Kammen, Carol, "On Doing Local History in 
                            New York
                         State: Thinking About Historical Societies," 
                            New York
                        
                        History, LXVII (January, 1986).
               Kammen, Carol, "On Doing Local History in 
                            New York
                         State: Working in Concert," 
                            New York
                        
                        History, LXVIII (January, 1987).
               Kigel, Richard, The Frontier Years of Abe Lincoln: In the Words of His Friends
                            and Family (
                            New York
                        , 1986).
               King, Rod, "Living History Lesson at Fort 
                            Wayne
                        ," Periodical: Journal of the Council on America's
                            Military Past, XIII (1985). [Regarding Historic Fort 
                            Wayne
                        .]
               Kirkpatrick, Charles M., "Pheasants versus Native Wildlife on the Game
                        Farm," Hoosier Conservation (September-October, 1985). [Deals with
                        the propagation of exotic game birds in Indiana during the 1930s.]
               
                  
                            Kosciusko County
                        , Indiana, 1836-1986 (n.p.: 
                            Kosciusko County
                         Historical Society, 1986).
               Kouroubetis, 
                            Milton
                        , The Greeks of Michiana: A Microcosm of the Greek Experience in
                            America (
                            South Bend
                        : Northern Indiana Historical Society, 1987).
               Kyler, Merle W., "Electricity Comes to Rural 
                            Whitley County
                        ," 
                            Whitley County
                        
                        Historical Society Bulletin, XXV (June, 1987).
               Lane, James B., ed., "Latinos in the Calumet Region," Steel
                            Shavings, XIII (1987).
               Lanier, Doris, "James Whitcomb Riley's 
                            Georgia
                         Connection," Old Northwest, XI (Fall/winter, 1985-86).
               "Latinos in the Calumet Region," Steel Shavings, XIII
                        (1987).
               Levine, Joseph, "Jewish Transients in Fort 
                            Wayne
                        , Indiana," Indiana Jewish Historical Society Publications, No. 22 (July, 1987).
               
               Lindahl, Carl, " ‘It's Only Folklore …’:
                        Folklore and the Historian," 
                            Louisiana
                        
                        History, XXVI (Spring, 1985).
               Lockhart, Paul D., "The ‘
                            Lafayette
                         Guard’ in the Black Hawk War," Indiana Military
                            History Journal, XII (May, 1987).
               Lyles, Carl C., Sr., A Chronicle of Lincoln High School, 
                                Princeton
                            , Indiana, 1904-1950 (
                            Evansville
                        , 1987).
               MacDonald, Margaret Read, " ‘It Don't Take Long to Look at a
                        Horseshoe’: The Humorous Anecdote Catch-Phrase as Proverbial Saying," Indiana Folklore and Oral History, XV (July-December, 1986).
               McGeever, Patrick J., "The Internationalization of the 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star?" Indiana Academy of the Social Sciences Proceedings, XXI (October, 1986).
               Madden, E. F., "John Cleves Symmes Revisited," American History
                            Illustrated, XX (May, 1985).
               
                  
                            Madison
                        , James H., "The Northwest Ordinance and Constitutional Development in
                        Indiana," International Journal of Social Education, II (Spring,
                        1987).
               
                  
                            Madison
                        , James H., "Reformers and the Rural Church, 1900-1950," Journal of American History, LXXIII (December, 1986). [Includes some material
                        and illustrations concerning Indiana.]
               Maher, Timothy, et al., "Whose Neighborhood? The Role of
                        Established Residents in Historic Preservation Areas," Urban Affairs
                            Quarterly, XXI (December, 1985). [Regarding Chatham Arch and Old Northside historic
                        districts in 
                            Indianapolis
                        .]
               Mahoney, Leo J., "Review Essay: The Plight of State and Local History," Western 
                                Pennsylvania
                             Historical Magazine, LXVIII (April, 1985).
               
                  Manilla Memories, 1920s-1980s (
                            Rush County
                         Historical Society, 1986).
               Marshall, Howard Wright, "The Pelster Housebarn: Endurance of Germanic Architecture
                        on the Midwest Frontier," Material Culture, XVIII (Summer, 1986).
               Mathers, George (ed.), "Missionary Letters from Fort 
                            Wayne
                        , 1828-1830," Old Fort News, XLIX (No. 3, 1986).
               Mattingly, Paul H., and Edward W. Stevens, Jr., eds., "… Schools and the Means of Education Shall Forever Be Encouraged": A History of
                            Education in the Old Northwest, 1787-1880 (
                     Athens, Ohio
                  : 
                            Ohio
                         University Libraries, 1987).
               Mayberry, 
                            Virginia
                        , ed., "West to Wilderness," Indiana Magazine of
                            History, LXXXIII (March, 1987).
               Meitzler, Edwin, "The Roaring Twenties Reach 
                            Whitley County
                        ," 
                            Whitley County
                        
                        Historical Society Bulletin, XXV (April, 1987).
               Meyers, Betty T., "Dr. Alice B. Williams Practices Medicine in County," 
                            Whitley County
                        
                        Historical Society Bulletin, XXV (August, 1987).
               
                  
                            Mitchell
                        , James H., "The Noble Dome," Antioch Review,
                        XLIII (Summer, 1985). [Discusses the dome as a unifying feature in U.S. architectural design,
                        with special reference to Indiana.]
               
               Mordoh, Alice M., "Portrait of a Lost Community: A Folklife Study of the Salt Creek
                        Valley of South Central Indiana and the Effects of Community Displacement Following Formation of
                        the 
                            Monroe
                         Reservoir" (Ph.D. dissertation, Indiana University, 1986).
               
                  Moscow Down Around the River, 1920s-1980s ([
                            Rush County
                         Historical Society, 1986]).
               Neely, Mark E., Jr., "The Origins of Constitutional Problems Under
                            Lincoln," Lincoln Lore, No. 1772 (October, 1986). [Concerns James G. Randall,
                        Indiana-born historian.]
               Nelson, Larry L., "Two Military Bands of Music on the Northwest Frontier During the
                        War of 1812," Military Collector & Historian, XXXVI (1984).
               Nelson, David Paul, "General Charles Scott, the 
                            Kentucky
                         Mounted Volunteers, and the Northwest Indian Wars, 1784-1794," Journal of the Early Republic, VI (Fall, 1986).
               Nichols, David (ed.), Ernie's War: The Best of Ernie Pyle's
                            World War II Dispatches (
                            New York
                        , 1986).
               Nolan, Alan T., "Ex Parte Milligan: A Curb of Executive and
                        Military Power," in We the People: Indiana and the 
                                United States
                             Constitution (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1987).
               Olson, Dana, Prince Madoc: Founder of 
                                Clark County
                            , Indiana (
                            Jeffersonville
                        , Ind.: Dana Olson, 1987). [Prince Madoc was the son of a twelfth-century Welsh
                        king.]
               O,Neill, Robert K., "The Indiana Historical Society's Acquisition of the ‘
                            Pennsylvania
                         Packet,’" Organization of American Historians
                            Newsletter, XV (February, 1987).
               Otto, Sarah B. (comp. and ed.), A History of Edinburgh, Indiana, 1820-1986 (
                            Franklin
                        , Ind., 1987).
               
                  
                            Palermo
                        , Patrick F., "The Rules of the Game: Local Republican Political Culture in
                        the Gilded Age," Historian, XLVII (August, 1985). [Focuses on the
                        Republican party in the Midwest during the late nineteenth century.]
               Palmer, George A., "The Town of 
                            Columbia
                         [City] Grows With Sale of Lots to the Early Settlers," 
                            Whitley County
                        
                        Historical Society Bulletin, XXV (February, 1987).
               Papke, David Ray, "Conceptualizing the Constitution: Lessons from and for Indiana
                        History," in We the People: Indiana and the 
                                United States
                             Constitution (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1987).
               Parish, David W., "Some Light on State Bibliographies," Government Publications Review, XII (January-February, 1985).
               Patrick, Jeff L., " ‘To the Relief of the Wounded’: A History
                        of Section 598, American Ambulance Service in World War I," Indiana
                            Military History Journal, XII (May, 1987). [Discusses a unit of the Ambulance Service
                        known as the "Purdue Ambulance Corps."]
               Patrick, John J., "The Constitution and the Northwest Ordinance in the Education of
                        Citizens," International Journal of Social Education, II (Spring,
                        1987).
               
               Patrick, John J., Lessons on the Northwest Ordinance of 1787: Learning Materials
                            for Secondary School Courses in American History, Government, and Civics (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Historical Bureau et al., 1987; available from Indiana
                        Committee for the Humanities, 1500 N. Delaware, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 46202).
               Patt, Ruth Marcus, "Samuel Judah, Class of 1816: Rutgers' First Jewish
                        Graduate," Journal of the Rutgers University Libraries, XLVII (1985).
                        [Judah served several terms in the Indiana House of Representatives during the first half of the
                        nineteenth century.]
               Peebles, Christopher S., Current Research in Indiana Archaeology and Prehistory:
                            1986 (
                            Bloomington
                        : Indiana University, Glenn H. Black Laboratory of Archaeology, 1987).
               
                  The Portable 
                                La Porte County
                            : An Historical Tour of 
                                La Porte County
                            
                   ([
                            Michigan
                         City]: 
                            Michigan
                         City Public Library and 
                            La Porte County
                         CETA, n.d.).
               "The Postwar Period in the Calumet Region, 1945-1950," Steel
                            Shavings, No. 14 (1988).
               Potts, Louis W., "‘A Lucky Moment’: The Relationship of the
                        Ordinance of 1787 and the Constitution of 1787," Mid-America, LXVIII
                        (October, 1986).
               Poulard, Jean V., "The Indiana Steel Industry and the World," Indiana
                        Academy of the Social Sciences Proceedings, XXI (1986).
               Powell, John W., History of the Thirteenth Indiana Cavalry Regiment,
                        1863-1865 (Utica, Ky.: McDowell Publications, 1987).
               Pugh, Mary Alice, "
                            Whitley County
                         Celebrates in '38," 
                            Whitley County
                        
                        Historical Society Bulletin, XXVI (February, 1988).
               Reinke, Edgar C., "Meliorem Lapsa Locavit: An Intriguing Puzzle
                        Solved," 
                            Ohio
                        
                        History, XCIV (Winter-Spring, 1985). [Regarding the Great Seal of the
                        Northwest Territory.]
               Richards, Clifford, "Susan Man McCulloch, Traveller and Artist," Old Fort News, XLIX (No. 1, 1986).
               Rikoon, James S., "From Flail to Combine: Folk Culture and Technological Change in
                        the Rural Midwest" (Ph.D. dissertation, Indiana University, 1986).
               Ringenberg, William C., "Benjamin Harrison: The Religious Thought and Practice of a
                        Presbyterian President," American Presbyterians, LXIV (Fall, 1986).
               Risinger, C. Frederick, "Resources for Teaching About the U.S. Constitution and the
                        Northwest Ordinance," International Journal of Social Education, II
                        (Spring, 1987).
               Roberts, 
                            Warren
                         E., "German American Log Buildings of 
                            Dubois County
                        , Indiana," Winterthur Portfolio, XXI (Winter, 1986).
               Ruede, Velma Willsey, The History of Pleasant View, 
                                Shelby County
                            , Indiana (1986).
               
                  
                            Salem
                        
                        Lutheran Church [
                                Marion County
                            ], 1836-1986 ([
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1986]).
               
                  Sand and Steel: The Dilemma of Cohabitation in the Calumet Region (Calumet
                        Regional Archives, Indiana University Northwest, 1987). [Exhibit catalog.]
               
               Sanders, Francis E., The Cole Brothers Circus from 
                                Rochester
                            , Indiana (Bourbon, Ind., 1986).
               Schmitt, Stan, "Wabash River Improvement Projects: Part One: The
                        Early Years," Indiana Waterways, V (Winter, 1986).
               Schneider, Jim, "Corporal John Noonan: Ft. 
                            Wayne
                        's Man With Custer," Old Fort News, XLVIII (No.
                        4, 1985).
               Schultz, George F., "Life Was Not Dull in 1886," 
                            Whitley County
                        
                        Historical Society Bulletin, XXIV (December, 1986).
               Schultz, Rima Lunin, The Church and the City: A Social History of 150 Years at
                            Saint James, 
                                Chicago
                            
                   (
                            Chicago
                        : The Cathedral of Saint James, 1986).
               
                  Sesquicentennial History [of] Manilla, Indiana, 1836-1986 (n.p., [1986]).
               Sexton, Don, "Sheriff Tells Haunting Memory," 
                            Whitley County
                        
                        Historical Society Bulletin, XXV (June, 1987). [Deals with only execution in 
                            Whitley County
                        .]
               Sexton, Susie Duncan, "Blue Bell Factory [in 
                            Columbia
                         City] Revisited," 
                            Whitley County
                        
                        Historical Society Bulletin, XXV (February, 1987).
               Smith, Dorothy S., Carmel: A Second Discovery (n.p.: Carmel [
                            Hamilton County
                        ] Sesquicentennial Commission, 1987).
               Smith, Mark C., "Fifty Years of an American City: Stability and Change in 
                            Middletown
                        ," Indian Journal of American Studies [
                            India
                        ], XIV (January, 1984).
               Smith, Thomas A., "The Politics and Practice of Civil Service Reform," Hayes Historical Journal, V (Spring, 1985). [Focuses on two letters from
                        Benjamin Harrison to Richard W. Thompson, 1877-1878.]
               Songer, Hugo C., The History of 
                                Huntingburg
                            
                   (
                            Evansville
                        , 1987).
               Soonthornrojana, Adulyasak, "‘Education is Growth’: The 
                            United States
                        , Indiana University and the Development of Teacher Education in Thailand"
                        (Ph.D. dissertation, University of Akron, 1986).
               Springer, Barbara A., "Ladylike Reformers: Indiana Women and Progressive Reform,
                        1900-1920" (Ph.D. dissertation, Indiana University, 1985).
               Stein, Mary Beth (ed.), Interpreting Our Past: Folklife and Local History in
                            Indiana Museums (
                            Bloomington
                        : Indiana University Foundation, 1987).
               Sterling, David L., "In Defense of Debs: The Lawyers and the Espionage Act
                        Case," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXIII (March, 1987).
               Stevens, Kenneth R., "The Kinsey Customs Case and Constitutional Law," We the People: Indiana and the 
                                United States
                             Constitution (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1987).
               Stevens, Paul L., "‘One of the Most Beautiful Regions of the
                        World’: Paul Des Ruisseaux's Memoire of the 
                            Wabash
                        -
                            Illinois
                         Country in 1777," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXIII
                        (December, 1987).
               
               Stevens, Paul L., " ‘To Keep the Indians of the Wabache in His
                        Majesty's Interest’: The Indian Diplomacy of Edward Abbott, British
                        Lieutenant Governor of 
                            Vincennes
                        , 1776-1778," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXIII (June,
                        1987).
               Stineman, William F., and Jack W. Porter, Saint John the Evangelist Church: A
                            Photographic Essay of the Oldest Catholic Church in 
                                Indianapolis
                             and 
                                Marion County
                            
                   (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1986).
               Stuckey, 
                            Clay
                         W., "A Picture Is Worth Ten Thousand Words—or Is It?"
                            Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXIII (June, 1987).
               Sullivan, Michael E., "Ethnicity and East 
                            Chicago
                        : A Variation on the Theme of Internationalization," Indiana Academy of the
                        Social Sciences Proceedings, XXI (1986).
               Taylor, Edmund E., Bits of [P.R.] Mallory [and Company] History (
                            Indianapolis
                        : T.E.L. Press, 1986).
               Taylor, Robert M., Jr., "The Vote and the Voters," in The
                            Northwest Ordinance, 1787: A Bicentennial Handbook, ed. Robert M. Taylor, Jr. (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1987).
               Thompson, Gates E., "Boards, Baskets and Batteries—Yesterday's 
                            Plymouth
                         Industries," 
                            Marshall County
                        
                        Historical Society Quarterly, XVI (Winter, 1987).
               Thompson, Donald E., "Henry L. Wallace was a Man of Integrity," 
                            Montgomery
                        
                        Magazine, XII (June, 1987). [Profile of the son of Lew and Susan Wallace.]
               Thompson, Donald E., "Susan Wallace, Champion for Women's Rights," 
                            Montgomery
                        
                        Magazine, XI (November, 1986).
               Thompson, Donald E., "Thompson Brothers [Maurice and Will] Stimulated Interest in
                        Archery," 
                            Montgomery
                        
                        Magazine, XII (July, 1987).
               Thompson, Donald E., "Woman Suffrage Group Organizes [in 
                            Montgomery County
                        , 1869]," 
                            Montgomery
                        
                        Magazine, XII (May, 1987).
               Thornbrough, Emma Lou, "Breaking Racial Barriers to Public Accommodations in Indiana,
                        1935 to 1963," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXIII (December, 1987).
               Thornbrough, Emma Lou, "The 
                            Indianapolis
                         School Busing Case," in We the People: Indiana and the 
                                United States
                             Constitution (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1987).
               
                  
                            Tippecanoe
                        
                        Heritage (
                            Monticello
                        , Ind., 1986). [Concerns the town of Buffalo and Liberty Township in White County.]
               Utley, Robert M., Four Fighters of Lincoln County (Albuquerque, N.M., 1986).
                        [One of the "four fighters" profiled is Lew Wallace as governor of 
                            New Mexico
                         Territory.]
               
                  
                            Van
                         Trees, Robert V., Banks of the 
                                Wabash
                            
                   (privately published, 1986). [Deals with Arthur St. Clair's
                        military activities in the Northwest Territory.]
               Vecoli, Rudolph, "Return to the Melting Pot: Ethnicity in the 
                            United States
                         in the Eighties," Journal of American Ethnic History, V
                        (Fall, 1985).
               
               "
                            Vietnam
                         Veterans from the Calumet Region," Steel Shavings, No.
                        15 ([1988]).
               Volpe, Vernon L., "The Anti-Abolitionist Campaign of 1840," Civil War History, XXXII (December, 1986).
               Wachsberger, Ken, "The Middle East in the Middle West," Present
                            Tense, XIII (Autumn, 1985).
               Wagoner, Lois, "
                            Fulton
                         United Methodist Church," 
                            Fulton County
                         Historical Society Quarterly, Nos. 64-65 (1986).
               Waldo, Michael J., "A Comparative Analysis of Nineteenth-Century Academic and
                        Literary Society Library Collections in the Midwest" (Ph.D. dissertation, Indiana
                        University, 1985).
               Warner, Michael S., "General Josiah Harmar's Campaign Reconsidered: How the
                        Americans Lost the Battle of Kekionga," Indiana Magazine of History,
                        LXXXIII (March, 1987).
               
                  
                            Warren
                        , Stanley, "The Evolution of Secondary Schooling for Blacks in 
                            Indianapolis
                        : 1869-1930," Black History News & Notes, Nos.
                        29-30 (August, November, 1987).
               Watson, Patty Jo, "Cave Archaeology in the Eastern Woodlands," Masterkey, LIX (1986). [Based on investigations in Indiana, 
                            Kentucky
                        , and 
                            Tennessee
                        .]
               Weaver, David, and Swanzy Nimley Elliott, "Who Sets the Agenda for the Media? A Study
                        of Local Agenda-Building," Journalism Quarterly, LXII (Spring, 1985).
                        [Analysis of 
                            Bloomington
                         (Ind.) Herald-Telephone coverage of the city council.]
               Webster, Daniel C., "The Taking of the Fifth: The Contested 1960 Election in the
                        Indiana Fifth Congressional District" (Ph.D. dissertation, Ball State University,
                        1986).
               Weinberg, Elizabeth, "August 3, 1855—The Dedication," 
                            Jefferson County
                        
                        Historical Society Quarterly, III (January, 1988). [Describes the dedication
                        of the first synagogue in 
                            Madison
                        .]
               West, James L. W., III, "George 
                            Barr
                         McCutcheon's Literary Ledger," Yale University
                            Library Gazette, LIX (April, 1985).
               Whalen, Terry, "Dreiser's Tragic Sense: The Mind as ‘Poor
                        Ego,’" Old Northwest, XI (Spring/Summer, 1985).
               White, Richard, "American Environmental History: The Development of a New Historical
                        Field," Pacific Historical Review, LIV (August, 1985).
               Wolford, John B., "Memories, Dreams, Recollections: A Sampler from Studebaker Oral
                        Histories," Indiana Folklore and Oral History, XIV (July-December,
                        1985).
               Wollenberg, Ken, ed., "My War Recollections from 1862-1865: The Memoirs of Daniel E.
                        Long, 88th Indiana Volunteer Infantry," Indiana Military History
                        Journal, XII (January, 1987).
               Woodward, Susan L., and Jerry N. McDonald, Indian Mounds of the Middle
                                Ohio Valley
                   (
                     Newark, Ohio
                  , 1986).
               Zink, Steven D., "Clio's Blindspot: Historians' Underutilization of 
                            United States
                         Government Publications in Historical Research," Government
                            Publications Review, XIII (January-February, 1986).
            
         
      
      
         
         
         
      
   
