
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 25, Issue 4, pages 257-338. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:25+issue:4+year:1929&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            The Burr Conspiracy In Indiana∗
            
            By Isaac J. Cox
            Indiana in the days of the Burr Conspiracy embraced a much larger area than today—at least
                    technically. It extended westward from the boundary of the recently-created state of 
                        Ohio
                     to the 
                        Mississippi
                    . The white settlements within this area were, it is true, few and scattering. The
                    occasional clearings within the forests were almost wholly occupied by Indians slowly receding
                    before the advance of a civilization that was too powerful for them. But sparse as was the
                    population of the frontier territory when first created, its infinitesimal average per square mile
                    had been greatly lowered in 1804, for Congress had bestowed upon its governor the administration of
                    that part of 
                        Louisiana
                     that lay above the thirty-third parallel.
            As thus constituted, it was a region of boundless aspirations—a fitting stage for two
                    distinguished travelers who journeyed through it the following year. Within its extended confines
                    near the mouth of the 
                        Ohio
                     lay Fort Massac, where in June, 1805, Burr held his mysterious interview with
                        Wilkinson,1 and also the cluster of French settlements from which William
                    Morrison, the year before, had attempted to open trading relations with Santa Fe2—a project in which Wilkinson was to follow him. It was here that Wilkinson, the
                    second of this sinister pair, received from his predecessor a letter warning him against political
                    factions in his new jurisdiction.3 By this act Governor Harrison emphasized not
                    only his own personal experiences, but also the essential connection of the area with Hoosierdom.
            
               
                  ∗ This paper was read before the 
                            Vincennes
                         meeting of the Mississippi Valley Historical Association on
                        April 26, 1929.
               
                  1 Walter F. McCaleb The Aaron Burr Conspiracy (
                            New York
                        , 1908), 26, 27.
               
                  2 I. J. Cox, The Early Exploration of 
                                Louisiana
                            
                   (
                            Cincinnati
                        , 1906), 117, 118.
               
                  3
                        American State Papers, Miscellaneous, I.
            
            
            But we are not concerned here with what happened in 
                        St. Louis
                     and nearby settlements, tumultuous as the local situation proved to be for its new
                    governor-general; nor yet with Fort Massac, occasional center in more than one suggestive event of
                    early westward movement. They represent other phases of the conspiracy of less immediate local
                    interest. Our main purpose is to consider some phases of the canal project, that, in 1805, popular
                    surmise associated with Burr's mysterious western journey, and to determine, if possible,
                    just how close this association really was. Then we may take up in some detail the fortunes of Davis
                    Floyd, Burr's chief agent in Indiana. These topics, it will be noted, are restricted pretty
                    definitely to the confines of the present state.
            Traffic on the 
                        Ohio
                     was broken, at a low stage of water, by the rapids or "Falls" that
                    mark its half-way point. From the very first these proved an obstruction that in economic importance
                    ranked second only to the Spaniards at the mouth of the 
                        Mississippi
                    . The latter were to be removed by the acquisition of 
                        Louisiana
                    . The Falls still remained; but the agitation that had been instrumental in forcing the
                    opening of the 
                        Mississippi
                     might, as some westerners believed, be equally potent against this natural barrier.
                    James Findlay, merchant and perennial office holder of 
                        Cincinnati
                    , was of this belief. Writing in January, 1804, to Senator Thomas Worthington, of 
                        Ohio
                    , he thus expresses himself: 
                        I expect before this time we have peaceful possession of Orleans. Now one thing more and we
                            may be as wealthy as we are free, that is making the falls of 
                                Ohio
                             navigable at low water.4
                  
                    
            
            We have no indication how Worthington reacted to this suggestion, but measures were already in train
                    to realize its purpose. Two methods were under discussion—to remove the obstruction or to
                    get around it. The engineering difficulties of the former seemed insuperable and even if the rapids
                    should be opened, the local effects might prove disappointing if not disastrous. The construction of
                    a canal around the barrier appeared more feasible. Those interests that profited from the break in
                    navigation would of course, oppose the enterprise and such opponents included conceivably a large
                    part of the people of 
                        Louisville
                    . Indeed it was 
                  
                     4 "Selections from the Torrence Papers", V, in Quarterly Publication of the Historical and Philosophical Society of 
                                    Ohio
                                
                     , IV, 105.
               
                     this opposition that helped delay the project and gave rise to
                    a rival one on the northern side of the river.
            The initial impulse for forming the Indiana Canal Company seems to have come from General Benjamin
                    Hovey, already distinguished as a land speculator in the state of 
                        New York
                    . Like many other easterners of the period he had not neglected the offerings of the
                    western wilderness. The Falls afforded a definite spot where private gain might coincide with public
                    good. This double service, however, should be based on a substantial land grant and presupposed
                    action by the national government.
            Accordingly in the fall of 1804, General Hovey appeared in the Federal City armed with letters in
                    favor of his scheme. One of them bore the signatures of Davis Floyd and of Samuel Gwathmey, of 
                        Jeffersonville
                    ; another that of Jared Mansfield, surveyor of 
                        Ohio
                    . His most enthusiastic testimonial, however, came from General James Wilkinson. The
                    last named wrote, indeed, out of a long experience. For twenty years he had resided in the region
                    and speculated in its manifold offerings; but he had not learned thereby to avoid further risky
                    ventures. His letter of January 15, 1805, enlarged upon the prospective revenue from tolls, provided
                    these were kept at a reasonable figure, and claimed that the commercial possibilities opened up by
                    the canal might in some measure neutralize the "destructive waste of timber" then
                    going on. Thus he became a surprisingly early but ineffectual apostle of conservation. He rightly
                    predicted that the building of ocean going vessels on the banks of the 
                        Ohio
                     would soon cease but the proposed canal might in turn build up a considerable traffic
                    along the mid-course of the river.
            Fortified by these letters Hovey and his associates on January, 17, 1805, petitioned Congress for a
                    grant of 25,000 acres of land in Indiana or a preemption on 100,000 acres, or other suitable
                    "encouragement". They based their plea for this donation on the benefits which the
                    construction of the canal would bring upon all western undertakings, including the sale of public
                    lands. In a separate letter Hovey asked for favorable terms, if given the preemption instead of a
                    grant, and for the privilege of disposing of the lands in small parcels.
            In the Senate the petition was referred to a committee made up of 
                        Dayton
                     of 
                  New Jersey, Brown
                of 
                        Kentucky
                    , and 
                  
                     5 The petition, letters, etc., are printed in the Liberty
                                Hall and 
                                    Cincinnati
                                 Mercury, Tuesday, March 12, 1805. Cf. also Palladium (
                                Frankfort
                            , Ky.), March 28, 1805, and Durrett Papers (MSS., University of 
                                Chicago
                            ).
               
                     Smith of 
                        Ohio
                    .5 The personnel suggests hand picking. 
                        Dayton
                     was a well known land speculator whose name still lives on the scene of his activities.
                    More than a year before Smith of 
                        Ohio
                     had mentioned in a personal letter a plan for removing the obstruction at the falls and
                    had pointed out the possibility that Congress might make an appropriation for that purpose.6
                    
                        Brown
                     came from 
                        Kentucky
                    , where naturally one would anticipate opposition, but in a matter of such public (and
                    private) utility, state lines might well disappear.
            So far Aaron Burr has not been mentioned in connection with the enterprise. He was, it is true, the
                    presiding officer of the Senate; but the vice-president did not appoint its committees. This one,
                    like all the others, was elected by the Senate as a whole. We may well believe that in its selection
                    Burr was not without his influence. Its members were friends of long standing, who shared in the
                    project. Its chief promoter came from the state of 
                        New York
                    , likewise the scene of Burr's political, professional, and speculative
                    activities. Further than this we can only say that in the keeping of this committee Hovey's
                    petition was not likely to suffer hardship.
            Such, indeed, was the tenor of its report on January 25, 1805. The document mentioned the utility of
                    the project for the entire country as well as its value for the West. To emphasize this utility, 
                        Dayton
                     added further assurances based on his personal observations. The associates, however,
                    were not yet incorporated, so the committee forbore further expression of opinion until that step
                    should be taken.7
            
            Possibly we are justified in regarding this delay as a check to the enterprise. But if so, its
                    promoters were undeterred. Three days later, on January 28, they held a public meeting at
                    Stelle's Tavern, of which General John Patterson, a congressman from 
                        New York
                    , was made chairman and James Glover secretary. General Hovey presented his report
                    favoring a canal on the Indiana, rather than the 
                        Kentucky
                     side, and a committee consisting of Patterson, Wilkinson and himself, was appointed to
                    petition the Indiana Legislature for a charter. Another associate from 
                        New York
                    , Dr. Daniel Stephens, moved that Hovey should at once give his personal 
                  
                     6 John Smith to James Findlay, December 24, 1803. Findley Papers
                            (MSS., Historiea' and Philosophical Society of 
                        Ohio, Cincinnati
                     ).
                  
                     7
                            Palladium. December 28, 1805.
               
                     attention to securing this charter. The expense connected with
                    this preliminary step should be apportioned among the associates but was not to exceed
                    $300 apiece. Hovey, Stephens, William Croghan, Daniel Hudson, and Davis Floyd were
                    constituted a temporary board of directors with Samuel Gwathmey as temporary treasurer. Glover as
                    secretary of the meeting was to notify absentees of its action and also bring the scheme to the
                    attention of such others as he should think proper.8
            
            Burr was possibly to be numbered among these absentees. His friendship as well as his temperament
                    would lead him to connect himself with the undertaking and his contemporaries regarded him as an
                    associate. During this time, however, personal affairs carried him to 
                        Philadelphia
                    . He left for that city on January 16, just before the petition of the Company was
                    presented to the Senate, and wrote his daughter that he should return on the 29th. His next
                    published letter to her is dated in 
                        Washington
                     on January 28.9 So he could have attended the meeting at
                    Stelle's had he wished, but he may have preferred to keep his connection, if any, a secret
                    one.
            Burr, it may be remarked parenthetically, had gone to 
                        Philadelphia
                     on a double mission. He sought to have quashed the indictment standing against him in 
                        New Jersey
                     for the killing of 
                        Hamilton
                    . For that purpose he bore letters from influential members of Congress and others
                    asking Governor 
                        Bloomfield
                     to exert himself in Burr's favor.10 Perhaps he thought he
                    could bring more pressure on the 
                        New Jersey
                     executive from 
                        Philadelphia
                     than from 
                        Washington
                    . In addition, as he confessed to his daughter, he wished once for all to determine his
                    standing with "Celeste", a name used by him to designate a lady of attractive
                    face, family, and fortune, to whom for some years he had paid assiduous but intermittent attentions.
            In this double quest involving both head and heart he was unsuccessful. Apparently he could neither
                    relieve the one nor soothe the other. The indictment still stood between him and the property in 
                        New York
                     that he hoped to salvage from political and professional wreck. Furthermore we may also
                    believe that it prevented him from raising loans in behalf of his forthcoming projects, whether they
                    beckoned him to 
                  
                     8
                            Liberty Hall and 
                                    Cincinnati
                                 Mercury, March 12, 1805.
                  
                     9 Matthew L. Davis, Memoirs of Aaron Burr (
                                New York
                            , 1836), II, 354.
                  
                     10
                            Ibid., 353.
               
                     Mexico or merely to the Falls of the 
                        Ohio
                    . As for his love affair, he wrote Theodosia that it was "forever
                        closed",11 and so we may leave it and turn our attention to more
                    prosaic land deals and canal projects.
            But even in these material affairs, granted that he was actively interested, fortune continued to
                    fail him. This was hardly due to his absence from 
                        Washington
                     at this juncture, for his open connection with the undertaking would have been of
                    doubtful utility. His close friends occupied strategic positions in Congress, yet their combined
                    efforts proved unavailing. That body turned down the proposal either for a definite grant or a
                    possible preëmption. The associates must turn westward and bring pressure to bear on the
                    newly created legislature in Indiana Territory.
            This may have been one of the purposes that led Burr beyond the mountains, although two years before
                    he had recorded his intention to go thither. His main idea, we may be sure, was to explore the
                    approaches to Mexico, but while determining the most favorable highway to this glittering goal, he
                    need not despise such wayside helps as political preferment, land speculation, or industrial
                    development. These subsidiary operations might aid his plan or at least serve to conceal it from too
                    inquisitive officials. Concealment was important, pending a break with 
                        Spain
                    .
            Shortly after the Eighth Congress closed its session, Burr started on his enigmatic western hegira.
                    Arriving at Pittsburg at the end of April and not finding there his anticipated companion,
                    Wilkinson, he proceeded at once down the 
                        Ohio
                    . On May 11 he reached 
                        Cincinnati
                    , where during his stop of a day, Senator John Smith was his host. Here he also
                    encountered 
                        Dayton
                    , who had preceded him.12 The ex-Senator, for 
                        Dayton
                    , like Burr, was now out of office, had already written to a subordinate in the War
                    Office that the associates expected an act of incorporation from the Indiana Legislature, which was
                    to meet for the first time in June, 1805. All then seemed favorable to the project and the response
                    from his correspondent was equally encouraging. But after Burr's, brief halt, during which
                    he, 
                        Dayton
                    , and Smith had a chance to discuss their mutual interests, and after the advent of
                    Wilkinson, for that worthy shortly followed Burr, the associates, 
                  
                     11
                            Ibid., 355.
                  
                     12
                            Ibid., 868, 369.
               
                     now near the scene of activity, evidently determined to
                    postpone operations. On June 2, 
                        Dayton
                     informed his eastern correspondent that no further arrangements would be undertaken
                    that year. Measures would be resumed, however, when he returned to the East.13
            
            If the associates for reasons of policy had determined to proceed more cautiously, the western press
                    did not follow suit. The 
                        Kentucky
                     newspapers still "presumed" that Burr's visit was
                    "confined to that object," that is, the construction of a canal. His own course at
                    his next stop, 
                        Louisville
                    , confirms this inference. From that place, on May 19, he dropped a brief note to
                    Wilkinson: 
                        Before you touch the 
                                Kentucky
                             shore in this vicinity see and converse with Joseph Davis at 
                                Jeffersonville
                            . Your friends are apprehensive that something is meditated against your
                            personal convenience. Verb. Sat.14
                  
                    
            
            Burr in this note is referring to Thomas T. Davis, a former Kentcukian, who was of one of the three
                    judges in Indiana Territory.15 Wilkinson later stated that the warning
                    "alludes to an intention to arrest General Wilkinson on a false claim of debt."16 We may also believe that Burr sounded Davis about the canal project, which
                    now had a rival chartered by the 
                        Kentucky
                     Legislature. He may have mentioned the invasion of Mexico, the enterprise for which
                    Davis Floyd was later tried as an accomplice. Either on this occasion, or more likely in the
                    following year, the distinguished traveler showed Judge Davis a letter from the Secretary of War to
                    the effect that Burr's plan, whatever it was, had the approval of the government.17
            
            Burr himself, according to later testimony, spent some time in reconnoitering the Falls. Jared
                    Brooks, the engineer for the 
                        Kentucky
                     company, reported that he conversed with 
                  
                     13 E. Bacon, Chairman, Report of the Committee to inquire
                                into the conduct of General Wilkinson, February 26, 1811 (
                                Washington
                            ), 496-498, 501.
                  
                     14
                            Burr's Conspiracy Exposed: and General Wilkinson Vindicated, etc. (
                                Washington
                            , 1811), appendix, 5. This portion of a preliminary publication was evidently
                            intend d to be included in Memoirs of General Wilkinson, II, but it is not
                            in the second volume of the later three-volume work. Cf. for a somewhat
                            different reading, Wilkinson's Memoirs, II (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1816), Appx. LXIX, and E. Bacon, Report of Cimmittee, etc.,
                            198.
                  
                     15 A letter from Thomas T. Davis, dated at Staunton, 
                                Virginia
                            , May 21, 1800, to the editor of the Impartial Observer
                            (Natchez, Miss.), appearing in that paper July 12, 1800, reports the probable election of
                            Jefferson and other news from the seat of government. Notice of the appointment of Davis as
                            judge in Indiana Territory, "vice W. Clarke deceased", appears in the Independent Gazetteer (
                                Lexington
                            , Ky.), March 29, 1803. In 1806, Governor William H. Harrison made Davis also
                            "Chancellor" of the Territory. See Palladium, March 20,
                            1806.
                  
                     16
                            Burr's Conspiracy Exposed, etc, Appx., 5.
                  
                     17 See note 43, below.
               
                     him at length on proposals to improve navigation there. After
                    the serious charge of treason was brought against Burr, however, Brooks thought that the
                    other's inquiries about a possible canal and his later proposals to establish a colony on
                    the Washita were both used as blinds to hide his separatist intrigues and that the Falls was one
                    point where he proposed to rally his followers.18 Davis Floyd did in fact gather
                    his contingent there.
            We need not follow Burr's movements below the 
                        Ohio
                    . Suffice it to say that in 
                        Frankfort
                    , John 
                        Brown
                    , one of the canal associates and now also an ex-Senator was his host. After brief
                    visits in 
                        Lexington
                     and 
                        Nashville
                    , during which reports became current that he was no longer interested in the canal
                        project,19 Burr floated down the Cumberland River and
                    shortly afterwards met the dilatory Wilkinson at Fort Massac. He was once more within the
                    jurisdiction of Indiana, but his movements henceforth confirm the rumor that he was no longer
                    interested merely in digging canals.
            Wilkinson whose "sanguine temperament" had led him into the enterprise was likewise
                    looking for other sources of gain and of glory. As we have noted above, he halted at 
                        Cincinnati
                     to consult with Smith and 
                        Dayton
                    . At Clarksville some days later he interviewed Hovey and began once more to talk about
                    the canal and the riches that it would bring to its promoters. One of his subalterns warned him that
                    Hovey, whose reputation was none too good, "might take them all in".20 Nevertheless the project went forward. Governor Harrison, on June 29, summoned the
                    legislative assembly to select a delegate to Congress. It met at 
                        Vincennes
                     on Monday, July 29, and chose Pierre Menard as president, pro
                    tempore, of the Legislative Council, Benjamin Chambers as its permanent president, and Jesse B.
                    Thomas as speaker of the House.21 It was this assembly that passed the law
                    creating the "Indiana Canal Company," capitalized at 20,000 shares of
                    $50 each. Twelve directors were named to have charge of its affairs until the first
                    Monday of the following May. They were empowered to take possession of land up to 100 acres and to
                    use the stone, timber, gravel, etc., necessary to construct the project and to cross other
                    properties and build 
                  
                     18
                            Liberty Hall and 
                                    Cincinnati
                                 Mercury, February 28, 1808.
                  
                     19
                            Palladium, June 1, 1805.
                  
                     20 E. Bacon, Report of Committee, etc., 505, 506.
                  
                     21
                            Palladium, August 17, 1805.
               
                     bridges with the customary payment of damages agreed upon; they
                    could receive donations of land and increase their capital stock; they were exempt from taxes and
                    assessments. These were the ordinary provisions of the charter of a joint stock company, but
                    according to the eighteenth section of the law they were also empowered to "invest any part
                    of the capital and profits in the public debt of the 
                        United States
                     or of any state or in the stock of any monied institution, or may employ the same in
                    commercial operations, or in any other mentioned transactions not inconsistent with the constitution
                    and laws of the 
                        United States
                     or the laws of this territory and for the sole benefit of the said company."
            Article 19 of the law empowered the directors, after accumulating $100,000 in gold and
                    silver or the value thereof in lands, to issue promissory notes. The value of these notes, however,
                    according to Article 20, was not to exceed double the cash in funds or lands.22
                    These three articles reveal the real purpose of the act. At any rate the canal was never dug but the
                    associates, instead, set up a bank of issue. Their opponents charged that this was the real purpose
                    from the start, and that its promoters would be enabled to sell their lands at a profit and to issue
                    paper money at will and in this way to swindle the people out of a few hundred thousand dollars.
                    Some even professed to see in this corporation a scheme by which Burr and Wilkinson were to secure
                    funds for the wider purposes of their conspiracy.23
            
            The General is not named among the incorporators, but Burr's name is there.24 That leads us to suspect the active but covert participation of both from the start.
                    Moreover the provisions of the act that led to the establishment of the bank betray Burr's
                    handiwork. A few years before, while a member of the 
                        New York
                     assembly, he had procured the passage of a charter for the Manhattan Company, a
                    corporation that was created ostensibly to supply 
                        New York
                     with pure water.25 The earlier company never busied itself with
                    water, unless in connection with its stock, nor did its Indiana fellow. Incidentally the wily
                    projector of the ruse profited little or nothing from either scheme.
            
               
                  22
                        Laws of Indiana Territory (1801-1806), 85-38. The entire law covers fifteen
                        pages.
               
                  23
                        Palladium, November 18, 1805.
               
                  24 The names of the first directors are: George B. Clark, John 
                            Brown
                        , Jonathan 
                            Dayton
                        , A. Burr, B. Hovey, Davis Floyd, Josiah Stephens, William Croghan, Samuel Gwathmey,
                        John Harrison, Marston G. Clark, and Samuel Vance.
               
                  25 M. L. Davis, Memoirs of Aaron Burr, I,
                    413-417.
            
            
            Shortly after the incorporation of the Indiana company, Burr returned from 
                        New Orleans
                     and journeyed through the southern part of the territory to 
                        St. Louis
                    . Here he passed several days in mysterious converse with Wilkinson.26 Then he proceeded to 
                        Vincennes
                     bearing an urgent request, almost a command from Wilkinson to Harrison that the latter
                    should send Burr to Congress from Indiana. The ex-Vice President reported that Harrison showed him
                    every evidence of good will but he "had no conversation on the subject you
                    mentioned," and he added: "Governor Harrison, with whom I am more and more
                    pleased, will tell you of a letter I have received from 
                        Dayton
                    . This Harrison is fit for other things."27
            
            It was the privilege of the American people, a generation later, to confirm Burr's opinion.
                    That worthy, however, did not have the presidency in mind when he wrote. He probably rated the
                    territorial executive as a good prospect for service in Mexico. What he meant by the reference to 
                        Dayton
                     we cannot tell. Possibly it was the errant canal project. But he continued his journey
                    eastward without disclosing further activity in its behalf.
            The opponents of the newly chartered enterprise were not equally considerate. 
                        Kentucky
                     it seems had been threatened with a similar corporation. An act to incorporate an
                    insurance company, passed in 1802, had also authorized the establishment of a bank. After exciting
                    discussion in the fall of 1805, the act was repealed over the Governor's veto.8 While the controversy was on, those who favored the repeal also turned their
                    fire on Hovey's project, as sponsored by Burr, Wilkinson, 
                        Brown
                    , et al. They contended that the northern bank of the river was less
                    suitable as a canal site than the other and characterized the whole scheme as a speculative measure,
                    whose promotors might possibly cut a mill race but who really aimed to set up a commercial and
                    banking house. These promoters, they asserted, planned to pay for their stock in lands, sell out for
                    cash and thus realize a good price for their real estate holdings. It had been reported that Yankee
                    capital was engaged in the enterprise. Judging from 
                  
                     26 W. F. McCaleb, The Aaron Burr Conspiracy, 34; American State Papers, Misc., I, 571-579.
                  
                     27
                            Burr's Conspiracy Exposed, Appx., 2, 8.
                  
                     28
                            Palladium, November 25, December 9, 16, 1805.
               
                     such Yankee specimens as were already in the country they
                    augured no great advantage from this feature.29
            
            In answer to this attack four directors of the Indiana Company signed a statement repudiating the
                    charge that the major part of the subscriptions were in lands. Most of the $200,000 of
                    capital stock had been subscribed in 
                        Louisville
                    , and not a cent of that subscription was in real estate. Those directing the company,
                    they explained, had quickly come to the conclusion that there was not enough ready money in the
                    Western Country for such an undertaking and as it was a matter of importance both to the East and
                    the West, they had opened subscriptions in the eastern cities as well. In turn they expressed their
                    regret that those who were behind the rival 
                        Kentucky
                     canal had not better informed themselves about their task, so as to carry it out to
                        advantage.30
            
            The controversy over the canals was mixed up with the struggle to repeal the Insurance Act. A
                    correspondent styling himself "A Yankee" charged that the legislature of 
                        Kentucky
                     by repealing this act, had cast doubt on all contracts with that body, so the promoters
                    had to go elsewhere.31 In reply, "A Kentuckian," later
                    identified as Fortunatus Crosby, pointed out that the repeal of the Insurance Act in the fall of
                    1805 could not possibly have influenced Hovey and his associates a year before. The real reason that
                    led them to seek a charter from Indiana was that they expected more favorable terms there than in an
                    older state like 
                        Kentucky
                     and the event proved that they were right.
            The controversy readily became personal. Statements of Hovey were matched by opinions of Jared
                    Brooks, engineer for the 
                        Ohio
                     Canal Company, the 
                        Kentucky
                     corporation. When "Yankee" quotes Wilkinson,
                    "Kentuckian" laments that the other is so imprudent as to undertake a defense of
                    the General. Brown and Burr also came in for "Kentuckian's" censure. The
                    method of introducing their bill into Congress was reprehensible. It was not fitting, he thought,
                    for the Vice President, who was personally interested, to appoint as members of the committee those
                    who were to profit from it. 
                        Brown
                    's course was still more censurable, for he was working against the interests
                    of his own state.32
            
            
               
                  29
                        Ibid., November 18, 1805.
               
                  30
                        Ibid., December 9, 1805.
               
                        31
                        Ibid.
                    
               
                  32
                        Ibid., December 16, 1805.
            
            
            Burr was too far away to answer his detractor; nor is it likely that he would have broken his
                    customary silence had he been in a position to make reply. 
                        Brown
                     however was spurred to protest against "Kentuckian's"
                    insinuations. He claimed that he was not associated with Hovey's projects while a member of
                    the Senate. After Congress adjourned and he became a private citizen he felt at liberty to engage in
                    an enterprise of such public service and private emolument, but to the moment of writing he had only
                    advanced $260— his share toward the expense of making the survey and obtaining
                    the charter. He pointed out that the committee in question was not appointed by the Vice President,
                    but by the Senate as a whole and asserted that corruption did not accompany that appointment unless
                    his critic thought the entire Senate corrupt. 
                        Brown
                     accompanied his disclaimer with an affidavit of Hovey to the same effect, and a
                    quotation from 
                        Dayton
                    's official report mentioning the general importance of the project.38
            
            "Kentuckian" retorted that his charges were based on statements by Hovey, on whom 
                        Brown
                     also relied for justification. He professed to be anxious to give the ex-senator a
                    chance to explain the transaction.34 A few days later 
                        Brown
                     learned who his traducer was and called on him for satisfactory proofs that he had
                    bartered away the interests of his constituents, and defied him to show an instance of such betrayal
                    in his whole twenty years of public service.35 The other countered by asking for
                    a few weeks indulgence when the proofs would be forthcoming. He still persisted in his contention
                    that speculation had chiefly inspired the suspected associates and that this purpose, not yet
                    denied, was currently believed.36
            
            Finding his critic indisposed to accept the testimony already submitted, 
                        Brown
                     on April 10, 1806 published statements from General Wilkinson that he hoped would
                    remove every doubt. "From the great respectability of General Wilkinson's
                    character," he wrote, "the unequivocal testimony he has given in my favor cannot
                    fail to remove any suspicions and misrepresentations from the misuse of my name." Wilkinson
                    stated that he had accidently met Hovey in November, 
                  
                     33
                            Ibid., December 23, 1805.
                  
                     34
                            Ibid., January 2, 1806.
                  
                     35
                            Ibid., January 9, 1806.
                  
                     36
                            Ibid., February 20, 1806.
               
                     1804, at the home of Secretary 
                        Dearborn
                     of the War Department. As a result of this chance meeting, he was induced to write a
                    letter commending the canal project. He then had no knowledge of any other; was interested in the
                    development of the western country; and later, "owing to the seductions of his sanguine
                    temperament" agreed to take "some concern" in the canal and also to
                    interest 
                        Brown
                     in it—after Congress should adjourn. Later Wilkinson's
                    "public engagements" made his withdrawal expedient and now he had no interest or
                    collateral in the canal and offered this declaration to exonerate himself.37
            
            It is doubtful if these published statements fulfilled 
                        Brown
                    's expectations. The subsequent history of the Indiana Canal Company, conformed
                    too closely to the predictions of its opponents; it became the banking corporation that they
                    prophesied and that alone. When a score of years later, a canal flanked the obtrusive falls, it was
                    located on the 
                        Kentucky
                     side. Few promoters of the other project regained political favor.38 Neither 
                        Brown
                     nor 
                        Dayton
                     reentered public life, while their speculative associates, Burr and Wilkinson, tasted
                    the very dregs of public disapproval. This, however, was the result of further developments in which
                    Indiana's chief victim was Davis Floyd.
            We have already noted Floyd's connection with the Canal Company. He states that he first met
                    Burr at 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , in 1805, at the home of Judge Thomas T. Davis, and that he saw Burr frequently in 
                        Washington
                     during the following winter. On the passage of the "Two Million Act,"
                    Burr told him that he could settle the boundaries of the 
                        United States
                     for half that sum.39 By this he doubtless meant that his project
                    for invading Mexico could be carried out for less than a million dollars. Late in the winter of 1806
                    Floyd bore a letter from Burr to Edward W. Tupper of Marietta, who had offered his services in case
                    of a war with 
                        Spain
                    , and a gift of books on military tactics accompanied the missive.40
                    From these activities, as emphasized in subsequent disclosures, we may infer that Floyd knew in
                    substance Burr's plans to invade Mexico.
            Even so, he had the others assurance that nothing was intended against the Government, but that on
                    the contrary, the 
                  
                     37
                            Ibid., April 10, 1806.
                  
                     38 See note 24, above.
                  
                     39 Wilkinson Papers, IV, 129 (MSS., 
                                Chicago
                             Historical Society).
                  
                     40
                            Quarterly Publication of the Historical and Philosophical Society of 
                                    Ohio
                                
                     , IX, 15.
               
                     cabinet officers knew of his views and that they were to be
                    kept secret because it would cost the 
                        United States
                     less to take Mexico by surprise. These statements were further confirmed when in the
                    late summer of 1806 Burr came West a second time. He then showed Floyd and William Prince of 
                        Vincennes
                    , another prospective associate, a letter purporting to come from the Secretary of War,
                    that implied approval of his course. This letter, which was also shown to Judge Davis, apparently
                    convinced all three that Burr's intentions were honorable.41
            
            This visit was made to 
                        Jeffersonville
                     in September, 1806. Immediately thereafter Floyd sounded one David Fisk about taking
                    part in a proposed settlement on the Washita.42 Burr was already negotiating
                    with a Colonel Charles Lynch for the so-called Bastrop Grant on that river and shortly made a
                    substantial payment on his purchase.43 We may regard this transaction as a mere
                    modification of Burr's original purpose, made necessary by the prospect of continued peace
                    with 
                        Spain
                    . If successful he would find himself in a few months on the 
                        Louisiana
                     frontier at the head of several score of vigorous young men who might serve him as
                    colonists or form the nucleus of a force to invade Mexico. Floyd, at least, heartily accepted the
                    role now prepared for him and was reputed to be the "quartermaster general" for
                    the widely heralded but dubious enterprise. As such he was successful in enlisting some thirty
                    recruits before the expedition started.
            Floyd next figured in the first hearing of Burr before a federal jury at 
                        Frankfort
                    . Joseph 
                        Hamilton
                     Daveiss, the district attorney, evidently hoping to discomfit his political enemies and
                    possibily to compromise the President, endeavored to fix upon Burr the charge of setting on foot an
                    expedition against Mexico. He was unable to press the charge largely, as he claimed, because of the
                    absence of Davis Floyd, his chief witness. The latter was then attending the sessions of the Indiana
                    Legislature, and as Daveiss asserted was his "principal witness as to stores and supplies
                    engaged and engaging."44
            
            A few days after this fiasco Burr was at 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                  
                     41 Waller Taylor to [President Jefferson], September 16, 1807, in
                            "Bixby Collection" (MSS., 
                                Missouri
                             Historical Society, 
                                St. Louis
                            ).
                  
                     42
                            American State Papers, Misc., I, 524.
                  
                     43 W. F. McCaleb, The Burr Conspiracy, 83-85.
                  
                     44
                            Quarterly Publication of the Historical and Philosophical Society of 
                                    Ohio
                                
                     , XII, 99; Cf. also, McCaleb, Burr
                                Conspiracy, chap. VII.
               
                     then Floyd and William Prince, evidently perturbed by the
                    hearing and by the alarming rumors afloat, showed reluctance to follow him. Prince, indeed, told him
                    that if he could convince Governor Harrison that his views were legal they would no longer object to
                    going with him.45 On October 24, Burr had written Harrison, just as he had
                    previously written Andrew Jackson, when news came to the Ohio Valley that the
                    Spaniards were invading Orleans Territory, urging him to get his militia in readiness for a war with 
                        Spain
                    . Now upon the prompting of his two agents and perhaps, too, because he heard that he
                    was for a second time to be arraigned before a grand jury at 
                        Frankfort
                    , he wrote this vigorous disclaimer: 
                        Considering the various and extravagant reports which circulate concerning me, it may not be
                            unsatisfactory to you to be informed (and to you there can be no better source of
                            information than myself) that I have no wish or design to attempt a separation of the union,
                            that I have had no connection with any foreign power or government, that I never meditated
                            the introduction of any foreign power or influence into the 
                                United States
                            , or any parts of its territories, but on the contrary should repel with
                            indignation any proposition or measure having that tendency; in fine, that I have no project
                            or views hostile to the interests or tranquility or union of the 
                                United States
                            , or prejudicial to its government; and I pledge you my honor for the truth of
                            this declaration. It is true that I am engaged in an extensive speculation, and that with me
                            are associated some of your intimate and dearest friends. The objects are such as every man
                            of honor and every good citizen must approve. They have been communicated to several of the
                            principal officers of the government, particularly to one high in the confidence of the
                            administration. He has assured me my views would be grateful to the administration. Indeed,
                            from the nature of them it cannot be otherwise, and I have no doubt of having received your
                            active support, if a personal communication with you could have been had. Accident and
                            indispensable occupations have prevented me from visiting you for the purpose. This
                            explanation seemed due to the frankness of your character and your responsible station, to
                            my own feelings, and to the attachment with which your kindness and confidence had
                            influenced me. If I have ascribed to you a solicitude you have not felt, you will impute it
                            to the great value I place on your esteem, and I pray that you will always believe me to be
                            your faithful and affectionate friend.46
                  
                    
            
            He seemingly convinced the Governor and at least one of his wavering followers. Floyd continued to
                    busy himself in preparations for Burr's reputed colony on the Washita. One of the
                    prospective colonists, Robert Pryor of Sheppardsville, 
                  
                     45 See note 41, above.
                  
                     46 D. Clark, Proofs of the Corruption of General James
                                Wilkinson, Appx., 5, 9.
               
                    
                    
                        Kentucky
                    , later testified that he was hired by Floyd, together with several others, at
                    $12.50 per month and a bonus of 150 acres of land at the end of a year's
                    service. He was also to receive provisions and clothing for the period of service. The last item was
                    regarded by his interrogator as an unprecedented allowance in 
                        Kentucky
                     for a white man in civil service.
            Pryor was hired on the eighth or ninth of December and left 
                        Louisville
                     on the twelfth. He testified that there were twenty-four men in Floyd's boat
                    and that they had "arms enough for them all and perhaps more." Another states that
                    he saw no farming utensils, while several note the absence of women and children among the
                        colonists.47 After uniting with the contingent under Comfort Tyler and
                    Harman Blennerhassett, which had been forced suddenly to leave its rendezvous on the upper 
                        Ohio
                    , and after having joined the two boats brought down the Cumberland by Burr, the
                    combined flotilla consisted of nine boats manned by some sixty men.48 Of these
                    Floyd was credited with three boats and thirty men.
            Floyd and his fellow "officers" played a prominent part in the pitiful drama that
                    followed. One witness credits him with telling some of his men, before they reached the mouth of the 
                        Ohio
                    , that they were going to take 
                        Baton Rouge
                     and Mexico. When asked how they were going to do it with so few men, Floyd assured the
                    witness that a large party would unite with them at Natchez and that at the mouth of the Red River
                    Wilkinson would join them with his army.48a Floyd, if correctly reported, was
                    evidently trying to keep up the courage of his men. Burr already knew, before he left 
                        Tennessee
                    , that Wilkinson had made a truce with the Spaniards and that as a result there was
                    little prospect of immediate war with them. He may have thought it good policy, however, to let his
                    followers discuss the taking of 
                        Baton Rouge
                    , a widely advertised feat 
                  
                     47 Harry Toulmin, "Memorandum of depositions taken in the
                            town of 
                                Washington
                             in the 
                                Mississippi
                             Territory relative to the conduct of Colonel Burr", in Papers of James 
                                Madison
                            , XXX, 22391C (MSS.). Other testimony gives $10 and $12 a
                            month as the compensation and six months as the period of service. Cf. American
                                State Papers, Misc., I, 463, 466, 476. December 16 is mentioned as the day of
                            departure (ibid., 477). There are some references to a chest of muskets
                            with bayonets, extra pistols and other firearms in Floyd's boat (ibid., 465, 477), and these weapons, it is claimed, were later cast overboard or
                            hidden in the woods, when the boats were searched in 
                                Mississippi
                             Territory. A purchase by Burr of bar iron, hoes, mattocks is noted. Floyd had
                            earlier considered this purchase (ibid., 467).
                  
                     48 McCaleb, Burr Conspiracy, 256. One witness puts
                            the number on hearsay at 103 (American State Papers, Misc., I, 477).
                            Another reports the boat in which he journeyed as containing "Floyd, Ralston and
                            about fifteen others" (ibid., 467). Floyd's part of the
                            flotilla is stated as two boats and a batteau; possibly the boat of John
                            Berry (see note 69, below) was one of these. The boats were larger than customary craft and
                            later brought a good price in Natchez (ibid., 478).
                  48a Ibid., 524, 525. Burr evidently refrained from direct communication
                            with his men (ibid., 522).
               
                     that had been attempted two years before under much less
                    notable leadership.48b
            
            While in the vicinity of Fort Massac and the little garrison at Chickasaw Bluffs, Burr's
                    course did not betray any evident fear of the military, nor any individual distrust of the
                    commander-in-chief, his whilom associate. But far different was his reaction when he reached Bayou
                    Pierre, on the settled outskirts of 
                        Mississippi
                     Territory. He found that his prospective arrival had aroused there intense excitement,
                    due largely to the exaggerated reports circulated by Wilkinson and intensified by the
                    latter's preposterous activities in 
                        New Orleans
                    . Had Burr planned to go to that city, as some testimony indicated, he now gave over
                    that purpose, nor was it safe for him to venture too near Natchez. It was essential, however, to
                    learn the actual situation there and in the region to the southward. For this reason, then, we
                    believe, he sent Floyd and Alexander Ralston on ahead in a light boat and not to spy out the
                    military strength of 
                        Baton Rouge
                     and of Fort Adams.
            The two precursors passed the night of January 11 near the latter post. Their host, a Dr. John F.
                    Carmichael, stated that Ralston revealed to him their purpose to revolutionize West 
                        Florida
                    . But even his testimony shows that Burr was simply directing himself against the
                    Spanish government. Ten thousand men, he claims Ralston told him, were ready to join Burr. This is
                    too reminiscent of Wilkinson's exaggerated reports to be believed. But Burr, so the
                    testimony runs, had only a hundred and fifty, so as not to attract too much attention before taking 
                        Baton Rouge
                    . Ralston and Floyd, so the former reported, were on their way to 
                        New Orleans
                     where they expected to meet General John Adair of 
                        Kentucky
                    . The latter was journeying thither through the Indian country, but all three were to
                    confer with Wilkinson whom they expected to favor their plans.49
            
            If those plans still contemplated the invasion of Mexico, Carmichael's report of
                    Wilkinson's arbitrary arrests in 
                        New Orleans
                     speedily dissuaded them from going further in their pursuit. They returned to their
                    harassed Chief, who with his mystified "people" had taken up their position on the
                    west 
                  48b McCaleb, Burr Conspiracy, 266; I. J. Cox, The West 
                                    Florida
                                 Controversy, 150-163.
                  
                     49
                            Wilkinson's Memoirs, III, Appx., LXXXV. This testimony was later
                            denied by Ralston, who claimed that Carmichael was influenced to give it through some
                            "money transaction". See Letters in Relation to Burr's Conspiracy
                            (MSS., Library of Congress). The Newberry Library of 
                                Chicago
                             has a photostat reproduction of this volume of documents.
               
                     side of the 
                        Mississippi
                    , a few miles above Natchez. Here Floyd seems to have been active in taking measures to
                    meet unprovoked aggressions on the part of the overexcited 
                        Mississippi
                     militia. The last note (of dubious authenticity, indeed,) that Burr addressed to his
                    followers, bore the initials of Floyd along with those of Comfort Tyler.49a
            
            Meanwhile his ill-fated Chieftain, after conferences with the territorial authorities had submitted
                    to the civil authorities and after some two weeks delay was subjected to another hearing before a
                    grand jury. That body, having read statements from the leader and his followers—all to
                    the effect that their destination was the Washita—not only failed to bring in a verdict
                    against the former, but vigorously objected to the elaborate measures taken to apprehend him.
                    Notwithstanding this acquittal, Judge Thomas Rodney of the Territorial Supreme Court, who had
                    conducted the hearing, refused to release Burr from his bond.50 Finding Rodney
                    unwilling to act further, Judge Harry Toulmin of the Circuit Court of 
                  Washington County, Mississippi
                now took a hand in the proceedings. He issued a warrant for
                    the arrest of Burr, Blennerhasset, Floyd and Ralston, the last two largely on the testimony of Dr.
                    Carmichael, and personally examined Comfort Tyler.51 Burr had by this time fled
                    to escape kidnapping by Wilkinson's agents, but before leaving he visited his followers and
                    advised them to dispose of the property represented by the boats and provisions and to divide the
                    proceeds among themselves. He still assured them that they would get the lands that had been
                    promised them. With the flight of their leader the party, wrote an observer "frittered away
                    to nothing. Never perhaps, did an enterprise of such vast extent and aided by such a concentration
                    of intrigue, terminate in effects so truly contemptible."52
            
            But the quartet against whom indictments were pending could not vanish so completely. Judge Toulmin,
                    indeed, discovered some embarassment in disposing of those arrested, especially in determining where
                    they should be tried. It was expedient that the trial should occur where the evidence could best be
                    brought out and with the least harassment to 
                  
                     49a
                            American State Papers, Misc., I, 523, 570.
                  
                     50 McCaleb, Burr Conspiracy, Chap. X.
                  
                     51 Harry Toulmin to Captain P. P. Schuyler, February 2, 1807. See
                            Letters in Relation to Burr's Conspiracy.
                  
                     52
                            Liberty Hall and 
                                    Cincinnati
                                 Mercury, March 10, 1807.
               
                     the accused. On this basis, although at the expense of much
                    criticism for inconsiderateness, he committed Blennerhassett for trial in 
                        Virginia
                    . Ralston wished to be tried in 
                        Kentucky
                     and Floyd in Indiana, alleging in addition to legal residences in that state and
                    territory, respectively, the possibility of procuring the testimony of Judge Davis, who had been
                    shown by Burr a letter from the Secretary of War, countenancing the expedition as a measure secretly
                    favored by the government. But the chief evidence against them, Toulmin claimed, was that of Doctor
                    Carmichael, while the testimony of Judge Davis granted they could get it, would not acquit them.
                    Hence Toulmin committed them for trial in 
                        Mississippi
                     territory, before a court of oyer and terminer especially summoned for that purpose.
            Judge Toulmin was roundly abused, so he reported, as a tool of General Wilkinson, although he had
                    never seen the latter nor had he had any communication with him. The General, however, regarded
                    Toulmin as a most loyal judge.53 In a letter to President Jefferson, February
                    13, 1807, Wilkinson mentioned that while his plan to seize Burr had been frustrated, Floyd and the
                    other three should not escape. He promised, if they were arrested, to send them around to the seat
                    of government. On March 1, recurring to the topic, he asserted: "Should these men be left
                    to the mummery of a trial, before a tribunal which has no cognizance of their offences, they will
                    certainly be discharged." He urged the President to bring them before the Supreme Court of
                    the 
                        United States
                     by some regular process. Evidently he was becoming distrustful of his own methods. He
                    expressed confidence in Carmichael's testimony that Ralston and Floyd were accessories of
                    Burr, and privy to his "illicit designs", and recokned himself a target for their
                        malevolence.54
            
            On the very day that this letter was penned, Governor Williams was writing him: "Floyd has
                    given bail and started for 
                        Kentucky
                    ."55 The accused was fortunate in escaping the stormy
                    voyage to which the truculent General had condemned others. In May, Williams mentioned that
                    indictments had been returned against Floyd and Ralston in the 
                        Wilkinson County
                     Circuit, 
                        Mississippi
                    , where Carmichael lived, and he expected 
                  
                     53 Papers of James Wilkinson (MSS.), III., 21 1/2.
                  
                     54 Letters in Relation to Burr's Conspiracy (MSS.).
                  
                     55
                            Third Annual Report of the Director of the Department of Archives and History
                                of the State of 
                                    Mississippi
                                
                      (
                                Nashville
                            , 1905), 76.
               
                     their trial to take place there in the fall. But when in the
                    following August he learned that they were indicted in 
                        Richmond
                    , he reported that Floyd had left some time before for 
                        Kentucky
                    .56
            
            Floyd had gone to Indiana, of course, rather than 
                        Kentucky
                    , and there he finally underwent trial. Here he might expect fair treatment; nor was he
                    disappointed. In April, after his arrival home, Governor Harrison had written the President:
                    "I can truly affirm there is not a man in the territory who possesses more entirely my
                    confidence and esteem … nor do I believe there is a man who possesses a higher sense of
                    patriotism and more devotion to the Constitution of his country."57
                    Floyd needed this expression of confidence. His name appeared on the list of those who were to be
                    summoned as witnesses against Burr, provided they themselves were not to be put on trial. Other
                    In-dianians thus named were William Prince of 
                        Vincennes
                     and Judge Davis.58 The Judge felt impelled to write and ask a
                    friend to explain why he did not obey the summons. The subpoena reached him August 12, but summoned
                    him to appear in 
                        Richmond
                     on the third. The court of chancery, of which he was sole judge, was to meet in a few
                    days and he was also a member of the court that was to try Floyd. So he chose the duty immediately
                    before him and also detained one John Berry, who was a material witness against Floyd."
                    Possibly the presence of these witnesses at 
                        Richmond
                     might have affected the verdict against the chief defendant. Evidently Jefferson was
                    concerned at their absence and had written the Attorney General about it, for the latter replied,
                    September 8, 1807, that as the Indiana Court was to meet August 8, any interference would be of no
                    avail. "But I see no solid objection," he added, "against permitting them
                    to try Floyd in the Indiana Territory for acts of treason committed there, as they have first got
                    him in custody. His acquittal there would not be, I think, pleaded in bar to an indictment for acts
                        
                  
                     56
                            Ibid., 82.
                  
                     57 McCaleb, Burr Conspiracy, 282.
                  
                     58 Letters in Relation to Burr's Conspiracy (MSS.).
                  
                     59 Thomas T. Davis to [?], August 15, 1807, in ibid.
                            The John Berry mentioned lived in Indiana Territory some twelve miles from 
                                Jeffersonville
                            . He, like Floyd, was active in enlisting recruits and directed one of the boats
                            of the expedition, with the title of "Captain" by virtue of his skill as a
                            pilot. He told his recruits that they were also to resist the Spaniards, if the latter
                            invaded American territory (American State Papers, Misc., I, 463,
                        466.
               
                     done in 
                        Virginia
                     or 
                        Kentucky
                    . The record would show the offences not to be the same."60
            
            In Indiana therefore, Floyd was tried, convicted and sentenced to three hours in jail and a fine of
                    twenty dollars. One of the judges, Waller Taylor, thought it necessary to write the President about
                    this remarkable leniency. Floyd was principally convicted, he explained, on his own confession. The
                    expedition in which he was engaged was variously stated to be against Mexico and 
                        Baton Rouge
                    —both outside of the 
                        United States
                    ; but this undertaking had the approbation of the Government. In proof of this he cited
                    the letter which Burr had shown Judge Thomas Davis. Judge Taylor was also impressed by the letter
                    that Floyd and Prince had obtained from Burr and that had convinced Governor Harrison of the
                    latter's loyalty.61 This letter Taylor had copied and sent to the
                    President. Moreover the court took Floyd's indebtedness into consideration. If they imposed
                    a heavy fine on him, it would injure both his family and his creditors. Nor could they give him more
                    than a nominal imprisonment, for there was not a jail in Indiana territory that would hold a man
                    twenty-four hours against his will.
            Taylor did not close his lengthy explanation without putting in a word for himself. He had already
                    applied for the receivership of public monies in the land office at 
                        Jeffersonville
                    —an office that he desired to hold in addition to his present one. He
                    preferred, he added, to live in 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , if he could do so with profit, but he assured the President that any action the latter
                    took would be agreeable to him.62
            
            But that incident was not yet closed. A few days after the trial the Indiana Legislature elected
                    Floyd as clerk of the lower House. Public outcry, emanating from 
                        Clark County
                     and furthered by the editor of the Western World, promptly condemned
                    as Burrites those who were responsible for his election and even attacked Governor Harrison who had
                    publicly dared to express his belief in Floyd's innocence. But expression on the other side
                    was equally loud and dogmatic. The two representatives from 
                        Knox County
                     asserted that they had "acted as becoming [their] stations, and as any
                    independent honest man would have acted in similar circumstances." 
                  
                     60 Caesar A. Rodney to President Jefferson, Papers of James 
                                Madison
                             (MSS.). XXX, 19607.
                  
                     61 See note 46, above.
                  
                     62 Waller Taylor to President Jefferson, September 16, 1807. See note
                            43 above.
               
                     Burr had declared that his plans were in no way inimical to the 
                        United States
                     and that his sole object was "to break the chains, and lose the yoke of a part
                    of our fellow human species who ever have been, now are, and ever will (from appearances) be kept in
                    the most abject political and religious bondage." His followers were guilty simply of
                    following him, and if in so doing they were weak and credulous, they should be
                    pardoned rather than hounded out of society. As representatives of the people they were empowered,
                    when they lacked express instructions from a majority of their constituents, to act as they thought
                    right. Moreover the personnel of subordinate officers of the legislature bore no relation to the
                    general good of the community. The fact that a man merely went down the 
                        Ohio
                     with some of Burr's boats and later was chosen clerk of the House of
                    Representatives did not make all members of that body Burrites or all their acts
                    "Burritical." Four candidates, they explained, were considered for the post; two
                    of them withdrew in favor of Floyd and he was preferable to the fourth. They promised that a report,
                    shortly to appear, would show that Floyd had been undeservedly indicted and that his conduct did not
                    merit the censure attached to it.63
            
            The promised statement, evidently that signed by "Broken Blunderbuss," is in
                    keeping with the suggestive pen name. With labored humor the writer endeavors to show that neither
                    Floyd, nor his seductive principal, nor the Governor who expressed his belief in the
                    former's innocence, was guilty of treason, and insinuates that one of the jurors, who was a
                    personal enemy of Floyd, influenced his fellows to return the verdict against him.64 Next came a series of resolutions adopted by "a numerous and respectable meeting
                    of the citizens of the county of 
                        Knox
                    ," on January 4,1808. The committee that reported them was named on the motion
                    of John Johnson, Floyd's defeated competitor. The resolution mentioned the severe comments
                    in the press of the country on the conduct of two of the judges, because of their lenient action in
                    Floyd's case, and of the Legislature for appointing him as its clerk, and regretted the
                    natural imputation that the people of the territory were implicated in Burr's schemes.
                    While 
                  
                     63
                            Western Sun (Vineennes), November 17, 1807. For material used in preparing
                            this paper, I am especially indebted to Miss Esther U. McNitt and her associates of the
                            Indians State Library for their courteous aid.
                  
                     64
                            Western Sun, November 25, December 16, 1807.
               
                     forbearing to comment on the action of the judges, they
                    strongly disapproved that of the Legislature, reiterated their attachment to the Constitution and
                    Government of the 
                        United States
                    , invited similar expressions of sentiment from the other parts of the territory, and
                    hoped that their resolutions would completely vindicate the people of their own county.65
            
            Evidently their brethern in the 
                        Illinois
                     country continued to doubt their attachment to the Government of the 
                        United States
                     and six weeks later a committee headed by William Morrison, reiterating their devotion
                    to country and government, claimed that the Burrites in their midst were "few in number,
                    insignificant in talent and equally contemptible in character and principle." They also
                    disavowed and disapproved Floyd's selection, which was made while the members from their
                    section were absent from the Legislature and because they were thus ignored, professed to look upon
                    the continued connection with the eastern part of the territory as a grievance. This assertion
                    reveals the spirit that largely inspired their resolutions. Triplicate copies were made of the
                    statements to be sent to President Jefferson and to the editors of the Western
                    World and of the Western Sun.
               66
            
            In the last named paper there also appeared another effusion from "Broken
                    Blunderbuss," who poured still further contempt on "the little editor" of
                    the Western World and other traducers of Floyd and then promised to leave the
                    subject." Floyd's enemies issued a satirical pamphlet in response to one in his
                    favor which reviled his supporters roundly, and then turned their diatribes on Jonathan Jennings.
                    This led "Sand and Rosin" to defend the latter, while incidentally mentioning the
                    ill-deserved attack on Floyd." With this shifting of personnel, the latter loses much of
                    his accidental importance.
            Floyd does not wholly disappear from view nor was the controversy that raged about him forgotten. In
                    1810 William Prince, his whilom associate, became its target. He appealed to the Legislature for
                    vindication and on December 6, 1810, a committee of which General William Johnston was chairman
                        
                  
                     65
                            Ibid., January 6. 1808.
                  
                     66
                            Ibid., March 28, 1808.
                  
                            67
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     68
                            Ibid., April 6, April 20, 1808.
               
                     man reported that after faithful examination they could find
                    nothing criminal in Prince's reported connection with Aaron Burr, nor in that of
                    "any person who has heretofore received executive patronage." This expression, be
                    it noted, might include Floyd. Harrison was still governor of the territory and the affair was still
                    fresh in men's minds. Prince, indeed, then made his claim that he was one of the first
                    through General Harrison to bring Burr's movements to the attention of the Government.69
            
            In an advertisement in the Western Sun, running during April and May, 1812, Floyd
                    tendered his services to the public as attorney and counsellor at law.70 During
                    Governor Posey's administration his name was suggested as territorial treasurer but his
                    appointment was not confirmed largely because of the opposition of Jonathan Jennings. During the
                    latter's administration, however, Floyd was appointed circuit judge—an
                    appointment that aroused the criticism of Jen-ning's opponents. In July, 1822, both men
                    announced themselves as candidates for congress, to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of
                    William Hendricks. This brought up a question of constitutionality for both were then holding other
                    offices. Shortly afterward, it appears, Floyd was appointed to an office in 
                        Florida
                     and never returned to Indiana.71 Thus passed from an important
                    stage of the Burr Conspiracy, the only one of his associates who was ever convicted for
                    participation therein. His conviction, be it noted, did not prove an insuperable barrier to further
                    advancement.
            
               
                  69 Broadside statement of William Prince, July 20, 1822, bound with volume
                        XIV of the Western Sun and General Advertiser in the Indiana State Library.
               
                  70 He has been styled not a great lawyer but a satisfactory judge. See, L.
                        J. Monks, Courts and Lawyers of Indiana (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1916), I, 62, 63.
               
                  71
                        Western Sun and General Advertiser, May 18, June 5, July 24, 1810. Cf. alao, Monks, Courts and Lawyers of Indiana.
               
            
         
         
         
            The Indiana Magazine of History: A Retrospect.
            By GEO. S. COTTMAN
            This issue of the Indiana Magazine of History rounds out for the publication its
                    first quarter of a century, and, in view of that fact, I am asked to write an account of the first
                    cause and beginning of it, since I was the fond parent in the case. "Fond" in this
                    connection is somewhat hackneyed, but I use it advisedly, for if there had not been considerable
                    fondness back of this particular parentage nothing ever would have materialized. The zest I felt in
                    the process of bringing it into being was its own and only reward in a sense, for there certainly
                    was no incentive of a monetary nature.
            As for the "first cause," that makes a little preliminary story. It was twofold. To
                    begin with, I happened to be one of those human freaks occasionally perpetrated by nature who elect
                    to do what they like to do regardless of emoluments. To the man built this way, who can waive such
                    an inconsequential matter as the problem of living, all things are possible. That is why when I
                    drifted into the antiquarian field with its world of mellowed charms refracted from other days I was
                    enabled to chase up and down the country on a bicycle or otherwise, snooping into everything that
                    had an ancient flavor, interviewing pioneers, and reveling generally in that enchantment lent by
                    distance. Incidentally the newspapers —specifically the old 
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         Journal, the 
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         News and the 
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         Press (while the latter lasted) — aided and abetted me by admitting
                    to their columns history feature articles "at so much per."
            From these excursions I gathered one fact of particular interest, which was that here and there in
                    odd corners of the State were hidden away in private possession many historical treasures that
                    should be in public archives, and the peak of the adventure was when the seeker stumbled
                    unexpectedly on some rare find; as, for example, when I once made a bicycle trip up the
                        Wabash and Mississinewa rivers from 
                        Lafayette
                     to 
                        Marion
                    . At 
                        Lafayette
                     I learned through a friend of a large collection of pictures from the brush and pencil
                    of George Winter, Indiana's first artist of note, most of which were first-hand
                    representations  of Indian scenes and characters done while the
                    Indians were still here. These were in the possession of Winter's daughter, who had held
                    them for many years, packed away, but by proper introduction I secured access to them and gave them
                    newspaper publicity. At 
                        Logansport
                     I found Charles B. Lasselle and his collection of documents and relics which fairly
                    filled a large room. In the same town Judge Horace P. Biddle, then in his old age, occupied a house
                    of several rooms all crowded with books more or less rare, old newspaper files and innumerable
                    historical curios. On the Mississinewa, a short way above Peru, lived Gabriel Godfroy, the most
                    notable Miami Indian left in the state, who in himself was a storehouse of aborignal lore and who
                    had preserved many Indian relics. Further on was the old-time home and grave of Francis Slocum, the
                    white captive, whose story makes one of the most romantic episodes of Indiana history, and at the
                    village of 
                        Jalapa
                     near the Mississinewa battle ground still lingered a venerable resident who still kept
                    alive pioneer memories of that region. I may add here that much of the Lasselle and Biddle material
                    eventually found its way to the Indiana State Library, but it is a matter for undying regret that
                    not a vestige of George Winter's unique Indian collection was ever secured to the State,
                    some 
                        Chicago
                     institution, I am told, having a better appreciation of its value.
            These were but some of the things of historical value that I ran across from time to time. All that I
                    could do was to give them a little ephemeral publicity, talk out into space about the State securing
                    them before it was too late, and say caustic things anent the universal stupid indifference that up
                    to that time had characterized Indiana in this particular direction. It must be borne in mind that
                    there was then no state Archives Department, no Historical Bureau, nor any organized body or
                    movement to take in hand the needed work of salvaging the residua of the past. An
                    occasional sporadic county historical society appeared, to lead a feeble existence for a while, and
                    the State Historical Society, though it had a tenacity of life equal to that of the Democratic
                    party, was, virtually, a homeless nomad unprepared to do more than hold occasional meetings and
                    publish monographs when there chanced to be a little money in the treasury. Meanwhile, then and
                    through all the previous years, precious material  bearing upon
                    the history of Indiana steadily went the way of all junk.
            In the face of these conditions it was borne in upon me that nothing short of a periodical devoted to
                    the subject would contribute in the slightest to building up a real interest in the State's
                    history. Newspaper articles are too fugitive, because everything in a newspaper is lost and
                    forgotten by next day. In addition to this in newspaper feature articles the integrity of history is
                    constantly imperiled by the journalistic ideal, which is, to hew to a good story, let the facts fall
                    as they may. On the other hand the financial success of a historical John-in-the-Wilderness was
                    worse than doubtful. It had already been tried, for several years before The
                    Indianan, a monthly magazine, edited by W. H. Smith, well known as a historical writer, had
                    been lanuched, and after waging the struggle for existence a while was reabsorbed in Nirvana,
                    converting sundry stockholders into bag holders. However, The Indianian had to pay
                    an editor, a business manager and the printer, and the happy idea occurred to me that these three
                    sources of expense might all be eliminated. I myself would be editor, business manager and printer,
                    since I belonged to the latter craft, along with such other functionaries as might be necessary.
                    Thus all bills against the concern would be flexible and according to income. Perhaps my leaning to
                    this line of reasoning was more or less influenced by the sneaking idea that a magazine such as I
                    contemplated not only would edify all who partook of its quarterly doses but would perpetuate the
                    memory of myself, who otherwise was in danger of getting lost in time's shuffle. Most folks
                    use tombstones for such perpetuation, but a tombstone is an unprofitable investment owing to the
                    brevity of the reading matter and the few who read even that. It is poor publicity. A history
                    magazine, on the contrary, is put into the archives along with other rare things. Like wine, the
                    older it grows the better it is, and it will be resorted to by history students forever and forever,
                    or at least until the wood pulp it is printed on disintegrates. Generations of students can not help
                    seeing one's name on the title page, or wherever it may chance to be printed, and what more
                    could be desired by a ghostly "has-been" after he has ceased to function?
            So much for the "first cause," which brought about the  determination to start a little magazine that should serve a need,
                    whether or no it was a "long felt want." A score or so of other States had their
                    organs for promoting interest in local history, and sooner or later Indiana must join the
                    procession. Eventually, why not now? One thing made it feasible for me to father such an enterprise.
                    As said before I was a member of the printing craft, and I was likewise the owner of a small
                    printing outfit housed in my back yard. I could, at least as a starter, compass the mechanical end
                    of the work. Certain it was that the start would have to be made, if at all, without capital, and it
                    was equally certain that, having a wife and child to answer for on judgment day my little printing
                    press had to earn something on the side. I spent several months canvassing the question from all
                    angles. I consulted various friends, most of whom greeted my proposed venture with commiserating
                    smiles, but I found one who was so interested in the proposition that he freely offered to cooperate
                    by trying to work up a preliminary subscription list among his many acquaintances—a
                    service I never could have accomplished myself. This was Mr. W. E. Henry, then State Librarian, and
                    this explains how it comes that his name as "manager" appears on the covers of the
                    first four issues.
            Mr. Henry's private soliciting was supplemented by a Prospectus sent out
                    to editors over the State, and to others, advertising the proposed publication and forestalling the
                    suspicion of an advertising scheme by the following statement: 
                        The publication will be strictly what it purports to be at the start— a magazine
                            devoted to the preservation of matter that is of real value to the historical student. There
                            will be no space given to advertising "write-ups," and no cheap padding.
                            Of matter within its legitimate field there is an abundance, and outside this field it will
                            make no bid for popular favor.
                    
            
            This declaration of principles seemed to commend the venture to not a few editors, and in one of my
                    private scrap-books there is preserved some rather flattering editorial pats on the back. There were
                    also some more substantial services. The 
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         News, through Mr. Hilton 
                        Brown
                    , its general manager, offered to reproduce in half-tones or zinc etchings, such
                    illustrations as I might want to use, while Mr. William Forsyth, now recognized as the dean of
                    Indiana artists, volunteered a decorative border design for the magazine  cover, which in its character was both artistic and appropriately
                    historical. When I had my private files bound I saw to it that those covers were retained as
                    constituting one of the values of the volumes. I dare say few have done the same, as it is customary
                    in the binding of magazines to discard the covers.
            All in all the preliminary encouragement was sufficient to induce the actual launching of the
                    magazine, and this was done with the frank announcement that the first year would be simply
                    experimental. If at the end of that time it was found that it would be supported, well and good. The
                    difficulties attending the first issue are set forth in a facetious effusion inserted at the end of
                    that number, but afterward eliminated from all but a very few copies. Since laughing in the face of
                    discouragement has its psychological value I emitted this guffaw much as that strange bird, the
                    laughing jackass, cachinnates aimlessly out into space. After it was done my wife pointed out that
                    this magazine was nothing if not dignified, and that such levity was not dignified. As she had
                    faithfully helped me get out the issue by folding and collating innumerable printed sheets I thought
                    some deference was due her, so I cut out the final contribution as superfluous. Since then I have
                    also cut out all superfluous dignity as inimical to digestion, and accordingly here reinstate my
                    mirthless pleasantry, merely adding to it that my first edition was one thousand copies of sixty
                    pages, worked two pages at a time on a foot press: 
                        
                            A Word From the Factotum
                        
                        The Indiana Magazine of History has made its advent in the face of difficulties. It costs
                            something to bring a magazine into the world —even a little magazine like this
                            one, to say nothing of procuring sustenance for it after it has appeared. The ordinary
                            proceedure is to pay the printer roundly for very important preliminary services. This we
                            could not do, but chancing to be the happy possessor of an extensive plant which includes,
                            among other treasures, a pair of cases of long primer and an 8✗12 Gordon
                            Old-Style foot-press, we did the next best thing and proceeded to be our own printer, as
                            well as several other things.
                        If ever editor was entitled to flourish the ever-popular "we", it is we. We
                            have been redacteur, type-setter, pressman and binder; likewise
                            proprietor, foreman, devil and proof-reader. In the exercise of these multi-functions fate
                            tried to thwart us. First: Among the aforesaid treasures of our "plant"
                            was a stove that had originally been  used to smoke out
                            bees. It took us for a bee; so, until we could afford to break it with an ax, we set up our
                            pair of cases in the house and placidly continued to add to our type string at the rate of
                            $? per thousand ems; which, it may be added, is not the union scale. Then the
                            type ate holes in the end of our devoted thumb. We donned a silk cover, and are, perhaps,
                            the first printer on record to set type in a thumb-stall. If you don't know what
                            that means tell it to a typo and hear him express his opinion as to our veracity. Then there
                            were other things. But in the end malignant fate was thwarted by us.
                        The result is before you. If it has been tardy in materializing—if the mechanical
                            execution is not up to the high-grade magazine standard —if the contents seem
                            somewhat loosely selected and arranged, we ask our friends to consider the difficulties. To
                            pump off something more than thirty thousand impressions on a foot-power job press, applying
                            ink with a hand-brayer; to edit in the midst of mechanical perplexities; to make up copy,
                            while standing at the case in order to spare the time necessary for writing
                            it—these things, are not conducive to perfect results. Of course when our friends
                            have rallied properly to our support we expect all this to be changed. We will then let some
                            other printer peck our type while we devote ourselves to heavy editing and to the seeking
                            out of matter that can be secured only by time and labor. If this seems worth while to you
                            help us along with the ever-potent dollar, with an encouraging word, and by bringing our
                            magazine to the attention of some one else who may be interested. Your cooperation is
                            all-important, and it is for you to determine whether the publication can last beyond the
                            first year and become a permanent success. Having this success very much at heart we are
                            here to do our part with all our might and main.
                    
            
            This first number amply demonstrated one thing, which was that, with my equipment, being my own
                    printer was a little more than I had bargained for. Thereafter I farmed out that part of the work.
                    This meant that the larger part of the money from subscriptions went to another printer and the
                    duties of publisher, editor and general manager were carried on as a side line to my job printing
                    business. The subscription list ran to about three hundred, at one dollar per year. At the end of
                    the first year there was plenty of excuse for relegating the Indiana Magazine of
                        History to the limbo of dead things, along with innumerable other deceased publications,
                    but having nursed the infant thus long I hated to be a quitter and forsake it; so I attended to its
                    wants another year, and yet another. The task of preparing material was no light one, especially
                    much of the reprinting of documents, such as the 
                        Tipton
                     papers and the Fletcher and Banta series. These tasks meant many an evening spent in
                    copying them from old  newspapers at the city library. To add to
                    the handicap, there was much vexatious red tape and delay in securing second-class mailing
                    privileges, and, prior to June of 1906, the postage was at the rate of two cents per copy.
            At the end of the third year, I had to let go because of plans which involved my removal from
                    Indiana. Who would adopt the waif, or would it be adopted at all? In this crisis the Indiana
                    Historical Society came to the rescue, becoming sponsor for it, with the State Library as business
                    headquarters and Dr. Christopher B. Coleman, then a professor at 
                        Butler
                     College, as editor. In the latter capacity Dr. Coleman served for four years. Then I,
                    having returned to the land of my nativity, resumed the editorship with the issue of December, 1911.
                    This service continued through the issue of March, 1913, following which the Magazine was taken over by the Department of History of Indiana University. There it has since
                    had its home, with larger editorial possibilities than could exist under the previous conditions.
                    The Indiana Historical Society also still sustains a relationship to it, all members of that
                    organization being entitled to the Magazine, one-half of the membership dues being
                    turned over to the quarterly. The field of the publication has thus grown, and the original
                    subscription list of three hundred has expanded to about one thousand plus many library
                    subscriptions.
            In closing, I will say that when I contemplate the contents of that shelf in my library which is
                    devoted to the Indiana Magazine of History, I feel just a little glow of pride.
                    There is a long row of quarterly numbers—an even hundred when this last issue is added,
                    and, in the course of the twenty-five years represented, a good many assiduous students of our
                    history have been stimulated to search, write and publish. Within the last quarter of a century,
                    too, there has been a distinct and vigorous historical movement in our midst—Indiana has
                    redeemed herself from the reproach that so long lay at her door, and who can tell to what degree the
                        Magazine may have helped that growing interest. The part I played in
                    establishing a historical omnium-gatherum was, I suspect, somewhat crude, but it
                    did better than I had dared to hope for. I am satisfied.
         
         
         
            Some Gleamings From Monrovia
            By BESSIE JOHNSON SHOW ALTER
            
            Monrovia is located in the northern part of 
                        Morgan County
                    , Indiana. It is in 
                        Monroe
                     Township which explains the origin of the name. No railroad passes through it, but it
                    has a charm and a history which make it worthy of notice. Noah J. Major, author of Pioneers of 
                            Morgan County
                        
               , wrote regarding his own reminiscences: 
                        The prime object should be to pay a modest tribute of respect to the memories of the pioneers
                            'who, with brave hearts and mighty arms, built the first cabin homes in our county
                            and blazed the way to a higher civilization.
                    
            
            For the same reason, I care to recall some incidents gleaned from my own associations with a people
                    and with the scenes of a time when the pioneers were progressing from a primitive society into a new
                    stage of living, thought and action. Personally, I was best acquainted with Monrovia in the years
                    from 1878 to 1889. The older people that I knew were of those whose names have not found a place in
                    recorded history. They were not history writers but makers of history.
            My grandmother, Elizabeth Ann Bowman Johnson, is the heroine of my sketch. She was a descendant of
                    English, Scotch, and Irish ancestors. My grandfather was Hezekiah Johnson. He also had Irish blood
                    in his veins. He was tall, keen-eyed, thin-lipped and very ambitious. They came to Indiana in 1830
                    from 
                        North Carolina
                     walking a great part of the way, bringing their goods in a conestoga wagon. When they
                    arrived in Indiana, the young husband was twenty-six years of age and his sturdy, girl-wife but
                    nineteen. 
                        Indianapolis
                     was but a village at this time.
            Pioneers felled slender, straight trees in the forests, and cutting them into logs, built their homes
                    of these. They used clay to chink the cracks and to line the huge fire-place on one side of the
                    single-room dwelling. My father's diary says that they "used the forks of small
                    trees, poles and clapboards to make the rude open shed at one end of the cabin." The
                    chimney  on the outside extending above the comb of the roof was
                    constructed of properly split sticks and clay.
            Among the forested hills of 1830, roamed wild beasts— deer, wolves and wildcats. There
                    were wild turkeys in great numbers, quails and many other wild fowl. Pioneer families lived almost
                    by the hand of 
                        Providence
                    , in regard to meats. They did not need to fear the butcher's bill at the end
                    of the month.
            My grandfather and grandmother settled about one mile west of the spot where Monrovia was later
                    located. The fireplace in their cabin furnished the means for all cooking as well as heating. A
                    nearby spring supplied sufficient water for household and stock. The hickory and beech wood afforded
                    the fuel and it was believed added a flavor to the southern corn-pones, broiled vegetables, and
                    broiled venison. On the mantle-side hung pepper-pods and other plants saved for the seasoning of
                    foods. Occasionally in summer there appeared on the mantle-shelf, placed there for ornamentation, a
                    "poisonous" fruit, the tomato.
            When my father was a boy, he was sometimes detailed to go, carrying a covered iron pot, to fetch hot
                    coals from some neighbor's fireplace, often quite a distance away. Sometimes live coals
                    could be found nearer—when the fire under the big kettle in the yard was going for the
                    purpose of making soap; or, perchance, lye hominy was in the making or the family wash steaming.
            Four children were born to Hezekiah and Elizabeth Johnson. A group who came to help and be helped in
                    that frontier home. They were: Jessie B.; Ann E.; Benjamin 
                        Franklin
                    ; and Thomas E. (my father). My grandmother led a busy life caring for these children
                    and managing her frontier home. Household duties were many and exacting.
            Necessarily sheep were raised. The wool was made into yarn from which mittens and stockings for the
                    entire family were knitted. Flax was produced from which linen thread was spun. Woolen goods and
                    linsey-woolsey were woven from which many needful articles of clothing were manufactured by my
                    versatile grandmother. Blue and white wool creations were woven on the loom—coverlets for
                    the corded beds.
            For eight years the husband and wife planned and toiled together. Then, following a short sickness,
                    ascribed to the climate of the new country, my grandfather passed away at  the age of thirty-four. The widowed mother of four young children
                    continued on the farm for three years, the sole manager of farm and household. A multitude of duties
                    pertaining to pioneer farming were added to her tasks as housekeeper, but she carried her burden and
                    kept her children together.
            I have in my possession the candle-stick which my grandmother used. By the tiny flame of a candle of
                    her own making, she plied her needle night after night through many years as did thousands of busy
                    mothers of that interesting era. Her labors and responsibilities did not weigh her down nor quench
                    her spirit. Years later she recorded in her memorandum book: "I knew happiness
                    there."
            Three years after the death of her first husband, Hezekiah Johnson, my grandmother married William
                    Mull. The farm was sold arid they built a large house in Monrovia. They were among the early
                    founders of the town. "Aunt Betsy Mull," as grandmother came to be known,
                    ministered to many in the village and countryside until her death in 1888. Her lovely home was a
                    refuge not only for her family, but for all who were in sorrow or in need. It remained to her old
                    age, as I remember well, likewise a rendezvous for young folks. One child was born to my grandmother
                    after her second marriage —Lucretia Mull.
            My father attended the "loud" 
                        Quaker
                     school in a cabin. The pupils sat on long benches and studied their lessons aloud. My
                    grandfather was a 
                        Quaker
                     or Friend. A church sprang up in that wild forested country in 1832. The building was
                    near the site of Monrovia, and the Friends still maintain a church there.
            In the early eighteen forties, a Methodist church was built and dedicated in Monrovia. Grandmother
                    wore the 
                        Quaker
                     garb of gray cloth, with full-skirted dress and poke-bonnet. Years after she had joined
                    the "noisy" Methodist church with its new manner of worship, she used the speech
                    of a 
                        Quaker
                     matron. Fifty-eight years after she had accompanied her first husband, Hezekiah, to
                    Indiana she was buried in the little churchyard belonging to those of the 
                        Quaker
                     faith. The only difference that I ever noticed between her as a member of the Methodist
                    church and those who were 
                        Quaker
                     matrons was that she could not keep still in meeting. She sang well,  liked music in the service, prayed lound and fervently and led in
                    "class-meetin'." She also read much.
            In 1885, grandmother and her husband took me with them to the Methodist church. We all walked
                    together to the building, where we separated. Grandmother and I went in at one door and Mr. Mull at
                    the other. Yes, there were two entrances, one for women and one for men. Mr. Mull took his official
                    place in the "Amen corner". Grandmother and I sat in the opposite front corner on
                    the "facin' bench". The people in the general congregation were likewise
                    separated, the men occupying one-half and the women the other half of the seats in the main portion
                    of the "meetin' house".
            Sometimes near the close of a meeting, it was not unusual for grandmother, in an unassuming manner,
                    as though "moved by the spirit", to break forth in song. Perhaps it would be in
                    the words of the old tune: 
                        Come ye disconsolate, where'er ye languish, Come to the mercy seat, fervently kneel:
                            Here bring your wounded hearts, here tell your anguish; Earth hath no sorrows that Heaven
                            cannot heal.
                    Often many would come and kneel at the mourners' bench in front of the pulpit.
            Grandmother had a deep, spiritual insight into the natural harmonies of this work-a-day world. When
                    days were dark her "faith looked up", and the light burned so strong on her altar
                    of hope that others caught her vision and high idealism. She lies, as I have said above, asleep in
                    the little 
                        Quaker
                     graveyard near Monrovia beside the "meetin' house" which was
                    her first place of worship. Her quest for truth became a reality. Her creed found expression in her
                    daily doings. Her inner spirit unfolded. She was a pioneer in home making, in social life and also
                    in her church activities.
            In those days, much of the social life of the pioneers centered in barn-raisings, log-rollings,
                    corn-huskings, apple-peelings and other coöperative methods of performing frontier labor.
                    Often a dance occurred on the floor of the new barn—a sort of dedication of the completed
                    structure. There were "quiltin' bees" at which the women wielded their
                    needles with skill and rapidity and talked the town news at the same rate and with equal interest.
                    There was a great deal of all-day visiting. There was always "helping out" in
                    sickness.  There were "yearly
                    meetin's" and "quart'ly meetin's". Young
                    people met at ice-cream socials or parties. Those who had horses and wagons would often haul those
                    who were less fortunate. A popular song that went the rounds, "Get into the wagon, and
                    we'll all take a ride", was applicable to the situation.
            Many a young man rode horseback over a mud road, or perchance it was a corduroy road, to see his
                    sweetheart. Round, slender logs were often placed on a road, each log close to the next to form a
                    continuous covering like the floor of a bridge. This famous corduroy might extend but a few feet
                    eliminating a mud-hole, or it might extend a number of rods making a road passable through a low or
                    swampy area, or such a surfacing might cover a road-way for a long distance. In dry weather when
                    well covered with soil, such a road might be smooth and pleasant to drive over. When not well
                    covered with dirt or when the wheel tracks reached down to the timbers, a corduroy road was a rough
                    line over which to travel in any kind of conveyance with wheels.
            Pioneer Monrovia was not much behind 
                        Indianapolis
                     in those days, the State's capital being a small place, with no railroad train
                    entering the city until 1847. The streets were dirty and rough and even some of the main roads
                    leading to the capital were very primitive and often almost impassable. In 1858, my father, Thomas
                    E. Johnson, then a college youth, made a trip to Keokuk, 
                        Iowa
                    , to visit an older brother. While there he worked for a time on a boat that plied up
                    and down the 
                        Mississippi
                     from 
                        New Orleans
                     to Keokuk. He then kept a diary for a short period. On one of the pages, I find this
                    entry: "Shipped 75 barrels of whiskey to 
                        New Orleans
                     today. Am thinking of returning [home] and going to Asbury College [DePauw]."
            His reflections bore fruit for he returned to Indiana, went to 
                        Greencastle
                     in the fall of 1858 and re-entered college. He graduated from the Law School of old
                    Asbury in 1860. The commencement exercises for the law-class of four were held on Tuesday evening,
                    March 27. The class-mates of my father were: John T. Smith of Worthington, Indiana, S. F. Gilmore of 
                        Greencastle
                    , and A. G. Baber, of Fillmore, Indiana. Each graduate r&ve an address, as was
                    then the custom. The printed program indicates that T. E. Johnson's subject was
                    "Civil  Jurisprudence". In addition to the
                    four class orations, there was a debate between two citizens of 
                        Greencastle
                     [possibly they were both law students], the question being, "Are lawyers
                    proper persons to be intrusted with political power?" There was an address by W. Watson of 
                        Greencastle
                     on "The Legal Profession", and another by A. W. Beasley of
                            
                  West Urbana, Illinois
               , on "The American Lawyer". The last number
                    on the program was an "Address to the Graduates" by the Rev. Tho's
                    Bowman, D.D., after which the degrees were conferred. This widely known churchman and educator,
                    later a Bishop in the Methodist Episcopal Church, was at the time the President of Asbury College.
                    Young Johnson's mother was a cousin of President Bowman.
            My mother's maiden name was Rachel R. Marker. My parents were married in 1861. My maternal
                    grandfather was Curtis Marker, who moved to Monrovia with his family from Bellville soon after the
                    marriage of his daughter Rachel. His wife, my grandmother Marker, died when my mother was a small
                    child. Having acquired an education in the law and a wife, my father settled in "the
                    city" as 
                        Indianapolis
                     was termed in those days. Here he practiced law for forty years. He was a Republican
                    till the rise of the Liberal Republican movement when Grant was President. In 1872, he made speeches
                    for Greeley. From that campaign to his death, Thomas E. Johnson was a Democrat and a staunch
                    supporter of the principles of that party.
            George W. Julian, who was a friend of my father said of him: "He was honest, very methodical
                    and a deep thinker, made many friends, but was not fully appreciated". As I remember him
                    and came to understand him through many years, I would say that he was keen and far-sighted in his
                    analysis of problems pertaining to political economy and international relationships. His views on
                    problems of government and religion were sometimes regarded as extreme. For example, he antagonized
                    those who believe in Hell as a place of eternal torment. He declared that such a notion was contrary
                    to the Pauline doctrine, and that it was impossible for his mind to conjure up a punishment more
                    terrible than banishment from God forever.
            He believed that the proper way to carry the Christian religion to the natives of non-Christian lands
                    was to bring  persons from those countries to the 
                        United States
                    , or other Christian nations, educate them in the ways of a Christian people, and then
                    send them back home to do missionary work.
            He believed in "woman suffrage" and advocated giving the franchise to women when it
                    was unpopular to uphold that cause. He believed that 
                        Cuba
                     should be independent long before she was freed from Spanish domination. After the
                    Philippines were acquired, he wanted them to be given their independence.
            My father was intolerant of fiction, save as it might portray historic truth. Novels were not seen
                    among the books of his large library in our home. Late in life, David Copperfield
                    by Dickens and a few of the classics did creep upon his bookshelves. Biography, science, philosophy,
                    the plays of Shakespeare—these we might say comprised his favorite kinds of literature.
                    He always read late into the night, and had the habit of writing out his thoughts and opinions, but
                    not for publication. He often made political speeches in campaign years.
            My father lived until 1912, but my mother died in 1884. After her death, I went back to Monrovia to
                    live with my grandmother for two years. During this period in the quiet village, I knew the Bundys,
                    the parents of the famous Indiana artist John Bundy. It was here that this gifted painter learned to
                    appreciate the beauty of beech trees. His father and mother came in a covered wagon from 
                        North Carolina
                     shortly after 1850 when John was about six or seven years of age and settled on land
                    near Monrovia where beeches were plentiful. During my period in Monrovia, the artist was doing much
                    portrait work. A very fine portrait of my step-grandfather, William Mull, is his masterpiece in this
                    field of work. This picture will soon hang as an exhibit in the Art Institute at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Mr. Bundy also painted a portrait of my grandmother, at whose home he was not a
                    stranger.
            After my two years in Monrovia I returned to my father's home in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , but in the winter of 1887, I went back to the home of my grandmother for a visit, the
                    last before her death, which occurred in the summer of 1888. Let me describe the trip of 1887 and
                    record some of the things which were then stamped on my mind as a child. Monrovia was then as now
                    untouched by commercial enterprise. Going by rail from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                        Mooresville
                    , I alighted from the train at  4:30 one evening and
                    soon found a seat in "Old Joe's hack". This ancient conveyance had been
                    driven over the road from Monrovia to 
                        Mooresville
                     for many years by Joe Allison, who hauled people back and forth and carried the mail. I
                    recall that he also took back with him a bundle containing several copies of the 
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         News. We drove about seven miles southwest over a winding and somewhat rough
                    and hilly road. It was bordered by rail fences, not all of which have as yet disappeared.
            On the way we passed Gasburg, where once a planing-mill stood upon a hill. This
                    place was named after my uncle—a talker in his day. He afterwards owned a lumber yard in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and later the largest excelsior factory in the city. East of Monrovia we passed the
                    little 
                        Quaker
                     church, which still stands, and beside it the little "city of the
                    dead" with their low-marked resting places. A little farther along we passed the old grist
                    mill on the bank of the creek. Forty years ago that mill was a busy place, and the creek too seemed
                    very active. With the decadence of the mill, the creek likewise lost its importance—even
                    the sources of its water supply seem to have diminished. In a little while, the faithful horses
                    turned into the curving thoroughfare called "Main Street". There was a second
                    street in the village known as "Back Street".
            On either side of "Main Street", there were remaining sentinels of the primeval
                    forest that once covered the landscape. Their branches arched the street and intermingled. Smoke
                    issued from the side chimneys of the strange low houses. This is an out-standing picture in my mind,
                    stamped indelibly on my memory as we rumbled over the well-beaten, rocky street to my
                    grandmother's home. This was a long, two-story, white house. A light held at the curtained
                    window beckoned me to come in. Opening the big front-door, I stepped into the hall where the great
                    clock stood towering above me on the landing of the walnut stairway. Grandmother's beaming
                    face overshadowed by her white hair told me more than her words, "Glad to see
                    thee", could convey. Her home breathed hospitality. The huge 
                        Franklin
                     stove in which burned the crackling hickory wood would put to shame any
                    "Japanese incense burner" of today. On top of the stove was a thick soapstone
                    which was being heated to make my bed comfortable. In the parlor I espied the new four-legged piano
                         which had replaced the "melodeon",
                    recently relegated to an upstairs room.
            My bed was of the spindle, corded type, single, with a feather-mattress, and covered with an
                    attractive, homespun coverlet of blue. I tried one musical instrument and then another, and, like
                    Goldilocks in the story of the "three bears", one bed and then another. I turned
                    the hands of the big clock back so that bed-time would not come so fast. By this, I failed to stay
                    the march of time, for grandmother had another clock —a small one—which I had
                    forgotten. This little clock, I have now. Her table—we would call it a gate-leg
                    now-a-days —was covered with white linen and set with heavy iron-stone china in embossed
                    designs. Her silver was sterling and handmade.
            The use of glass-jars for canning purposes had become common some years earlier, and grandmother had
                    an ample supply of canned fruits. There was a supply of dried corn in addition to the stock that was
                    sealed-up. Pumpkin, formerly cut in strips, then dried and hung, was now stewed and stored in jars
                    with a covering of sorghum at the top of each container. Honey was packed in six-gallon stone jars,
                    while grapes were kept in sugar in jars of the same kind. Supplies like these were found in the
                    homes of all thrifty women, and they represented forethought and labor during many weeks of every
                    year. Indeed, the activities of pioneer women were numberless. They were always busy. There was no
                    season when they were free from outdoor and indoor tasks. When there was nothing else to do, they
                    sewed rags for carpets, pieced quilt-blocks, knitted lace bedspreads, and performed many other tasks
                    against future needs, seemingly considering such voluntary activities as furnishing needed
                    recreation.
            Perhaps before closing, I should mention some of my summer time experiences in Monrovia, and
                    incidentally other people of the village. One day, when I slipped through the garden and found my
                    way to the other street, "Back Street", a goat took after me but I fled unharmed
                    to the humble home of my grandfather Marker. He had come to Indiana from 
                        Delaware
                    . He was Scotch-Irish and Irish—more Irish than Scotch-Irish. He gave me a
                    handsome fork of those days— with a round wooden handle and two prongs. In his home, we
                    dined off of pewter plates. He was strict beyond measure in  the
                    enforcement of religious discipline. He was not even as lenient as grandmother Mull [Johnson].
                    Grandfather Marker was the father of eighteen children. He had to enforce rules of conduct. By
                    trade, he was a cabinetmaker. A grandson of his was the late Dr. Albert Shelton, medical missionary
                    in Thibet for thirty-five years.
            The surroundings at my grandmother's home left a deep impression on me. There was a roomy,
                    latticed porch, the shaded coolness of which was always welcome in summer. There was a deep well
                    under this porch and a pump which had supplanted the windlass and "old oaken
                    bucket" of earlier days. The gourd likewise gave way to the tin-cup, only to be replaced by
                    the glass mug in time. Beside the porch entrance a bell was suspended from which hung a rope. At
                    meal time, grandmother would ring this bell. Years before, when on the farm, she had given the
                    dinner call by means of blasts on a steer's horn fashioned for the purpose.
            Overhanging the path to the garden were tall pine trees, under which the ground was covered with pine
                    needles and strewn with brown cones. The pathway in the midst of the garden was bordered with tall
                    sweet smelling phlox, wherein its tiny lavender blossoms were hidden. On one side of the garden were
                    variegated hollyhocks, that invited me to pluck their flowers turn them inside out and tie their
                    petals down to form skirts for what then became queer, little yellow-headed dolls. There were also
                    rows of hardy blue larkspur, English columbines, marigolds, and zinnias of bright hues. Close by,
                    scenting the air, grew the sweet marjoram, spice-bush, peppermint and pennyroyal. Climbing along and
                    far above the white paling fence was a deep-red, rambler rose that gave off an exquisite perfume.
            The garden served more practical purposes, supplying a variety of foods for the table in season.
                    There were trenches of celery, a tree of waxy pears, one of black juicy cherries, and raspberry
                    bushes. It was a child's play-garden for me, such as was in the mind of Robert Louis
                    Stevenson. I would that every city child of the present might have the rich experience of lone hours
                    in the garden as I had in Monrovia. As Stevenson revealed in verse, the imagination could find full
                    play: 
                    
                        Up in the air and over the wall Till I can see so wide— Rivers and trees and and
                            cattle, and all Over the country side—
                    
            
            Time has taught me the deeper meaning of things. The hum of the bees in and about their hives and
                    over the blossoms, the calls and songs of the bluebird, the oriole, the meadow-lark and other
                    familiar bird friends, the sound of the blacksmith's hammer on the anvil—all
                    have resolved themselves into one grand symphony which my ear will never cease to hear, and whose
                    spell will always influence me to seek haunts of nature remote from the city.
         
         
         
            The Strange Story of How Capital Was Obtained for an Indiana Railroad
            By J. W. PARKER
            
            Sometimes in the cross currents of Life very little things seem to change the entire course of
                    events: a battle is said to have been won by the prick of a thistle; a Lord-Mayor made by the
                    croaking of a frog; a railroad built by the telling of a clever story.
            During the early fifties, when the first railroads were being constructed in Indiana, the communities
                    adjacent to and the residents of the cities of 
                  Richmond, Hagerstown, New Castle, Kokomo
                and 
                        Logansport
                     were exceedingly anxious to secure a railway. The canal and stage routes were coming to
                    offer poor competition to the railroads with the fast moving "Iron-horse", and it
                    seemed expedient that a railroad connecting these towns with the, then new, Indiana Central at 
                        Richmond
                    , should be built to open up this section of the State.
            Surveys for this route, and other routes as well, had been made. The plans had been before eastern
                    capitalists for several months without any decisive action being taken. The prospect for an early
                    start on the building of this newly proposed road did not look any too bright. Meetings of the
                    promoters of this new route were held in various towns and much discussion and correspondence from
                    West to East and East to West had not closed the deal. Finally, at one of these meetings, it was
                    decided that it would be best to send some prominent man, a man of affairs if possible, as an
                    emissary to the city of 
                        New York
                    , who, it was hoped, would be able to "sell the Eastern capitalists on the
                    idea".
            The Honorable Jehu T. Elliott, of 
                        New Castle
                    , who had, at that time, just retired from the judicial bench of his county, was
                    selected as best fitted to meet with the eastern "moneyed men" and point out the
                    splendid opportunity for investment in the desired railroad.
            Judge Elliott was a typical Hoosier. He was born in 
                        Wayne County
                     in the year 1813. He was tutored in law by Martin M. Ray in his law office in 
                        Centerville
                    . He began the practise of law in 
                        New Castle
                     in 1833. He served his  circuit as Judge from 1844
                    until 1852 and again from 1855 to 1864. During the years from 1852 to 1855 he was the first
                    president of the 
                  Cincinnati, Logansport
                and 
                        Chicago
                     Railroad, about which this narrative is written.
            In October of 1865, he was elected a judge of the Supreme Court of Indiana and served along with
                    James L. Worden and James S. Frazer, from 1865 till 1871. Charles W. Taylor in his volume of
                    biographical sketches, Men of the Bench and Bar of Indiana, says of Judge Elliott:
                        
                        He was ruddy of face, an English beef-eating looking man, with big round head and massive
                            body, mild and genial in manner. A very sound and able lawyer, an honest, conscientious and
                            capable man. Few better have appeared at the Bar of Indiana. Scorning the quibbles and
                            technicalities of the practise, he stood on the bed-rock of general principles. His opinions
                            are among the best of Indiana Judges; concise, pointed and luminous.
                    
            
            Mr. Elliott was a close associate of such men as Oliver P. Morton, Samuel W. Parker, Henry S. Lane,
                    Samuel Bigger and other leaders, ^is intimate friends knew him to be fond of clever stories and
                    jokes, but withal stern and dignified. It was well for these towns and communities that they
                    selected such a man as Mr. Elliott, for it was probably through his keen and timely wit that a very
                    important railroad was financed.
            The story of Mr. Elliott's snap judgment and its sequel, as told by him on his return from
                    the East, was well known to the older residents along the line of the 
                        Richmond
                     and 
                        Logansport
                     Railroad (later the 
                        Chicago
                     and Great Eastern),—now a part of the 
                        Chicago
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                     Division of the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     System.
            The narrative of Mr. Elliott's experiences in 
                        New York
                     as related below is in almost the exact words of one to whom it was told by the genial
                    Judge himself.
            Back in the early fifties a native Hoosier, especially if he chanced to be a cultivated gentleman,
                    was regarded as a living curiosity by the denizens of 
                        New York
                    , and when a citizen of Indiana of that type invaded the city upon some mission that
                    brought him in touch with its business and professional life, he was sure to be "shown a
                    good time."
            It was in the year of 1852 that Judge Elliott was sent to 
                        New York
                     to secure a loan for the construction of the 
                        Richmond
                    
                     and 
                        Logansport
                     Railroad. The Judge's geniality, his fund of information, and his
                    conversational powers were attractive to the men of Gotham, and he was not long in making a number
                    of distinguished friends, who vied with him in the exchange of conversational pleasantries. The
                    Judge noticed that many of the stories of his friends were directed at the Hoosiers and their
                    back-woods manners, and that the hog— which, with the ague, was then supposed to fill the
                    measure of Indiana's enterprise and effort—played a leading role in the most
                    exaggerated rehearsals of Hoosier verdancy and drollery to which he was required to listen. He was,
                    of course, expected to laugh.
            It occurred one evening, after a round of "that sort of thing" that one of the
                    gentlemen inquired of Mr. Elliott, with a twinkle in his eye, as to the state of musical culture in
                    Indiana. "Judge," he asked, "what is the favorite musical instrument with
                    the music lovers of your state?"
            The Judge put on his gravest demeanor—no man could appear more deadly in earnest or more
                    solemn than he when he willed to do so—and replied: 
                        Formerly the fiddle—which I am told you people in 
                                New York
                             miscall the violin—was the favorite, but one of our Indiana musical
                            prodigies has invented an instrument that lays the fiddle in the shade. In fact,
                            it's all the rage now in the West.
                    
            
            "Is it possible, Judge, and what is the instrument called," queried a number of
                    voices.
            "It is called the Swinette," responded Elliott.
            "The Swinette, what a curious name! And can you tell us something of its
                    construction?"
            "Oh certainly! It is quite simple in character, a mere application of natural agencies to
                    the well known principles of musical notation."
            "Go on; go on! Tell us all about it," they exclaimed in chorus.
            The Judge then gave the following explanation after which effort he was knighted as the best
                    story-telling Hoosier who had visited 
                        New York
                    : 
                        As I said, it is a very simple piece of work. The maker simply constructs a long box and
                            divides it into various compartments, the compartments decreasing in size from left to
                            right. The original instrument consisted only of eight compartments to sound the full notes
                                 of a single octave, but the principle is capable of
                            almost endless expansion, as well as division into fractions of notes or modifications of
                            tones. The original eight-note box will, however, best explain the system. The seven
                            compartments varying in size from left to right are so constructed that each will hold a
                            hog. Into these the hogs are thrust head-foremost, from the open side. The apertures close
                            with doors through which holes have been cut so that the tails of the
                            animals—which are forced to stand up—can be drawn. Now, the hog in the
                            first compartment is a great old stag of four or five year's grows, to represent
                            the deepest bass; the next one to the right is younger, with a less profound squeal, and so
                            on, till at the extreme right you reach the little pig, and, of course, the highest note in
                            the octave. Then the performer sits down before (or rather behind) the box with his music
                            and pulls the tails, just as your daughters touch the keys of their pianos. The hogs and
                            pigs respond with the proper notes, and there you have the most delightful music that you
                            can imagine.
                    
            
            In due time the road was financed and the rails and machinery were ordered from the English
                    manufacturers. The order included a small locomotive to be used for construction purposes. The Judge
                    had almost forgotten his story by the time of the arrival of that locomotive on the line of the new
                    railroad. The engine, to his surprise, bore in handsome gilt characters the name
                    "Swinette", under which appellation it "choo-choo-chooed and
                    tooted" up and down the line until it served its day and was thrown into the limbo of
                    scraps and old iron.
            When the little construction engine arrived on the line it bore, in addition to the name
                    "Swinette", a large, well executed oil painting of Judge Elliott, carrying a pig
                    under his arm with its tail held between his teeth. [The Judge had explained to his Gotham friends
                    that the method of getting musical notes out of one pig by exerting eight different degrees of
                    pressure on the tail with the teeth, had suggested the invention of the more complex
                    "Swinette".] The inference was that he was in the act of evoking sweet sounds from
                    his favorite musical instrument.
            Elliott accepted the new turn which his joke had taken, and the picture and the story were soon
                    familiar to everybody upon the line of the "New Railroad".
         
         
         
            Some Reminiscences of 
                        Vevay
                    
            
            By Mrs. JULIA LECLERC KNOX
            
            The recent death of Mrs. Josephine Detraz Shadday at 
                        Vevay
                    , Indiana, recalls the picturesque old river town, about the history of which, she knew
                    more than any other living person. An older sister, Twonnet, was the original of the character of
                    that name in Eggelston's Roxy. Twonnet was married to Harvey Titus when
                    quite young and died a few months after marriage. The second wife of Mr. Titus was Isabelle
                    Antoinette LeClerc, oldest daughter of Mrs. Julie LeClerc, the pioneer proprietress and manager of
                    the LeClerc House, which hostelry was at one time known all over the State. Nat R. Titus, only
                    surviving offspring of Twonnet's husband and second wife, resides in San Diego, 
                        California
                    , with his three children, Aime, Isabel and Lela.
            The mother of Mrs. Shadday and Twonnet was popularly called "Aunt Lucy" by
                    everyone. She was the daughter of old Jean Morerod and his wife, Antoinette Dufour. The latter was a
                    sister of John James Dufour and John Francis Dufour, the founders of 
                        Vevay
                    . Jean Morerod helped to haul the cannon of Napoleon over the Alps before the battle of
                    Marengo. In the court house at 
                        Vevay
                     is the naive will of this sturdy old Switzer on record. In it he provided that his
                    burial should be of the simplest, that his casket should not exceed two dollars in cost and that the
                    difference in expense between "this equipage of mine and that usually afforded, shall be
                    spent in the best wine in my cellars and shall be dealt out to those who shall accompany my body to
                    the grave".
            The husband of "Aunt Lucy", Benjamin Detraz, was the chief gunner of the Swiss
                    artillery that went from 
                        Vevay
                     to 
                        Cincinnati
                     in 1824 to welcome 
                        LaFayette
                    . She used to relate with pride how her husband fired the cannon twenty-eight times
                    "in three minutes, lacking one second, and was deaf in one ear afterwards". She
                    also remembered that "
                        LaFayette
                     wrote a piece in the newspaper and said it was the best time he had ever seen made any
                    place—the time made by the Swiss gunners of 
                        Vevay
                    ".
            "Aunt Lucy" was born in 1806, the fifth of the white children  who first saw the light in that locality. Then there were only about
                    ten or twelve families in 
                        Vevay
                    . Her ambition was to see the century mark and she lived within two years of her goal.
                    To hear her talk was like living history. She remembered the war of 1812 and the visits of Indians
                    who were friendly to the French. She told of seeing buffaloes come down to the river to drink and of
                    bears that stole her father's pigs from the pen. She was present at the birth of Edward
                    Eggleston and put the first clothes on him.
            Her brother, "Uncle Aime" Morerod was born on the day that Jackson won the battle
                    of 
                        New Orleans
                    . He was likewise a picturesque old figure. He made "his pile"
                    flatboating and lived until his death in the house "with the Lombardy populars"
                    where Mark Bonamy took his wife, "Roxy", to live. This old mansion, now in
                    dignified decreptitude, was once the home of Mrs. Julia L. Dumont, the pioneer school-mistress of
                    Eggleston, who left the impress of her refinement and strength of character on many of our
                    ancestors. Proud are the sons and daughters of 
                        Vevay
                     who can say that their parents or grandparents were pupils of this "Grand Old
                    Lady". "Aunt Julia" LeClerc was another interesting member of the
                    Dufour-Morerod family.
            The old Detraz homested, a venerable brown frame, has long been one of the chief objectives of
                    tourists to 
                        Vevay
                    . It is a queer, rambling house with low ceilings and full of surprises, turning off
                    here and there, into a closet, a room, or a porch which ones does not suspect to find. The doors
                    have the "raise-up-the-lateh-and-walk-in" fastenings like those of Red Riding
                    Hood's grandmother. This is the house where the Rev. Whittaker, a character in Roxy boarded. The quaint overhanging back porch recalls the morning conversations of the
                    minister and Twonnet. The old family mansion is now devoid of living interest. What a fine thing it
                    would be if this old place could be made into a memorial to the Swiss pioneers who left the stamp of
                    strong character and fine ideals of citizenship on this community!
            It was in this old house that Mrs. Josephine Detraz Shadday was born, married, lived all her life,
                    and finally died. She was greatly interested in her community and after her mother's death,
                    the mantle of village historian fell on her shoulders. She was a charter member and director of the 
                        Switzerland
                     County Historical Society and also a member of  the
                    Indiana Historical Society. Although eighty-one at the time of her passing, so keen and alert was
                    she in both mind and body that no one thought of calling her old. She fully retained all her mental
                    faculties until a few minutes before her death, and refused to take to her bed until the last few
                    days of her life.
            She was a member of the first graduating class of the 
                        Vevay
                     High School, honorary President of the High School Alumni Association, a tireless
                    worker in the W.C.T.U., and charter member of the Eggleston Club. Just a short time before her
                    death, she wrote a paper on aviation for that organization which shows how valiantly she kept stride
                    with the times. She was a life-time member of the Presbyterian Church and a loyal worker in every
                    project of church and Sunday School. Her great strength of character and powers of endurance were
                    often put to the acid test for her life was one long series of sacrifices. Her sunny disposition,
                    gracious manners and knowledge of local history as well as her general culture, rendered her very
                    companionable. She embodied in herself the many worthy characteristics of the Swiss ancestry of
                    which she was so justly proud.
            Soon all the close descendants of the old Swiss founders of 
                        Vevay
                     will be gone and all the old homesteads and mansion houses they erected will be in
                    alien hands (almost the case already). But so long as the spirit with which they builded shall not
                    be lost, so long will this little city, so like its Swiss mother on the shores of Lake 
                        Geneva
                    , preserve its charm and its character for beauty and integrity; and so long will its
                    many sons and daughters, now so widely scattered, turn with pride and affection to the beloved old
                    home town, 
                        Vevay
                    , deeply valleyed amongst the Ohio River hills.
         
         
         
            Documents A LETTER OF 1863 FROM A WESTERN UNIVERSITY PRESIDENT
            The letter, here reproduced, of the Rev. Cyrus Nutt, President of Indiana University from 1860 to
                    1875, was written to an eastern professor, Mr. Evan Pugh, who had made inquiries, exidently with a
                    view to a position on the faculty of the western institution. At the same time, the President mailed
                    to his correspondent the Annual Report of Indiana University, which included the
                        Catalogue, for the "Academical year" 1861-1862. This Report had been submitted to Governor Oliver P. Morton a year before President
                    Nutt's letter was written, by James D. Maxwell, then president of the Board of Trustees.
                    Though the Report included the Catalogue of the same year, for
                    some reason, the names of the Faculty and Board of Trustees were omitted from its pages. To remedy
                    this, President Nutt enclosed with his letter a leaf torn from another catalogue, giving the list of
                    faculty members. At the right of the names, he penciled the salary received by himself and the
                    several professors.
            Below is the faculty roll as it appeared on the enclosed loose leaf, with the penciled data added by
                    President Nutt in italics:
            
               FACULTY
               
                  Rev. CYRUS NUTT, D.D., President, And Professor of Mental, Moral and Political Philosophy.
                  
                             Salary $1300
                        
               
               
                  Rev. THEOPHILUS A. WYLIE, A.M., Professor of Natural Philosophy and Chemistry
                  
                            1100
                        
               
               
                  Rev. ELISHA BALLANTINE, A.M., Professor of the Greek and Latin Languages and Literature.
                  
                            1100
                        
               
               
                  DANIEL KIRKWOOD, LL.D., Professor of Mathematics.
                  
                            1100
                        
               
               
                  Hon. GEORGE A. BICKNELL, Professor of Law.
                  
                            Self supporting
                        
               
               
                  RICHARD OWEN, M.D., State Geologist.
                  
                            Not here being in the army
                        
               
               
               
                  JAMES WOODBURN, A.M., Adjunct Professor of Languages, and Principal of the Preparatory
                            Department.
                  
                            1100
                        
               
               
                  EMANUEL L. MARQUIS, A.M., Professor of Modern Languages.
                  
                            Self supporting
                        
               
               
                  Secretary of the Faculty, DANIEL KIRKWOOD, LL.D.
                   
               
               
                  Librarian, T. A. WYLIE, A.M.
                   
               
            
            On the back of the loose leaf containing the faculty roll, the names of the Board of Trustees were
                    given: John B. Win-stanley, 
                        Floyd County
                    ; Bayless W. Hanna, 
                        Vanderburgh County
                    ; David Sheeks, 
                        Monroe County
                    ; James D. Maxwell, 
                        Monroe County
                    ; William K. Edwards, 
                        Vigo County
                    ; David 
                        Dayton
                    , St, 
                        Joseph County
                    ; John S. Tarkington, 
                        Marion County
                    ; George A. Irvin, 
                        Allen County
                    . The officers of the Board were: James D. Maxwell, President; R. W. Akin, Treasurer;
                    Robert C. Foster, Secretary.
            The picture carried on the University letter-head will be readily recognized by all who have ever
                    observed the structure which still stands at the end of College Avenue between the 
                        Bloomington
                     High School and Gymnasium. In the Annual Report and Catalogue of
                    1861-1862, a larger cut of this building, labeled INDIANA UNIVERSITY, is presented as a
                    frontispiece. On the twenty-seventh page there appears a description of the then recently
                    constructed hall of learning, which was a source of great and pardonable pride to all who had the
                    welfare of the struggling institution at heart. Special notice is taken of the fact that three sides
                    of the building could be observed by passengers on the "
                  Louisville, New Albany
                and 
                        Chicago
                     Railroad." The Trustees and President must have regarded seriously the
                    advertising value of the impressions made by the University plant on those who were privileged to
                    see it as they passed "on the cars", since the next hall erected on the old campus
                    fronted directly on the railroad, being located just South and West of the first building and
                    forming a right angle with it. The write-up of the new University home follows: 
                        THE NEW BUILDING
                        The new University Building is in the collegiate Gothic style, simply and truly carried out.
                            The exterior of closely set brick work, the openings  of
                            doors and windows on principal front having cut stone dressings, the quoins and gable
                            copings, string and base courses of same material, (a beautiful cream-colored limestone
                            found in great abundance on the ground.) The length of front is 145 feet. The building
                            consists of a center main building, 60 feet by 53 feet, and three stories high, gabled and
                            surmounted by a bell turret, about 80 feet high. The Chapel, 66 by 50 feet, society rooms,
                            committee rooms, and professors' room main hall and passages of communication to
                            the wings, are in the center building.
                        The wings each about 38 feet by 26, also three stories high, but lower than the
                            center—with intermediate spaces or side halls, in which are placed stairs, (to
                            approach the chapel from either side;) the library, museum, recitation rooms, law lecture
                            room, law library, President's room, &c, &c, in the wings. Under
                            one wing where the ground falls considerably, a convenient laboratory has been fitted up,
                            and provided with the apparatus necessary for the experimental illustration of the chemical
                            course.
                        The site of the building is central across the line of the principal street, leading from the
                            Court-House square, and with one end to the roailroad, so that both fronts of the building
                            and one end, (in all of which the character is preserved), may be seen from the cars as they
                            pass.
                    
            
            Just after the above description came a paragraph relating to 
                        Bloomington
                    : 
                        SITE
                        The village of 
                                Bloomington
                            , the seat of the University, is pleasantly situated on the
                                    
                        Louisville, New Albany
                      and 
                                Chicago
                             Railroad, in an elevated and well-watered limestone region. It is easy of
                            access in all directions; and in point of morals, cheapness of living, and healthy climate,
                            it is favorably located for the purpose of education. The population, consisting of about
                            two thousand persons, is moral and intelligent, and well calculated to exert a salutary
                            influence on the youth who resort to the University.
                    
            
            [The President's Letter]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              INDIANA STATE UNIVERSITY
                              
                                 
                                    Bloomington
                                 , Indiana
                           
                                
                        Hon. Evan Pugh
                        Agricultural College Pa.
                        Dear Sir,
                        Your letter of inquiries received some time ago but absence from home has delayed an
                                    answer until the present. I will answer your questions to the best of my ability.
                        The endowment is $80,000
                        Income from it 5,600
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        It is invested by the State on mortgage of real estate. Income from students is the
                                    Janitor Fee, $1.00 per Term. 3 Terms in the year, Tuition free for all.
                        Before the war, the Average no. of students was, 140, now about one hundred.
                        We teach 9 months in the year which is divided into three Terms, 1st. Vacation from
                                    Dec. 24 to Jan. 2d.—2d. Vacation from the 1st. of April, to the 9th. long
                                    Vacation from 2d. July to the Middle of Sept.
                        The cost for Tuition is nothing, for Books it varies with the standing of the
                                    student, from $3. to $5. dollars.
                        Boarding in Private families $2.50 per week; in Clubs $1.00.
                                    The no. of Prof &. salaries you will see per enclosed leaf of catalogue.
                        
                           
                                        Text
                                     Books accompanied by lectures are used in all the studies except Ethics
                                    Asethetics Civil Polity and International Law.
                        I will mail a Catalogue herewith. Truly Yours.
                        
                                    C. Nutt
                                
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            CASH ACCOUNT OF A UNIVERSITY STUDENT1 (1902-1903)
            
               
                  [September]
               
               
                  Sept.
                  1902
                  Dr.
                  Cr.
               
               
                  23
                  Cash on hand
                  3.00
                   
               
               
                  23
                  Borrowed
                  350.00
                   
               
               
                  23
                  Interest on loan
                   
                  21.00
               
               
                  23
                  Interest on previous loan
                   
                  18.00
               
               
                  23
                  Weekly home paper (2 yrs.)
                   
                  2.00
               
               
                  23
                  Dress goods and trimmings (Mrs. X.)
                   
                  10.00
               
               
                  23
                  Incidentals
                   
                  .46
               
               
                  26
                  R.R. fares to F. (2)
                   
                  1.00
               
               
                  27
                  Shoes and rubbers (Mrs. X.)
                   
                  3.50
               
               
                  27
                  Food-chopper
                   
                  1-00
               
               
                  27
                  Hat (Mr. X.)
                   
                  1.50
               
               
                  27
                  Laundry
                   
                  .30
               
               
                  27
                  R.R. fares F. to B. (2)
                   
                  6.40
               
               
                  27
                  Cab fares at L
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  27
                  Luncheons at L. (2)
                   
                  .70
               
               
                  27
                  Drayage
                   
                  .35
               
               
                  27
                  Rent of rooms (1 wk.)2
                  
                   
                  2.00
               
               
                  27
                  Steak and bread
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  27
                  Gasoline for stove, &c
                   
                  .26
               
               
                  27
                  Groceries
                   
                  1.55
               
               
                  28
                  Church coll.
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  29
                  1/2 bu potatoes
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  29
                  Crackers
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  29
                  Storage and drayage
                   
                  1.00
               
               
                  29
                  Milk
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  29
                  Grape-nuts
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  29
                  Bread and porkchops
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  29
                  Stamped envelopes
                   
                  .22
               
               
                  29
                  Comb
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  29
                  Bananas and apples
                   
                  .30
               
               
                  30
                  Ink and letter-tablet
                   
                  .20
               
            
            
               
                  1 The account here presented is that of a married student and his wife. It
                        is a reproduction of the original, with the exception that it is balanced at the end of each
                        month. In the little ledger in which the account was kept, it was balanced at the bottom of each
                        page. There are twenty-two lines per page in the ledger, and the account for the academic year
                        extends to thirty-four pages. The names of the senior and his wife, who was also a student, are
                        not divulged. The following from the beginning of a letter to the Editor will reveal the reason:
                        "I am sending you, in response to your request the cash account which I kept during my
                        senior year at old I.U. I don't believe that any one connected with the University,
                        then or now, knows that I kept this account except yourself. Now Lynch, I wouldn't care
                        if my identity were revealed, but my good wife is opposed to any publicity in the matter, so
                        please keep the secret under your hat. It will readily be seen that I was a history major, and a
                        very poor man, but there were others in the same boat. If anyone inquires of the other married
                        seniors, class '03, who did not keep cash accounts, they will all deny it, and I will
                        do the same. That ought to give your research students a problem which they will be unable to
                        solve."
               
                  2 Mr. and Mrs. X. had two rooms "lightly furnished for light
                        housekeeping" as Mr. X. states it. For these they paid $2.00 per week. The
                        rooms were heated with wood-stoves and the cooking was done on a gasoline-stove.
            
            
            
               
                  30
                  Coffee (1/2 lb.) and gasoline (1 gal. 16¢)
                   
                  .28
               
               
                  30
                  Cash Balance
                   
                  279.03
               
               
                   
                   
                  353.00
                  353.00
               
               
                  [October]
               
               
                  Oct.
                  1902
                  Dr.
                  Cr.
               
               
                  1
                  Balance
                  279.03
                   
               
               
                  1
                  Freight and drayage
                   
                  .60
               
               
                  1
                  Dress trimmings
                   
                  .76
               
               
                  1
                  Beans and pencils
                   
                  .35
               
               
                  1
                  Political Hist, of U.S. (2 vols.)
                   
                  2.90
               
               
                  1
                  Note-book paper
                   
                  .40
               
               
                  1
                  Kerosene (1 gal.)
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  1
                  Bread, eggs and soap
                   
                  .30
               
               
                  2
                  Single-cord dry wood
                   
                  2.00
               
               
                  2
                  Rent of rooms (2 1/2 wks.)
                   
                  5.00
               
               
                  3
                  Pocket note-books
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  3
                  Beginnings of Mid. Ages
                   
                  .70
               
               
                  3
                  Colonial Gov't
                   
                  1.15
               
               
                  3
                  
                     
                                Fountain
                             pen (Waterman)
                   
                  2.50
               
               
                  3
                  Share in Co-ops
                  
                   
                  2.00
               
               
                  3
                  Bread and steak
                   
                  .35
               
               
                  4
                  Groceries
                   
                  .65
               
               
                  4
                  Hat (Mrs. X.)
                   
                  2.00
               
               
                  5
                  Church
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  6
                  Thread
                   
                  .05
               
               
                  6
                  Prudential Insurance (Mrs. X. 7 wks.)
                   
                  1.05
               
               
                  6
                  Gardiner's History of Eng. (III)
                   
                  1.10
               
               
                  6
                  Dress binding
                   
                  .32
               
               
                  6
                  Envelopes (stamped)
                   
                  .26
               
               
                  7
                  Bread and eggs
                   
                  .30
               
               
                  7
                  Dye
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  7
                  Foot-ball game
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  7
                  Grapenuts and "force"4
                  
                   
                  .30
               
               
                  8
                  American Charities (Warner)
                   
                  1.15
               
               
                  8
                  Library fees (2)
                   
                  2.00
               
               
                  8
                  Bread, starch &c
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  10
                  Groceries
                   
                  .35
               
               
                  10
                  Collar & tie (Mrs. X.)
                   
                  .35
               
               
                  10
                  Beef steak
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  11
                  Gloves (Mrs. X.)
                   
                  1.00
               
               
                  11
                  Steak
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  11
                  Milk
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  11
                  Married Students' Club
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  11
                  Apples
                   
                  .10
               
            
            
               
                  3 For some years before the University Book Store was established, books
                        were supplied through a student's coöperative store located in a room of the
                        basement of Maxwell Hall. It was called the "Co-op" and any student buying a
                        $2.00 share was privileged to make all purchases at a discount.
               
                  4 "Force" was a light-weight breakfast food, a sort of a
                        fore-runner of "Corn-flakes". Why called "Force" is a
                        mystery not yet fathomed.
            
            
            
               
                  12
                  Church
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  13
                  Eggs and butter
                   
                  .30
               
               
                  13
                  Pork
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  13
                  French Grammar
                   
                  1.00
               
               
                  13
                  Bread, eggs and soap
                   
                  .30
               
               
                  13
                  Gasoline, soap & bread
                   
                  .26
               
               
                  13
                  Crackers and soap
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  14
                  Haircut and shave (Mr. X.)
                   
                  .35
               
               
                  15
                  Coffee and sugar
                   
                  .45
               
               
                  15
                  Hat-wire (Mrs. X.)
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  15
                  Bread and steak
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  16
                  Bread and eggs
                   
                  .19
               
               
                  17
                  Groceries
                   
                  .45
               
               
                  18
                  Pattern and map
                   
                  .18
               
               
                  18
                  Steak
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  18
                  Groceries
                   
                  .45
               
               
                  18
                  Kerosene
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  18
                  Envelopes and paper
                   
                  .35
               
               
                  19
                  Church
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  19
                  Shoe-strings (John Arthur McPheeters)5
                  
                   
                  .18
               
               
                  20
                  Butter (1 lb.)
                   
                  .30
               
               
                  20
                  Milk (10 half pint tickets)
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  21
                  Sweet potatoes &c
                   
                  .30
               
               
                  22
                  Bread and steak
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  22
                  Rent of rooms to Oct. 25 (1/2 wk.)
                   
                  1.00
               
               
                  23
                  Eggs (1 doz.)
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  23
                  Pork chops
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  24
                  Gasoline, "force" and bread
                   
                  .35
               
               
                  24
                  Steak
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  25
                  Bread & cabbage
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  25
                  Apples and cider
                   
                  .35
               
               
                  25
                  Foot-ball game (2)
                   
                  1.00
               
               
                  25
                  Rent to Nov. 13th
                   
                  5 50
               
               
                  25
                  Groceries
                   
                  .50
               
               
                  25
                  Payment of loan on insurance policy
                   
                  90.00
               
               
                  25
                  Interest on same
                   
                  1.90
               
               
                  26
                  Church
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  27
                  Bread & Steak
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  27
                  Laundry
                   
                  .44
               
               
                  27
                  "Vitos"6
                  
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  27
                  Gasoline (2 gals.)
                   
                  .32
               
               
                  28
                  Stamped envelopes (25)
                   
                  .55
               
               
                  28
                  Bread and pork chops
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  29
                  Subscription to Student
                   
                  .75
               
               
                  29
                  
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             News (2¢) and pork
                   
                  .12
               
               
                  29
                  Gasoline, crackers &c
                   
                  .36
               
            
            
               
                  5 John Arthur McPheeters was a vendor of shoe-laces and maple candy. All
                        students knew him and patronized him. He went about town pushing a baby-carriage in which he
                        carried his stock in trade.
               
                  6 "Vitos" was a breakfast food somewhat akin to
                        "Cream of Wheat", save that it was a bit less like baby-food.
            
            
            
               
                  30
                  Cider
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  31
                  Books for Bible Course
                   
                  1.15
               
               
                  31
                  Shave
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  31
                  Coffee (1 lb.)
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  31
                  Steak
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  31
                  Incidentals
                   
                  .44
               
               
                  31
                  Balance
                   
                  132.10
               
               
                   
                   
                  279.03
                  279.03
               
               
                  [November]
               
               
                  Nov.
                  1902
                  Dr.
                  Cr.
               
               
                  1
                  Balance
                  132.10
                   
               
               
                  1
                  Ladies Home Journal
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  1
                  Milk & steak
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  1
                  Bread &c
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  2
                  Church
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  3
                  Incidentals
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  3
                  Eggs, bread & pork
                   
                  .35
               
               
                  4
                  Bread and milk
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  4
                  Hat trimmings (Mrs. X.)
                   
                  .75
               
               
                  5
                  Gasoline, kerosene & "force"
                   
                  .45
               
               
                  6
                  Roast of beef
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  7
                  Bread
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  8
                  Deposit on suit of clothes (Mr. X.)
                   
                  5.00
               
               
                  8
                  Pork and shoe strings
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  9
                  Groceries
                   
                  .95
               
               
                  10
                  Prudential insurance
                   
                  1.05
               
               
                  10
                  Bread, steak and soap
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  11
                  Lace collar (Mrs. X.)
                   
                  .14
               
               
                  11
                  Steak and tooth-powder
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  12
                  Note-book filler
                   
                  .30
               
               
                  12
                  Gasoline (1 gal.)
                   
                  .16
               
               
                  12
                  Pork, bread & pie
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  12
                  Rent of rooms to Dec. 6
                   
                  6.50
               
               
                  13
                  Groceries
                   
                  .58
               
               
                  13
                  Notebook and pencils
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  14
                  Bread
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  14
                  Incidentals
                   
                  .53
               
               
                  15
                  Steak
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  15
                  Eggs & Bread
                   
                  .28
               
               
                  16
                  Church
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  17
                  Pork and "vitos"
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  17
                  Potatoes and sorghum
                   
                  .32
               
               
                  17
                  Steak and bread
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  17
                  Maps (outline)
                   
                  .06
               
               
                  18
                  Bread and crackers
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  18
                  Milk
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  19
                  Gasoline and kerosene
                   
                  .30
               
               
                  19
                  Bread and cakes
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  21
                  Pork chops
                   
                  .10
               
               
               
                  21
                  Elastic and thread
                   
                  .30
               
               
                  22
                  Balance on suit to measure (Mr. X.)
                   
                  17.00
               
               
                  22
                  Groceries and roast
                   
                  1.00
               
               
                  23
                  Church
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  23
                  Milk (4 pt. tickets)
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  25
                  Bread and pork
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  25
                  Thread
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  26
                  Gasoline (1 gal.)
                   
                  .16
               
               
                  26
                  Groceries
                   
                  .22
               
               
                  26
                  1 single-cord dry wood
                   
                  2.25
               
               
                  27
                  Coffee and "vitos"
                   
                  .50
               
               
                  27
                  Beef-steak
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  27
                  Bread & cakes
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  27
                  Milk (10 half pt. tickets)
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  27
                  Incidentals
                   
                  .35
               
               
                  27
                  Dinners at restaurant with M.S. Club
                   
                  .70
               
               
                  29
                  Ladies Home Journal
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  30
                  Church
                   
                  -10
               
               
                  30
                  Balance
                   
                  87.10
               
               
                   
                   
                  132.10
                  132.10
               
               
                  [December]
               
               
                  Dec.
                  1902
                  Dr.
                  Cr.
               
               
                  1
                  Balance
                  87.10
                   
               
               
                  1
                  Bread and steak
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  1
                  1 single-cord dry wood
                   
                  2.25
               
               
                  3
                  Bread, soap and beef
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  4
                  Pork
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  4
                  Tout's Empire and Papacy
                   
                  1.60
               
               
                  5
                  Thread and stamped envelopes
                   
                  .60
               
               
                  5
                  Y.W.C.A
                   
                  .85
               
               
                  5
                  Bread &c
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  6
                  Dry goods
                   
                  .24
               
               
                  5
                  Eggs (1 doz. 24¢) & bread
                   
                  .29
               
               
                  5
                  Note-book
                   
                  .19
               
               
                  6
                  Bread & cakes
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  6
                  Boil of beef
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  6
                  Groceries
                   
                  .70
               
               
                  6
                  Gasoline and kerosene
                   
                  .47
               
               
                  6
                  Milk
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  7
                  Church
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  8
                  Bread and soup-bone
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  8
                  Hair-cut and shave (Mr. X.)
                   
                  .35
               
               
                  9
                  Coffee, bread and soap
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  9
                  Steak
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  10
                  Bread, cakes, rice &c
                   
                  .35
               
               
                  11
                  Groceries
                   
                  .35
               
               
                  12
                  Lard & bread
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  12
                  Steak
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  14
                  Bread, cakes & pork
                   
                  .20
               
               
               
                  16
                  Rent of rooms to Jan. 17
                   
                  8.00
               
               
                  16
                  Shoes repaired
                   
                  .35
               
               
                  16
                  Gasoline
                   
                  .16
               
               
                  16
                  Milk
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  16
                  Groceries and incidentals
                   
                  1.90
               
               
                  16
                  Laundry
                   
                  .60
               
               
                  18
                  Beef and bread
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  19
                  Veal and cakes
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  19
                  Union-suit
                   
                  .50
               
               
                  19
                  Canton flannel and pattern
                   
                  .75
               
               
                  20
                  R.R. fares to C. (2 round trips)
                   
                  5.90
               
               
                  20
                  Transfers (2)
                   
                  .50
               
               
                  20
                  R.R. fares to B. (2 round trips)
                   
                  4.64
               
               
                  20
                  Drayage
                   
                  .50
               
               
                  20
                  Figs and paper
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  20
                  Rubbers (Mr. X.)
                   
                  .75
               
               
                  29
                  Shave &c
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  31
                  Balance
                   
                  51.40
               
               
                   
                   
                  87.10
                  87.10
               
               
                  [January]
               
               
                  Jan.
                  1903
                  Dr.
                  Cr.
               
               
                  1
                  Balance
                  51.40
                   
               
               
                  5
                  Drayage
                   
                  .50
               
               
                  5
                  "Foley's Honey and Tar"
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  5
                  Rubbers (Mrs. X.)
                   
                  .50
               
               
                  5
                  Bread &c
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  5
                  Tablet and ink
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  5
                  White yarn
                   
                  .35
               
               
                  6
                  Coffee and bread
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  6
                  1 single-cord of dry wood
                   
                  2.25
               
               
                  6
                  Bagehot's English Constitution
                   
                  1.40
               
               
                  7
                  Charles Smith's College Algebra
                   
                  1.80
               
               
                  7
                  Kerosene, lemons & bread
                   
                  .30
               
               
                  7
                  W. & L. American Revolution
                   
                  .95
               
               
                  8
                  Burgess, Middle Period
                   
                  .90
               
               
                  8
                  "Julius Caesar"
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  8
                  Note paper
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  8
                  Potatoes
                   
                  .40
               
               
                  8
                  Eggs & Vinegar
                   
                  .30
               
               
                  9
                  Milk and bread
                   
                  .30
               
               
                  9
                  Boil of beef
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  9
                  Onions, soap, etc
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  9
                  Stamped envelopes & stamps
                   
                  .73
               
               
                  10
                  Bromo-quinine
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  10
                  Crackers and cakes
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  10
                  Bread and News
                   
                  .12
               
               
                  11
                  Church
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  12
                  Prudential insurance
                   
                  1.05
               
               
                  13
                  Groceries
                   
                  .45
               
               
               
                  14
                  Library fees (2)
                   
                  2.00
               
               
                  14
                  Paper and note-book
                   
                  .28
               
               
                  14
                  Corn meal and eggs
                   
                  .40
               
               
                  14
                  Tickets to Student play (2)
                   
                  .70
               
               
                  16
                  Washing done
                   
                  .50
               
               
                  16
                  Gasoline (2)
                   
                  .32
               
               
                  16
                  History Club
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  16
                  Groceries
                   
                  .59
               
               
                  16
                  Braid & thread
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  19
                  Milk, &c
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  20
                  Boil of beef
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  20
                  Crackers and figs
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  21
                  Bread and cakes
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  21
                  Rent of rooms to Jan. 31
                   
                  4.00
               
               
                  21
                  1 single-cord dry wood
                   
                  2.25
               
               
                  21
                  Incidentals
                   
                  .31
               
               
                  22
                  Langlois & Seignobos
                   
                  1.90
               
               
                  22
                  Bread and matches
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  23
                  1 single-cord dry wood
                   
                  2.25
               
               
                  24
                  Gasoline & kerosene
                   
                  .31
               
               
                  24
                  Laundry
                   
                  .22
               
               
                  24
                  Eggs & beef
                   
                  .35
               
               
                  26
                  Ladies Home Journal
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  26
                  Stamps &c
                   
                  .13
               
               
                  26
                  Bread, coffe and cakes
                   
                  .35
               
               
                  26
                  Shoe-strings
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  26
                  Bread, butter (1/2 lb.) & News (2¢)
                   
                  .27
               
               
                  27
                  Hair-cut & shave
                   
                  .35
               
               
                  27
                  Tablet & pens
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  27
                  Bread and cakes
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  28
                  Courtney's Eng. Cons't
                   
                  1.90
               
               
                  29
                  Milk
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  29
                  Lecture
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  30
                  Soap
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  30
                  Groceries
                   
                  .55
               
               
                  30
                  Lace-braid
                   
                  .12
               
               
                  31
                  Gasoline
                   
                  .16
               
               
                  31
                  Balance
                   
                  14.44
               
               
                   
                   
                  51.40
                  51.40
               
               
                  [February]
               
               
                  Feb.
                  1903
                  Dr.
                  Cr.
               
               
                  1
                  Balance
                  14.44
                   
               
               
                  1
                  Incidentals
                   
                  .45
               
               
                  2
                  Bread, cakes and beans
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  3
                  Steak
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  3
                  Groceries
                   
                  .30
               
               
                  3
                  Note-books and filler
                   
                  .32
               
               
                  4
                  Gasoline & kerosene
                   
                  .31
               
               
                  7
                  Groceries
                   
                  .75
               
               
               
                  7
                  Beef, bread & cakes
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  7
                  Vaccination (2)
                   
                  1.00
               
               
                  7
                  Collars (Mrs. X.)
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  9
                  Bread &c
                   
                  -10
               
               
                  9
                  Laundry
                   
                  -20
               
               
                  9
                  Married Students' Club
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  9
                  Pork
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  11
                  Eggs (2 doz.)
                   
                  .30
               
               
                  11
                  Apples & potatoes
                   
                  .30
               
               
                  11
                  Cocoa
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  12
                  Beans
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  12
                  Milk
                   
                  .05
               
               
                  17
                  French reader
                   
                  .60
               
               
                  17
                  Notary's fee
                   
                  .50
               
               
                  20
                  Groceries & incidentals (Feb. 13-20)
                   
                  5.57
               
               
                  22
                  Church
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  23
                  Insurance loan
                  165.00
                   
               
               
                  23
                  Insurance preminum ($1000 policy)
                   
                  27.15
               
               
                  23
                  Rent to March 7
                   
                  10.00
               
               
                  23
                  Beef, bread and fruit
                   
                  .30
               
               
                  23
                  Groceries
                   
                  .55
               
               
                  23
                  Prudential ins. (7 wks.)
                   
                  1.05
               
               
                  24
                  Payment on photographs
                   
                  1.00
               
               
                  25
                  Pamphlets
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  26
                  Groceries
                   
                  .40
               
               
                  26
                  Shirt-waist (Mrs. X.)
                   
                  2.40
               
               
                  27
                  Laundry
                   
                  .40
               
               
                  27
                  Groceries and incidentals
                   
                  .90
               
               
                  28
                  Gasoline (2)
                   
                  .32
               
               
                  28
                  Student (Winter Quarter)
                   
                  .75
               
               
                  28
                  Pork and eggs
                   
                  -23
               
               
                  28
                  Bread and shoestrings
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  28
                  Tar soap
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  28
                  Butter
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  28
                  Milk and buttermilk
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  28
                  Balance
                   
                  120.34
               
               
                   
                   
                  179.44
                  179.44
               
               
                  [March]
               
               
                  Mar.
                  1903
                  Dr.
                  Cr.
               
               
                  1
                  Balance
                  120.34
                   
               
               
                  1
                  Church
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  1
                  Dentist's bill (Mrs. X.)
                   
                  2.00
               
               
                  1
                  Beef and bread
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  2
                  Y.W.C.A
                   
                  .85
               
               
                  2
                  Beef and bread
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  2
                  Postage fee (Teacher's Agency)
                   
                  .50
               
               
                  2
                  Stamps and envelopes
                   
                  .32
               
               
                  3
                  Student building (1/2 of pledge)
                   
                  5.00
               
               
                  3
                  Beef and eggs
                   
                  .30
               
               
               
                  4
                  Oatmeal and milk
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  4
                  Crackers & bread
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  4
                  Maple sugar & shoestrings (McPheeters)
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  4
                  Beef, bread and cakes
                   
                  .30
               
               
                  5
                  Dentist's bill (Mrs. X.)
                   
                  2.00
               
               
                  6
                  Eggs (1 doz.)
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  6
                  Potatoes
                   
                  .30
               
               
                  7
                  Bread, cakes and soap
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  7
                  On Arbutus picture
                   
                  .60
               
               
                  7
                  Apricots
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  7
                  Pork & bread
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  7
                  Eggs (1 doz.)
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  8
                  Church
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  9
                  Bread and milk
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  9
                  Banquet (History Club—2 plates)7
                  
                   
                  1.50
               
               
                  10
                  Dry goods and incidentals
                   
                  .85
               
               
                  10
                  Laundry
                   
                  .17
               
               
                  11
                  Eggs (.15) and baking powder
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  12
                  Groceries
                   
                  .85
               
               
                  13
                  Shoes
                   
                  2.35
               
               
                  13
                  Bread, meat and butter
                   
                  .35
               
               
                  13
                  Meat, bread &c
                   
                  .35
               
               
                  13
                  Milk
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  13
                  Incidentals
                   
                  .58
               
               
                  14
                  Y.M.C.A. Sub
                   
                  1.50
               
               
                  14
                  Butter
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  14
                  Eggs
                   
                  .30
               
               
                  14
                  Gasoline
                   
                  .17
               
               
                  14
                  Shoe-strings (McPheeters)
                   
                  .30
               
               
                  15
                  Stamps & Envelopes
                   
                  .63
               
               
                  15
                  Bread & News
                   
                  .07
               
               
                  16
                  Balance on Photos
                   
                  2.50
               
               
                  17
                  Church &c
                   
                  .40
               
               
                  17
                  Dry goods
                   
                  .76
               
               
                  17
                  Meat and bread
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  17
                  Milk
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  17
                  Rent March 10 to 28
                   
                  6.00
               
               
                  17
                  Stamps
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  17
                  Bread
                   
                  .08
               
               
                  18
                  Laundry
                   
                  .52
               
               
                  18
                  Tablets
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  18
                  Groceries
                   
                  .40
               
               
                  19
                  Select Charters
                   
                  1.40
               
               
                  19
                  Steak and pie
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  20
                  Kerosene (2)
                   
                  .30
               
               
                  21
                  Groceries and beef
                   
                  .93
               
               
                  21
                  Turpentine
                   
                  .05
               
            
            
               
                  7 This affair of March, 1903, was the first annual dinner of the History
                        Club which was organized in October, 1902.
            
            
            
               
                  21
                  Pies8
                  
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  22
                  Church
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  23
                  Hat (Mr. X.)
                   
                  1.00
               
               
                  23
                  Thread and bread
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  23
                  Eggs and cakes
                   
                  .17
               
               
                  24
                  Bread and steak
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  24
                  On refreshments (Married Students' Club)
                   
                  .59
               
               
                  24
                  Gasoline (1)
                   
                  .17
               
               
                  24
                  Butter
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  25
                  Bacon
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  25
                  Bread and News
                   
                  .07
               
               
                  26
                  Eggs
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  26
                  Umbrella mended
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  26
                  Apples
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  26
                  Cakes
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  26
                  Soup-bone and bread
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  27
                  Milk (10 half-pint tickets)
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  27
                  Steak and bread
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  27
                  Hair-cut and shave (Mr. X.)
                   
                  .35
               
               
                  28
                  Eggs and bread
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  28
                  Percale
                   
                  .35
               
               
                  28
                  Bread, steak &c
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  29
                  Church
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  30
                  Steak
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  30
                  Garden seeds
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  30
                  Molasses
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  30
                  Bread
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  30
                  Candy
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  31
                  German texts (Selections)
                   
                  .70
               
               
                  31
                  Political Theories
                   
                  2.20
               
               
                  31
                  Hist, of Papacy, VI
                   
                  1.65
               
               
                  31
                  Reformation
                   
                  1.75
               
               
                  31
                  Civil War (2 vols)
                   
                  1.80
               
               
                  31
                  Eggs (25 @ 1¢ each)
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  31
                  Potatoes & butter
                   
                  .40
               
               
                  31
                  Balance
                   
                  66.46
               
               
                   
                   
                  120.34
                  120.34
               
               
                  [April]
               
               
                  April
                  1903
                  Dr.
                  Cr.
               
               
                  1
                  Balance
                  66.46
                   
               
               
                  1
                  Fish and bread
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  1
                  Note book filler
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  2
                  Groceries
                   
                  .62
               
               
                  3
                  Groceries
                   
                  .37
               
               
                  4
                  Gasoline (1 gal.)
                   
                  .17
               
               
                  4
                  Beef
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  4
                  Bread and cake
                   
                  .15
               
            
            
               
                  8 Pies could be purchased in 1902 for 10¢ each? The same pies
                        would sell for 40¢ each today—fresh baked, of course.
            
            
            
               
                  4
                  Load of wood
                   
                  1.50
               
               
                  4
                  Eggs (1 doz.)
                   
                  .12
               
               
                  4
                  Church
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  4
                  Bread
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  6
                  Groceries and steak
                   
                  .60
               
               
                  6
                  Milk
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  6
                  Rent March 28 to April 11
                   
                  4.00
               
               
                  7
                  Bread and cakes
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  8
                  Steak and bread
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  8
                  For expense of Y.W.C.A. delegate
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  8
                  Stamps and envelopes
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  8
                  Crackers and eggs
                   
                  .30
               
               
                  9
                  Gasoline (1 gal)
                   
                  .17
               
               
                  9
                  Braid
                   
                  .18
               
               
                  9
                  Private Life of Romans
                   
                  1.40
               
               
                  9
                  Hat (Mrs. X.)
                   
                  2.00
               
               
                  10
                  Butter and bread
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  11
                  Groceries
                   
                  .70
               
               
                  11
                  Milk (10 half-pint tickets)
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  11
                  Library fees (2)
                   
                  2.00
               
               
                  11
                  Pork and bread
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  12
                  Sunday school
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  13
                  Vanilla extract
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  13
                  Bread and sour milk
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  13
                  Eggs
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  13
                  Prudential insurance
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  15
                  History Club
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  15
                  Steak, bread and pie
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  16
                  Muslin
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  16
                  Stamped envelopes (12)
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  16
                  Garden seeds
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  16
                  Bread
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  16
                  Eggs
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  18
                  Gasoline (1 gal.)
                   
                  .17
               
               
                  18
                  Chicken
                   
                  .45
               
               
                  18
                  Steak and bread
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  18
                  Eggs (1 doz.)
                   
                  .12
               
               
                  18
                  For flowers
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  18
                  Milk
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  20
                  Prudential ins. (3 wks.)
                   
                  .45
               
               
                  20
                  Rent April 11 to May 2 (3 wks.)
                   
                  6.00
               
               
                  20
                  Shirt (Mr. X.)
                   
                  .50
               
               
                  20
                  Bakingpowder
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  20
                  Butter and bread
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  20
                  Pork and fruit
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  20
                  Beans
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  21
                  Groceries
                   
                  .38
               
               
                  21
                  Incidentals
                   
                  .16
               
               
                  22
                  Bread and steak
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  22
                  Shoes stretched
                   
                  .05
               
               
               
                  22
                  Soap (5¢) and pie
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  23
                  Crackers and soup-bone
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  23
                  Bread &c
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  23
                  Ink and shoe polish
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  23
                  Floss
                   
                  .08
               
               
                  23
                  Coffee and candy
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  23
                  Carfare to 
                                Indianapolis
                             and return
                   
                  2.55
               
               
                  23
                  Hist. Section fee (Mr. X.)
                   
                  .50
               
               
                  23
                  Supper (
                                Indianapolis
                            )
                   
                  .40
               
               
                  24
                  Breakfast (
                                Indianapolis
                            )
                   
                  .35
               
               
                  24
                  Room and shine
                   
                  .60
               
               
                  25
                  Gasoline (1 gal.)
                   
                  .17
               
               
                  25
                  Bread and steak
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  25
                  Church
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  27
                  Kerosene (2 gals.)
                   
                  .30
               
               
                  27
                  Bread
                   
                  .05
               
               
                  27
                  Mildred McC
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  27
                  Buttons and thread
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  28
                  Milk
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  28
                  Pork
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  28
                  Cakes, rice, lard
                   
                  .35
               
               
                  28
                  Sugar, bread, matches
                   
                  .35
               
               
                  28
                  Incidentals
                   
                  .44
               
               
                  30
                  Bananas & bread
                   
                  .17
               
               
                  30
                  Note-book
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  30
                  13 Eggs (1¢ each)
                   
                  .13
               
               
                  30
                  Balance
                   
                  29.51
               
               
                   
                   
                  66.46
                  66.46
               
               
                  [May]
               
               
                  May
                  1903
                  Dr.
                  Cr.
               
               
                  1
                  Balance
                  29.51
                   
                   
               
               
                  1
                  Eggs (1¢ each)
                   
                  .13
               
               
                  1
                  Floss, steak, bread, fruit &c
                   
                  .44
               
               
                  2
                  German text (reader)
                   
                  .75
               
               
                  2
                  Stamps and envelopes
                   
                  .32
               
               
                  2
                  Minstrel show
                   
                  .30
               
               
                  2
                  Beef and bread
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  3
                  Church
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  4
                  Gasoline
                   
                  .17
               
               
                  5
                  Laundry
                   
                  .66
               
               
                  6
                  Pork and lard
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  6
                  Bread and oranges
                   
                  .30
               
               
                  6
                  Cakes and bacon
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  6
                  Arbutus fee
                   
                  5.00
               
               
                  6
                  Butter
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  6
                  Eggs and bread
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  8
                  Milk
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  8
                  Eggs (1¢ each)
                   
                  .13
               
               
                  8
                  Onions and bread
                   
                  .10
               
               
               
                  8
                  Bananas
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  8
                  Fish
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  9
                  Gasoline (1 gal.)
                   
                  .18
               
               
                  9
                  Steak and bread
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  9
                  Crackers and eggs
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  10
                  Church
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  11
                  Prudential insurance
                   
                  .30
               
               
                  12
                  Jelly
                   
                  .50
               
               
                  12
                  Steak
                   
                  .12
               
               
                  12
                  Ball game
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  12
                  Pork, bread &c
                   
                  .30
               
               
                  13
                  Reconst. & Const
                   
                  .95
               
               
                  15
                  Coffee, eggs, oatmeal
                   
                  .45
               
               
                  15
                  Candy
                   
                  .18
               
               
                  15
                  Eggs(ldoz.)
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  16
                  Senior invitations
                   
                  .40
               
               
                  16
                  Steak and bread
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  16
                  Oranges
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  16
                  Butter and Milk
                   
                  .30
               
               
                  18
                  Ribbon (Mrs. X.)
                   
                  .30
               
               
                  18
                  Dried beef
                   
                  .05
               
               
                  18
                  Bread
                   
                  .05
               
               
                  18
                  Y.W.C.A
                   
                  .85
               
               
                  18
                  Peas and pickles
                   
                  .15
               
               
                  18
                  Bread and lemons
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  18
                  More senior invitations
                   
                  .40
               
               
                  20
                  Bacon and cakes
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  21
                  Bread & sugar
                   
                  .30
               
               
                  21
                  Bread and eggs
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  21
                  Strawberries
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  21
                  Ham
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  22
                  Fee for A.B. degree
                   
                  5.00
               
               
                  22
                  Stamped envelopes
                   
                  .53
               
               
                  22
                  Eggs (1 doz.)
                   
                  .16
               
               
                  25
                  Gauze
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  27
                  "Student"
                   
                  .75
               
               
                  30
                  Received for 21 meals
                  2.109
                  
                   
               
               
                  30
                  Groceries and meats
                   
                  3.53
               
               
                  31
                  Balance
                   
                  3.46
               
               
                   
                   
                  31.61
                  31.61
               
               
                  [June]
               
               
                  June
                  1903
                  Dr.
                  Cr.
               
               
                  1
                  Balance
                  3.46
                   
               
               
                  1
                  Borrowed
                  50.00
                   
               
               
                  2
                  Rent May 2 to June 13
                   
                  12.00
               
            
            
               
                  9 This item seems to indicate that some third person boarded with Mr. and
                        Mrs. X. for a short time. The charge was ten cents per meal, a price not uncommon in those days.
                        In 1891, the Editor once boarded in a students' club where the charge was
                        $1.85 for 21 meals. The lowest price paid by him In 
                            Bloomington
                         was $2.50 for 21 meals, that is at a students' boarding
                    club.
            
            
            
               
                  2
                  Expense of trip to S. (regarding job)
                   
                  2.00
               
               
                  2
                  Washings, two
                   
                  1.00
               
               
                  2
                  Gasoline (2 gals.)
                   
                  .36
               
               
                  2
                  Telegram to western city (regarding job)
                   
                  1.00
               
               
                  3
                  Dress goods (Mrs. X.)
                   
                  2.55
               
               
                  4
                  The Antonines
                   
                  .70
               
               
                  4
                  Telegram from western city (no job)
                   
                  1.00
               
               
                  6
                  For 21 meals
                  2.10
                   
               
               
                  6
                  Track-meet
                   
                  .50
               
               
                  6
                  Groceries and meats
                   
                  4.13
               
               
                  6
                  Incidentals
                   
                  1.65
               
               
                  10
                  Ribbon and hooks & eyes (Mrs. X.)
                   
                  .55
               
               
                  11
                  Groceries and meats
                   
                  3.51
               
               
                  12
                  Laundry (Mr. X.)
                   
                  .80
               
               
                  12
                  Gasoline (2 gals.)
                   
                  .36
               
               
                  12
                  For 21 meals
                  2.10
                   
               
               
                  12
                  Letter tablets and stamps
                   
                  .30
               
               
                  12
                  Stamped envelopes (25)
                   
                  .53
               
               
                  12
                  Trousers repaired (Mr. X.)
                   
                  .35
               
               
                  14
                  Church
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  15
                  Gasoline (1 gal.)
                   
                  .18
               
               
                  15
                  Prudential ins. (4 wks.)
                   
                  .60
               
               
                  15
                  Shoes repaired (Mr. X.)
                   
                  .50
               
               
                  17
                  Stamps
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  18
                  Senior cap and gown (rental)
                   
                  2.00
               
               
                  19
                  For 21 meals
                  2.10
                   
               
               
                  20
                  Groceries for week
                   
                  3.55
               
               
                  20
                  Laundry (Mr. X.)
                   
                  .16
               
               
                  21
                  Church
                   
                  .10
               
               
                  22
                  For eight meals
                  .75
                   
               
               
                  23
                  Rent (2 wks.)
                   
                  4.00
               
               
                  23
                  Two washings
                   
                  1.00
               
               
                  23
                  Senior expense
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  23
                  Household goods hauled
                   
                  .60
               
               
                  25
                  Laundry (Mr. X.)
                   
                  .20
               
               
                  25
                  Drayage
                   
                  .25
               
               
                  25
                  Provisions and incidentals
                   
                  2.49
               
               
                  25
                  R.R. fares from B. (Mr. & Mrs. X.)
                   
                  7.08
               
               
                  26
                  Balance10
                  
                   
                  3.86
               
               
                   
                   
                  60.51
                  60.61
               
            
            
               
                  10 That Mr. and Mrs. X. were able to show a balance following Commencement
                        was very remarkable, when the total funds available for the year are considered. The principal
                        value of this document is that it reveals the extremely low cost of living in 
                            Bloomington
                         a little over a quarter of a century ago. The Editor was a student in the same
                        period with Mr. and Mrs. X., and knew them well. He believes that they lived comfortably, though
                        modern conveniences were wanting.
            
         
         
         
            Reviews and Notices
            
               Life and Labor in the Old South. By ULRICH BONNELL PHILLIPS. Little, 
                        Brown
                     and Company, 
                        Boston
                    , 1929. Pp. xix + 373. Illustrated, $4.50.
            The author of this volume has a more extensive acquaintance with the sources of southern history than
                    any other living historical student. He knows his field, yet he is modest because he is deeply
                    impressed with the difficulty of drawing exact conclusions. A sentence from his preface reveals his
                    clear understanding of the problem confronting the writer of history: "Every line which a
                    qualified student writes is written with a consciousness that his impressions are imperfect and his
                    conclusions open to challenge."
            The book properly opens with a chapter on "The Land of Dixie." This brief
                    discussion of the phisiographic and climatic factors in southern history is good in view of the fact
                    that justice could not be done to these influences in less than an entire volume. Outstanding
                    chapters are those on "The Cotton Belt," "Staple Economy,"
                    "Traffic," "The Peculiar Institution," "The Costs of
                    Labor," and "Life in Thraldom." There are other chapters, more
                    fascinating and easier to read, that deal with "The Plain People" and
                    "The Gentry." There is much matter in the book pertaining to the colonial era,
                    when the plantation system originated, and the westward movement is not slighted. The chapters
                    headed, "Some 
                        Virginia
                     Masters," "Southeastern Plantations," and "Planters
                    of the Southwest," give to Doctor Phillips a splendid chance to make his readers acquainted
                    with rare material extracted from sources both manuscript and printed. He has made the most of his
                    opportunity, and without flourish or exaggeration, setting forth the seamy side as well as the more
                    imposing features, he has drawn vivid and convincing pictures of the plantation régime
                    from 
                        Virginia
                     to 
                        Texas
                    .
            The author was born in 
                        Georgia
                     in the year that Hayes became President. He received the doctor's degree from 
                        Columbia
                     University and has given most of his service as a university teacher to 
                        Wisconsin
                     and 
                        Michigan
                    . Nevertheless, his years in the lower South, his search for documents and  his first hand study of geography, people, and economic conditions in
                    both the upper and the lower South have enabled him to base portions of his story on personal
                    observation. Quite frequently, he writes in the first person and relates his own experiences.
            Without becoming dogmatic or tiresome, Doctor Phillips intersperses many interpretative comments
                    regarding the problems of slavery and the plantation regime. Having discussed the slave-traffic, he
                    says of the men engaged in this business: "The dealers were not full of the milk of human
                    kindness or they would not have entered upon their calling. On the other hand they cannot have been
                    fiends in human form, for such would have gone speedily bankrupt" (p. 158). In regard to
                    the much discussed problem of whether planters bred slaves for sale, the general truth arrived at is
                    thus expressed: "Slave children were a by-product whose value could hardly be controlled
                    and whose cost had no relation to market price" (p. 174). After studying for many years the
                    documents of various kinds left behind by planters and overseers, this summary is presented:
                    "Neither planters, nor slaves, nor overseers … were cast in one
                    mold—traditions, romances, diatribes and imaginative histories to the contrary
                    notwithstanding. Plantation life and industry had in last analysis as many facets as there were
                    periods, places, and persons involved. The regime nevertheless had unity palpable always; and the
                    essence of this lay not so much in the nature of the crops as in the matter-of-course habituation of
                    all personnel to responsible and responsive adjustments between masters and men of the two
                    races" (p. 204). The few passages here quoted will serve as examples of many sane
                    conclusions of similar nature to be found by a reader pursuing the pages of this unusually sound and
                    helpful book.
            That the author is not lacking in the power to paint pictures in clear, simple, attractive English,
                    the reviewer will demonstrate by quoting more at length from the chapter on
                    "Homesteads" (pp. 336-337): 
                        Whether at the roadside or at the farther end of its "avenue," a visitor
                            encountering a gate would do well to halloo the house and await the coming of some inmate,
                            or the hounds were likely to demonstrate a hostile alertness. Inside the inclosure, with the
                            dogs quieted and greetings exchanged, life resumed its normal sway with minimum diversion by
                            reason of the guest's presence, for Southern visits were  of hours' if not of days' duration. The hens
                            cackled, with cocks ejaculating indorsement, the guineas quadracked, the martens chattered
                            in their suspended gourds, and a mocker imitated every bird that came to mind and added
                            improvisations of his own A cowbell tinkled in the distance. Conversation rose and fell on
                            the piazza as palmetto fans stirred the quiet air of midsummer noon.
                        The strokes of a tall clock in the hall were of little more concern than the silent shadow on
                            the sundial outdoors. It was twelve o'clock until it was one, and one until it was
                            two. Dinner was ready when the cook gave word for the bell to be rung. Through the hall and
                            across the back porch to the dining room went the adults, and thither the children thronged
                            after a hasty scrubbing, unless they were crowded out and scheduled for a "second
                            table". Above the viands a negro girl waved a long brush languidly to keep the
                            flies at a distance. All the meats and vegetables, and there were likely to be several of
                            each, were on the table from the first, according to "country style." Ham
                            was almost as constant as the cloth; sweet potatoes, except in the summer months before the
                            new crop came in; rice, or perhaps either grits or lye hominy as alternatives, the year
                            round. Hot biscuit and corn-bread came from the kitchen often enough to keep supplies always
                            capable of melting butter. The master of the house, though perhaps not loquacious before,
                            would press upon each person a second helping of string beans or fried chicken, as if his
                            aim in life were to produce a surfeit. The dessert might be a deep, rich, peach pie or a
                            blackberry dumpling, with syllabub as a frothy companion.
                        After dinner came a stroll to the orchards, the melon patch, the fish pond and perhaps the
                            brandy still beside a rill where crushed peaches were fermenting in open vats. In
                            mid-afternoon old and young were summoned to attack an array of watermelons, cooled in the
                            spring-house, half a surgary sphere to each participant. At dusk, whatever its hour, came a
                            more moderate supper. Then the children were made to wash their feet for bed; and erelong
                            older folk turned in, to be sung to sleep by the katydids and the mocking birds, while in
                            thee distance a hound on his haunches persistently bayed the moon.
                    
            
            By WM. O. LYNCH
         
         
            
               Indiana Battle Flags is the title of a volume recently published by the Indiana
                    Battle Flag Commission of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The Commission consists of Frank E. Strayer, Willard S. Boyle, and David I. McCormick.
                    Compiled by the last named member of the Commission, the Superintendent, the work was edited by Mrs.
                    Mindwell Crampton Wilson. The subtitle of the book furnishes a correct idea of 'the nature
                    of the contents. Besides speeches made when battle flags of the Mexican War and Civil War were
                    presented to the State of Indiana, there is "A Record of Indiana Organizations in the
                    Mexican, Civil and Spanish-American Wars." This includes  the movements of troops giving numerous news items from the 
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         Journal and a list of battles, raids, marches and various other actions of all
                    of the Indiana forces that participated in the Civil War. By far the larger portion of the volume is
                    given up to these Civil War records, and a vast number of facts are presented. Superintendent
                    McCormick says (p. 6) that the facts presented were "compiled from the official corrected
                    records of the "War Department."
            In regard to the battle flags, all of which have been reinforced and cased for proper preservation
                    and" exhibition, it is claimed that Indiana has now in the State House "the finest
                    display of the best preserved flags of any state or county in the world" (p. 6). The
                    Commission looks forward with hope that the Legislature may "provide a suitable
                    home" for the remarkable Collection which it has in its keeping.
            The book is filled with useful and interesting facts. A number of speeches are printed in full, and
                    the many news items from the Journal (
                        Indianapolis
                    ) contain much material that is valuable and which is now made easy of access to
                    historical students. The following brief item from the Journal of July 31, 1861,
                    is a sample of a vast number of longer or shorter quotations furnishing a great variety of
                    information from contemporary issues of that newspaper: 
                        The sharp shooters, flank companies in Colonel Meredith's regiment, the Nineteenth,
                            have been armed with the Enfield rifles. The other portions of the regiment will receive
                            their arms—the smooth bore muskets—today. The regiment will be
                            equipped and made ready, probably, for its march to the seat of war tomorrow. The smooth
                            bore muskets will be exchanged for rifled guns as soon as possible.
                    
            
            The volume is not supplied with a table of contents, but it is equipped with a fairly good index. It
                    is printed on good paper, and the binding is satisfactory. There are no footnotes furnishing
                    explanatory matter pertaining to anything presented, but references to the Journal
                    accompany all speeches and news items. The work extends to six-hundred eighty-two pages. It may be
                    obtained from the Superintendent of the Indiana Battle Flag Commission, State House, 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            
            In August, 1929, the Indiana Historical Society brought out the Proceedings of the
                    Southwestern Indiana Historical Society "during its ninth year" as Indiana History Bulletin, Volume VI, Extra Number 3. This pamphlet of one-hundred
                    twenty-seven pages, contains thirteen papers by as many writers and a final article, "Word
                    Pictures of Pioneer Families and Lincoln Contemporaries" by three different persons. Dr.
                    Christopher B. Coleman furnishes a paper on "Emphasis in the Work of Historical
                    Societies". Several persons deal with families that dwelt in the Lincoln neighborhood while
                    others write on the environment of Lincoln during his Indiana period. There are two articles on
                    "James Clifford Veatch," and another on the "Veatch Family".
                    There is a treatment of the "Powell Family" and another of the "Parrette
                    Family." There are two contributions from Thomas James de la Hunt. Among the remaining
                    papers, there is one by Otis E. Young on the "Development of Education in Southwestern
                    Indiana, 1816-1880." This study is a condensation of a master's thesis which was
                    prepared while the author was a graduate student at the University of 
                        Iowa
                    .
            The Southwestern Society is a very active organization. Its officers are enthusiastic students of
                    local history, and they and the other members of the Society have a pride in the history of the
                    "Pocket". During the last year or two various members belonging to this Society
                    have sought diligently to find material bearing on the standards of life represented by the pioneer
                    families of 
                        Spencer County
                     and adjacent areas in the days of Lincoln's youth. Their efforts are laudable
                    and should be continued. There is one thing that some of these investigators seem to forget, which
                    is, that a family on a new frontier obliged to live crudely and to go without many of the things
                    essential to comfort and culture often became more refined and rose to a much higher standard of
                    living with the passing of years. The conditions under which a family may have lived in 1855 or 1865
                    furnish no certain index as to the standard maintained by the same family in 1816-1830.
            The Annual Report x>f the 
                        Mount Vernon
                     Ladies' Association of the Union for 1929 is very interesting. The members of
                    this association are doing a splendid work in a very efficient and modest manner. The Vice-Regent
                    for Indiana is  Mrs. Benjamin D. Walcott of 
                        Muncie
                    , to whom we are indebted for a copy of the Report.
            
            The extreme care which the women of this organization exercise when attempting to reproduce original
                    features of 
                        Washington
                    's home is highly commendable. The account which the Resident Secretary and
                    Superintendent, Mr. Harrison H. Dodge, gives (pp. 40--41) of the effort to discover the correct
                    pattern of the first wall-paper that covered the walls of the General's bedroom is worthy
                    of reprinting here: 
                        Following my announcement, at last Council, that I had found a fragment of what I believed to
                            be the first wall-paper that adorned the 
                                Washington
                             bedroom, an extensive correspondence with experts in this country and abroad
                            ensued. Photographs of the "feature pattern" were sent even to
                                    
                        England, France
                     , Alsace, and 
                                Switzerland
                            , hoping that by some good fortune this pattern might be recognized, and
                            perhaps, the original blocks be thereby located. Much interest in the search was aroused,
                            but nothing came of it.
                        By consent of the Regent, a "screen slide" was then made of the photograph
                            and shown by a lecturer on "interior decorations" (Miss Temple, of 
                                Washington
                            ), who was asked to state that the 
                                Mount Vernon
                             Ladies' Association wished to be informed of any clue which might lead
                            to the discovery of the exact and entire pattern.
                        This mention subsequently reached an aged lady, Miss Frances H. Hoffman, living in 
                                Baltimore
                            , and brought to her memory a long-forgotten episode of her childhood.
                        It seems that she was brought by her grandfather to see 
                                Mount Vernon
                             near the close of the Civil War. (Visitors were not allowed then, except on
                            "pass" from the U. S. War Department.)
                        The expectant child—on finding the Mansion empty—was much disappointed,
                            and the pervading air of solitude oppressed her.
                        When, at length, they entered the room in which General 
                                Washington
                             died, the child noticed a bit of color on the wall (where the plaster had
                            fallen) and asked what it meant.
                        The attendant said: "Little Miss, that is what is left of the wall-paper the General
                            had here. If you won't tell on me, I will give it to you for a keepsake."
                            Naturally, the child treasured this souvenir of 
                                Mount Vernon
                             and put it safely away on reaching home.
                        There were two pieces of it and she mailed them to me, a few months ago, to
                            compare with what I had found. They proved to be part of the same design! The especial importance of what she sent me lay in the fact that the
                            pigment colors of same more closely approximated the original than did
                            mine—which had been dimmed by action of the calcine plaster under which it had
                            been hidden since 1892.
                        After the Christmas holidays and the tide of pilgrimage slackened, I resumed this interesting
                            research work. One alternative remained—that of removing more and more of the
                            white-mortar wall surface, hoping almost against hope, that more scraps might be
                            revealed—  fragments that had evaded the
                            efforts of the "scraper" to remove them 127 years ago.
                        Experimental exploration at various points in the room were, at first, without reward.
                            Presently, however, by gently tapping the surface, a difference in
                            resonance was detected (which indicated a loosening of the plaster), and right there more small pieces of the paper came to light! Enough were
                            found, finally to complete the design we had hunted the "world
                            over" for.
                        So tenaciously did this paper adhere to the original brown-mortar plaster, and so easily did
                            the pigment flake off, we had to remove the plaster and paper together, afterwards wetting
                            the plaster sufficiently to separate the paper from it.
                        The "picture-puzzle" was, at length, accurately worked out and submitted to
                            wall-paper experts for reproduction—the color motif insisted on to be that of the
                            valued fragments received from the lady in 
                                Baltimore
                            .
                        The attractive design of this paper is typically French. It is thought probable that a supply
                            of it (and other patterns) was brought over by the French decorator, Sears, whom 
                                Washington
                             employed in 1775 to stucco the ceilings of the West Parlor and Family Dining
                            Boom, and to whom the paneling and ornate mantels of those rooms is attributed.
                        Unquestionably the walls of 
                                Washington
                            's bedroom were first plastered and papered in 1775, and we assume that
                            the change to the white-mortar finish it now has occurred about 1802, when Judge Bush-rod
                            Washsington caused alterations of the room to be made for his occupancy. To restore it now
                            to its very first appearance—as General 
                                Washington
                             saw it—will be hailed with popular enthusiasm and delight.
                    
            
         
         
         
            Comment and News
            In bygone days, it was not uncommon for intelligent persons to speak of the "sobering truth
                    of history". Within a limited circle, the reading of sane, unbiased accounts from the pens
                    of patient investigators who seek only the truth is still a practice. How much of the real value of
                    history comes to those who care only for historical narratives that "crackle and
                    sparkle" it is difficult to say. There is no reason why scholars who have carefully sought
                    out the facts of history should not "breath warmth and life into the dead bones",
                    but one wonders whether the "new school" of writers so actively engaged in
                    producing volumes of history and biography are not doing as much harm as good. Is it really true
                    that persons above the moron grade who have an interest in the past can be induced to read only
                    those histories and biographies that are replete with thrills? Such books are certainly not to be
                    recommended solely because the authors write with grace and fire. It is not enough that a volume in
                    the realm of history shall be gripping and entertaining. To be truly useful, to deserve reading, it
                    must represent an honest effort to set forth the truth. It is the business of the historian to
                    remove prejudice, not to create it, and a book that does not fulfill this requirement does not
                    deserve to live.
            Without being a prophet, one can easily foretell that many of the works that fall in the class styled
                    the "New Biography" will not live. Books of this type are being extensively
                    purchased by readers. Wide sales are attractive to publishers and authors alike, and biographies are
                    coming thick and fast from the presses. Several dozens of new lives of persons whose careers were
                    colorful, or that may be made colorful, will appear in the next two or three years. The reading
                    public will tire of them in time and a demand will develop for saner treatments. The waters having
                    been muddied by floods of hurriedly written volumes, there will be a call for a purer and steadier
                    supply. The works prepared in response to this call will be different—neither as dull and
                    stilted as the "Old Biography" nor as effervescent and unreliable as the
                    "New Biography". There is a good day coming for the trained historian  who loves the truth and who will not depart therefrom, but who will
                    expend constructive energy on writing as well as on research.
            In each number of the Magazine there will be an attempt to review one or more
                    histories or biographies. In the September issue there appeared a brief review of The
                        Tragic Era, the latest book of Claude G. Bowers. In the present issue a review of a recent
                    publication, Life and Labor in the Old South by Dr. Ulrich B. Phillips, is
                    presented. It is not the policy to review or notice a wide range of works in the general field of
                    American history, but it is hoped that some good may be accomplished through reviews or notices of a
                    limited number of volumes that do not pertain to the history of Indiana.
            The conclusion of an article in the Western 
                            Pennsylvania
                         Historical Magazine for October, 1929, "Reminiscence of the
                    Rivers" by James A. Henderson, will interest Hoosiers who know something of the traffic on
                    the Ohio River. Says Mr. Henderson: 
                        Many people are of the opinion that the glory of the rivers has departed with the decline of
                            the freight and passenger boats. If you were on Water Street [
                                Pittsburgh
                            ] and could see fifteen or twenty steamboats departing, you would say the
                            steamboat business is good. But looking out in the river, you see a towboat with eight or
                            ten barges moving along. You don't think much about it. That boat with the ten
                            barges contains more tonnage than fifteen or twenty of the old-time steamboats. Instead of a
                            decline in the river tonnage it is far greater today than ever before.
                    
            
            The writer points out that in the old days, a great fleet of coal boats left for the South whenever
                    there was a freshet. Because "none go South in our time many people are of the opinion that
                    the coal business is ruined". Combatting this notion, Mr. Henderson declares that
                    "there is one industrial concern that brings more coal into 
                        Pittsburgh
                     harbor in one year than ever went down the 
                        Ohio
                     in any single year". He adds this interesting statement concerning the present
                    prospect of Ohio River navigation: 
                        When the last two dams are finished this year [1929] making fifty dams in the Ohio
                                River chain, 
                                Pittsburgh
                             manufacturers will be able to ship their products every day in the year down
                            the 
                                Ohio
                             into  the Mississippi
                            River to 
                                New Orleans
                             to sea-going vessels that reach all the markets of the world.
                    
            
            Those who bring men of past eras into the present and attempt to line them up in reference to
                    political, economic and social questions of our day often commit grievous errors. Writers, public
                    speakers and representatives of patriotic organizations are too prone to assume that reformers,
                    liberals and revolutionists of the past, could they be summoned to participate in present contests,
                    would stand for just what they supported when they lived and walked among men. Of this there can be
                    no certainty. Is it not more likely that an honest liberal of a bygone era would, if here, be an
                    honest liberal now, and an honest conservative of another period an honest conservative now? It is
                    the spirit in which a man performed in his time that must be understood in order to determine what
                    position he would probably assume if confronted by the conditions of today. It is very probable that
                    liberals and revolutionists of periods long past would quickly repudiate the arguments and actions
                    of many of their worshipful followers or descendants of this day and hour, if there were any way to
                    bring the matter to a testing.
            There appeared a few weeks ago the first number of the Hoosier Magazine. This
                    announcement number was devoted to 
                        Brown County
                    . The second number, it is promised will relate to the same county, being a memorial
                    issue dedicated to the late Theodore Clement Steele. Later issues are to deal with other counties of
                    the State until each county has been honored with a number. The new periodical is to be published
                    monthly by the Hoosier Publishing Company of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Mr. M. Z. Allen is to serve as managing editor, and Miss Mabel Sturtevant as assistant
                    editor. The subscription price of the Hoosier Magazine is to be $2.50
                    per year.
            There will be published in March, 1930, as a separate pamphlet an index of the first twenty-five
                    volumes of the Indiana Magazine of History. It will not be possible to furnish
                    this free to subscribers, but copies will be sold at a reasonable price to all individual
                    subscribers and to all libraries that  may desire to purchase
                    one or more copies. The present issue rounds out the twenty-fifth year in the life of the Magazine, and it is believed that the proposed index will prove very valuable.
            The proposed one-hundred dollar fund which is desired that it may be used to stimulate the writing of
                    papers pertaining to Indiana History, is rapidly growing. The Editor's soul has been
                    stirred since the September issue went forth by the receipt of one pledge of ten dollars. The plan
                    to raise this stupendous sum was first announced in the June number. No response came between that
                    issue and the next, so it is easily seen that the prospect of ultimate success has brightened. If
                    pledges for ninety dollars are forthcoming, the Editor has agreed to supply another ten. Now that
                    Dr. Christopher B. Coleman has joined him, only eighty dollars remain to be raised. It is not meant
                    that the twenty dollars are in hand—the Secretary of the Historical Society and the
                    Editor of the Magazine have not yet parted with the cash. They stand ready to do
                    so at any time following recovery from their Christmas shopping, however, but eight other interested
                    and affluent Hoosiers will have to come forward with pledges in order to cause either of the present
                    subscribers to lay his contribution on the altar of Clio.
         
         
         
            Reprints
            Reprints of articles published in the Magazine may be had by any contributor who
                    may desire them. Application should be made as soon as the paper has been accepted for publication.
                    Dr. R. C. Buley, the Business Manager, will furnish prices on request, and place orders for such a
                    number of copies of any reprint as may be wanted.
         
         
            Wanted
            We are sure that some of our readers can aid us to obtain the desired publications listed below. The
                    Library of Indiana University and other libraries in different parts of the country are in need of
                    copies of the issues mentioned in order to complete files. For older and rarer numbers, prices above
                    the regular rates will be paid. Persons possessing any of the desired magazines or other
                    publications, will confer a great favor by writing to Dr. R. C. Buley, Business Manager of the Indiana Magazine of History.
            
            
               The Indianian. This magazine was published at 
                        Indianapolis
                     from 1898 to 1906, six volumes in all. Wanted, a complete file. Partial sets will be
                    considered.
            
               Indiana, Past and Present. This little, temporary periodical was published during
                    1914. Wanted, a complete file, and also an extra copy of Number 1.
            
               Indiana Magazine of History. Wanted issues of this quarterly from 1905-1912,
                    inclusive, and of the March number of 1913. From $1.00 to $2.00 per copy will
                    be paid for separate numbers up to and including that of March, 1918. There is a special need for
                    four or more copies of number 1, volume X (March, 1914). Wanted also, the following issues of later
                    years: December, 1921; March, 1922; double-number, June-September, 1925; December, 1926.
            
            
               The Open Road. Wanted copies of this monthly for: March, April, May, June, July,
                    August, September, and November, 1910; March, July, August, and September, 1911; April and May,
                    1912; July, 1913; January, 1914.
            
               Bulletins of the Indiana Historical Commission. Numbers 16 and 18. These contain
                    the Proceedings of the Southwestern Indiana Historical Society for 1922 and 1923.
            
               Commencement Programs of Indiana University. Wanted to complete the file of the
                    University Library the following, but duplicates of those listed and of any programs prior to 1900
                    will be accepted and valued: Programs of 1st to 19th commencements, 1828-1848; 22nd to 24th,
                    1851-1853; 26th to 28th, 1855-1857; 30th and 31st, 1859-1860; 33rd to 43rd, 1862-1872; 44th and
                    45th, 1873-1874; 47th, 1876; 50th and 51st, 1879-1880; 53rd, 1882; 55th and 56th, 1884-1885; 59th
                    and 60th, 1887-1888; 62nd, 1891; 64th to 67th, 1893-1897.
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
