
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 10, Issue 4, pages 331-431. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:10+issue:4+year:1914&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            The Academies of Indiana
            By JOHN HARDIN THOMAS, A. M. Superintendent of Schools, Medora, Indiana
            This is only a tentative study of the academies of the State. Superintendent
                    Thomas has used all the materials available. The subject offers great
                    difficulties on account of the nature of the source material. Every historian
                    knows how dangerous it is to found a statement on traditional evidence. The
                    subject, however, is one of wide and vital interest. The study is published not
                    so much for its final value as for the purpose of arousing attention to the
                    necessity of collecting the materials for the history of the Academies before it
                    is too late. The editor will appreciate any material such as catalogues,
                    advertisements, announcements, or reports concerning any Academy of the State.
                    This study shows what a powerful influence they have been in the
                    State's history. They cannot be neglected, especially in the history of
                    our schools.–ED.
            CHAPTER I. THE NON-SECTARIAN ACADEMIES
            PRINCETON ACADEMY
            
            In 1818, the General Assembly of Indiana passed an act, approved December 31,
                    1818, entitled, "An Act for the Encouragement of Religion and
                    Learning." By it-the Board of County Com-misisoners of 
                        Gibson county
                     were given the power to appoint three fit persons of the county as
                    trustees, under the name and style of "The Board of Trustees of the 
                        Princeton
                     Academy." The county agent was given the power to convey
                    to the board of trustees and to their successors, lot number one in the town of 
                        Princeton
                    , to be used for "the building of houses of religious
                    worship and seminaries  of
                    learning." Pursuant to this act, the county commissioners at their next
                    meeting in May, 1819, appointed Alexander Devin, William Prince, and Robert
                    Evans trustees "of the 
                        Princeton
                     Academy."
            In 1822, a new "board of trustees was appointed, consisting of Alexander
                    Devin, Robert Milburn, and Samuel Hall. The county agent, Robert Stockwell, was
                    authorized by the commissioners to convey to the board of trustees, lot number
                    one, as provided for in the Act of December 31, 1818.
            The 
                        Princeton
                     Academy never materialized. Lot number one had been deeded to 
                        Gibson county
                     in 1818, by Robert Evans. The next board of trustees that met on
                    May 5, 1826, acted under the law of the General Assembly providing for the
                    establishment of Public Seminaries. The board consisted of five men instead of
                    three, as provided under the Act of December 31, 1818, and out of this movement
                    came the 
                        Princeton
                     Seminary which was completed in 1829.1
            
            MADISON ACADEMY
            
            
               
                        Madison
                     Academy was founded at 
                        Madison
                    , January 11, 1820. Little can be ascertained now concerning its
                    early history. The building was a three story brick and is now used by the high
                    school. Professor Barnes taught in the academy from about 1858 to 1864.
            The course of study was about the equivalent of our present high school course.
                    The Academy was open to males only.
            It was discontinued about 1864 or 1865.2
            
            CAMBRIDGE ACADEMY
            
            January 13, 1826, the General Assembly of Indiana passed an act authorizing the
                    trustees, John Dawson, Andrew Ray and Samuel Goucher of 
                        Dearborn county
                    , "to have, purchase, receive, possess, – lands,
                    tenements, rents, monies, and effect of any kind for the promotion of education
                    and for the establishment of said Academy, with the style of the trustees of 
                        Cambridge
                     Academy."
            Nothing more could be found concerning this Academy and I conclude that it never
                        materialized.3
            
            
               
                  1
                  Laws of Indiana, 1818, 93, 355;
                        1819, 67; 1822, 113; 1824, 116; 1825, 96; Annual Report of the 
                                Princeton
                             Public Schools, 1910, by Harold Barnes.
               
                  2 Letter: Donald Du Shane, Superintendent of Schools, 
                            Madison
                        , Ind.
               
                  3
                  Indiana State Laws, 1839,
                    94.
            
            
            HANOVER ACADEMY
            
            
               
                        Hanover
                     Academy was organized at 
                        Hanover
                    , 
                        Jefferson county
                    , January 1, 1827, by Rev. John Finley Crowe, D. D., grandfather of
                    Dr. John M. Coulter, ex-president of Indiana University. It was incorporated
                    January 6, 1829, by John Finley Crowe, James H. Johnson, Williamson Dunn, George
                    Logan, John M. Dickey, Samuel Smock, William Reed, Samuel Gregg, and Jeremiah
                    Sullivan.
            The founding of the Academy was but a preliminary step to the founding of 
                        Hanover
                     College. On January 1, 1833, the articles of incorporation of the
                    Academy were surrendered and the College was incorporated. In 1843 the charter
                    for 
                        Hanover
                     College was surrendered to the Legislature in return for a charter
                    for the University of 
                        Madison
                    , and the Academy was again chartered as a separate institution.
                    Within a year, however, the charters for the 
                        Madison
                     University and 
                        Hanover
                     Academy were both surrendered and 
                        Hanover
                     College was rechartered.
            From 1843, legally speaking, there has been no 
                        Hanover
                    , Academy, but the College has maintained a preparatory department,
                    accredited by the State Board of Education as the equivalent of a commissioned
                    high school.
            The Academy never owned any property, nor occupied a building exclusively, nor
                    has it ever had the exclusive use of any library or laboratory.
            The board of trustees of the College, at their last meeting in June 1913, ordered
                    that the preparatory department be abandoned at the end of the academic year.4
            
            JENNINGS ACADEMY
            
            The Jennings Academy was located at 
                        Vernon
                    , 
                        Jennings county
                    , Indiana. It was organized about 1828 by Dr. E. F. Peabody, Dr.
                    Burt, Rev. Daniel Lattimore, W. A. Bullock, Alanson Andrews, and Rev. J. B. New.
                    The first building erected was a two story brick with two rooms and an outside
                    stairway. This was known as the Old Seminary. It was abandoned in 1859 and has
                    since been used as a residence.
            In 1859 the present two story four room brick was built, and the name was changed
                    to the Jennings Academy.
            Some of the teachers of the Old Seminary were Miss Elizabeth Leiper, 1828; Prof.
                    Beck, Prof. William Butler, and Prof. 
                  
                     4 Letter: Pres. W. A. Millis, 
                                Hanover
                             College; Bdson, Presbytertanism in
                            Indiana.
               
                     A. G. Dunning and wife, during the period
                    from 1845 to 1852; and Prof. Frank Martin and Rev. Farris. The attendance was
                    about ninety. Two of the students of this period still living and worthy of note
                    are Capt. Wallace Foster, "The Flag Man," of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and Mrs. Mary A. Leavitt, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , daughter of Dr. E. F. Peabody.
            Due to the teachings of Prof. Dunning and wife, Vernon became noted as a literary
                    center and was poetically called "The Classic Shades." The
                    Seminary was co-educational. The course of study included reading, grammar,
                    geography, arithmetic, algebra, philosophy, chemistry, rhetoric, astronomy,
                    Latin, and German. Some of the old text-books were Butler's Grammar,
                    Davis's Arithmetic, and Blair's Rhetoric.
            Mr. O. Phelps was the first principal of the Academy in 1859. He was followed in
                    1869 by C. W. Inyersts and W. PI. Venable, in 1861, of the Southwestern Normal
                    School of 
                  Lebanon, Ohio
               . He was assisted by Miss E. J.
                    Collins. The attendance was about one hundred and thirty. The course of study
                    included algebra, geometry, chemistry, Latin, French, elocution, spelling, and
                    daily lessons in Spencerian penmanship. Vocal music was taught twice per week.
                    The school was governed by the "self reporting system."
            M. V. Van Arsdale was principal in 1863-64, with Miss E. J. Collins and Miss
                    Vawter assistants. The Academy was organized into three departments. The Higher
                    Department included courses in Latin and Greek; Greek, Roman, and modern
                    history; classical and sacred geography; logic, rhetoric, composition, and
                    elocution; chemistry and botany; surveying and navigation; higher arithmetic and
                    algebra; and the constitution of the 
                        United States
                    . The tuition was $7.00 for twelve weeks. The
                    Intermediate Department included courses in English grammar, intellectual and
                    written arithmetic, geography, writing, reading, composition, elocution, and the
                    constitution of the 
                        United States
                    . The tuition was $3.00 for twelve weeks. The Lower
                    Department included courses in primary grammar, arithmetic (Ray's first
                    and second books), first principles of penmanship, reading, to the fourth
                    reader, and orthography. Tuition, $2.50 for twelve weeks. Each pupil
                    was also taxed to pay fuel expenses.
            The Academy was co-educational. It continued until the common schools were
                    organized about 1870, and from that time the building has been used by the
                    Vernon 'Public Schools.5
            
            
               
                  5 Letters: "Wallace Poster, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , and Supt. L. A. Jackson, 
                            Vernon
                        . Indiana School Journal, 1859, p. 59, and
                        1861, p. 373.
            
            
            EUGENE ACADEMY
            
            The Eugene Academy was incorporated December 23, 1829, by Samuel Baldridge, John
                    M. Coleman, James Groenendyke, William Clark, Josephus Collett, Stephen S.
                    Collett, John R. Porter, Richard Taylor, and Asaph Hill. It
                    was styled the Eugene Academy and was given the usual powers of corporations of
                    its kind.
            No other information could be ascertained concerning this Academy so I do not
                    know whether it ever materialized or not. I presume that it was located, if at
                    all, at 
                        Eugene
                    , 
                        Vermillion county
                    .6
            
            THE RED BRICK ACADEMY
            
            In the early 20's the Friends of 
                        Richmond
                     built a brick meetinghouse on the grounds called the Public Square.
                    The'lot contained about one acre and was situated between Fourth and
                    Fifth streets on south B street, where the Finley school now stands. This ground
                    had been previously given to the city by John Smith. In 1823 or 1824, after the
                    building had been completed, the city desiring the use of the building, bought
                    it of the Friends for what it had cost them to build it. This was known as the
                    "Red Brick School House." Since it was later used for an
                    Academy I have chosen here to call it The Red Brick Academy to distinguish it
                    from the other schools and academies of 
                        Richmond
                    .
            The first school was taught in the building about 1834, by Mr. E. H. Buckley. In
                    1835, William M. Gorkin, A. B., of Jefferson College, opened an Academy in it
                    for both sexes. In 1839, J. Arnold taught in this building. In 1848, William W.
                    Austin opened school in it. In 1850-51, Milton Hollingsworth, assisted by Phoebe
                    Crawford and Daniel Clark, taught a term. Since that time the building has been
                    used by the public schools.7
            
            VINCENNES ACADEMY
            
            The 
                        Vincennes
                     Academy was incorporated January 23, 1836. The act of incorporation
                    provided for a board of commissioners consisting of John Scott, Joseph Somes,
                    Samuel Wise, William Burtch, John C. Clark, and Abner T. Ellis, with power to
                    open the books and receive subscriptions. The Academy was to be styled the 
                        Vincennes
                     Academy, and had the power to hold personal and real property to
                        
                  
                     6
                            Laws of Indiana, 1829.
                  
                     7 Elsie Marshal]: History of the 
                                    Richmond
                                 Schools, Report of Public Schools of 
                                Richmond
                            , 1912. Letter, do.
               
                     the extent of $10,000 in value.
                    The capital stock was to consist of $10,000, divided into shares of
                    $10.00 each. It also provided for instruction in any of the
                    languages, sciences, fine arts, general literature, and any other branches or
                    departments that the trustees might authorize. Also for the establishment of a
                    female department at the discretion of the trustees.
            No further trace of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Academy could be found. It probably gave way to the 
                        Knox county
                     Seminary and never ma-teralized.8
            
            THE POE ACADEMY
            
            The Poe Academy was located at 
                        Richmond
                    . It existed only for a short time and was perhaps never widely
                    known by this name. I have here designated it by this name to distinguish it
                    from the other Academies of 
                        Richmond
                    .
            In 1838 or 1839 James M. Poe, afterwards an influential citizen of 
                        Richmond
                    , opened an Academy in the basement of the Pearl Street Methodist
                    church. He was assisted by E. A. Bishop, A. B., of 
                  Oxford, Ohio
               , and by Elizabeth Rogers. The Academy was
                    conducted for about ten years, when it probably died for lack of support.9
            
            DUBLIN ACADEMY
            
            The 
                        Dublin
                     Academy was incorporated February 18, 1839. The trustees named in
                    the act of incorporation are Jehosephat Morris, Jonathan Huddelston, Pleasant
                    Johnson, Anselm Butler, and Caleb W. Hill, of 
                        Wayne county
                    .
            The corporation was styled the 
                        Dublin
                     Academy. It was given powers to hold real and personal property.
                    The capital stock was not to exceed $25,000, and was to be divided
                    into shares of $25.00 each. It also had power to provide instructors
                    in any of the languages, sciences, fine arts, general literature, etc.
            Nothing more could be ascertained of this Academy and that is as far, probably,
                    as it ever materialized.10
            
            
               
                  8
                  Laws of Indiana, 1536; also letter:
                        Pres. Horace Ellis, 
                            Vincennes
                         University.
               
                  9 Elsie Marshall: History of the 
                                Richmond
                             Schools, Report of the Public Schools of 
                            Richmond
                        , 1912.
               
                  10
                        Laws of Indiana, 1839, p. 96.
            
            
            MARTINSVILLE FEMALE ACADEMY
            
            For several years the 
                        Morgan County
                     Seminary, which opened in 1839, was the center of learning not only
                    for the county seat of 
                        Martinsville
                    , but for the whole county. Many of the higher branches of learning
                    were taught, and for those days it gave a thorough preparation for College.
                    During the 40's, however, the Seminary began to decline and was
                    attended by students only from Martinsville and the surrounding district.
            In 1853 the Seminary was sold, in pursuance of the law of 1852, and after that
                    numerous private subscription schools sprang up to meet the demand for higher
                    education. Among these private schools was the Martinsville Female Academy,
                    which was founded by M. L. Johnson in 1855, in the rooms over Mr.
                    Creary's store.
            The Academy prospered for a number of years, but for lack of proper support the
                    ideals of the founder were never realized and it died out probably about
                        1860.11
            
            CRAWFORDSVILLE FEMALE ACADEMY
            
            The 
                        Crawfordsville
                     Female Academy was incorporated February 24, 1840, by Israel T.
                    Canby, John Hawkins, James Thompson, James Hannah, Moses Humphreys, John Beard,
                    and Francis H. Fry.
            It was given the usual powers granted to such corporations, including the right
                    to hold real and personal property.
            I do not know whether this Academy ever materialized or not, but I am of the
                    opinion that it did not as there was a Female Seminary at 
                        Crawfordsville
                     in 1855, and in all probability it took the place of the
                        Academy.12
            
            THE WARNER ACADEMY
            
            The Warner Academy was located at 
                        Richmond
                    . I have here given it this name because it was opened in the
                    "Warner Building," which stood where the City building now
                    stands on North Fifth street.
            On the death of Dr. Ithmar Warner, in March 1835, this property was, willed by
                    him to the city, the income from which was to be devoted to the education of
                    poor children. The will was contested 
                  
                     11
                            History of Morgan, 
                                    Monroe
                                 and 
                                    Brown Counties
                                , p. 97.
                  
                     12
                            Laws of Indiana, 1839; also letter of Otis E. Hall,
                            County Superintendent 
                                Montgomery county
                            , 
                                Crawfordsville
                            .
               
                     by his relatives and the city compromised
                    the case by paying them $800 for the property. The building was used
                    for many years for city offices and for school purposes. On account of the
                    provision of the will the city still pays $250 per year rent to the
                    school board for the ground on which the City building stands.
            Miss Mary Thorpe, a well educated woman of 
                        Washington
                    , D. C, taught here in about 1836. She was a successful teacher. In
                    1839, George S. Rea and Edward W. Kennedy taught in this building. In 1840,
                    Rawson Vaile and his wife opened, in the Warner Building, a high school or
                    Academy, which ran for two years. Professor Vaile was a graduate of Amherst
                    College and was a very successful teacher. J. Arnold taught there after 1839,
                    and after 1850 the building was used for public school purposes.13
            
            SPRING CREEK ACADEMY
            
            The Spring Creek Academy was located about three miles southwest of 
                        Springville
                    , 
                        Lawrence county
                    . It was incorporated February 9, 1843, by John L. Short, Ari
                    Armstrong, and C. W. Short.
            The Academy was a one room building which stood within about a half-mile of the
                        mouth of Spring Creek, in the valley of Indian Creek,
                    on what is now the Armstrong Brothers farm. It had no windows on the side next
                    to the road.
            The names of the only teachers that could be found were Robert Armstrong and
                    Doddridge Short. The attendance was about fifty pupils.
            The course of study included the common branches, and at one time some of the
                    higher branches were taught. The school was coeducational. It began at 8 a. m.
                    and closed at 5 p. m.
            This Academy continued for about fifteen years. The building has long ago been
                        destroyed.14
            
            TIPPECANOE ACADEMY
            
            The 
                        Tippecanoe
                     Academy was incorporated February 9, 1843. The trustees named in
                    the act of incorporation are George W. Stacey, Pleasant Grubb, William G.
                    Tevault, James Hall, and Albert Bass. The Academy was to be styled the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     Academy. The trustees were given the usual powers given to such
                    corporations 
                  
                     13 Elsie Marshall, History of 
                                    Richmond
                                 Schools, Report of Public Schools of 
                                Richmond
                            , 1912.
                  
                     14
                            Laws of Indiana, 1843, p. 35; also Letter of Supt. L.
                            B. Sanders, 
                                Mitchell
                            , Ind., with data by Quiney Short, Springville.
               
                     including the power to hold property. The
                    first meeting of the trustees was to be held in the town of 
                        Monoquet
                    , 
                        Kosciusko county
                    . It could. not be ascertained whether this Academy ever
                    materialized or not. Superintendent Edson B. Sarber, of 
                        Warsaw
                    , and Charles Thomas, trustee of the township in which Monoquet is
                    located, both made diligent inquiry concerning it but could find no trace of it.
                    They did find, however, parties there who remembered the trustees of the
                        Academy.15
            
            ASSOCIATE ACADEMY OF CROWN POINT
            
            In July, 1847, Rev. William Townley, A. M., opened a high school in a room of his
                    dwelling and advertised the following academic course of study: First Grade,
                    orthography, reading, writing, and arithmetic, $2.50; Second Grade,
                    geography, English, grammar, natural philosophy and chemistry, $3.00;
                    Third Grade, algebra, geometry, surveying, and Latin, $3.50.
            This school continued until September, 1855, when an educational association was
                    formed for the purpose of raising not less than $500 for building a
                    school-house. The stock was divided into shares of $25 each, one-half
                    to be paid in cash and the balance in sixty days after October 1, 1855. The
                    following subscriptions were made: E. M. Cramer, $50; W. A. Clark,
                    $100; Frederick Foster, $50; Harvey Pettibone,
                    $100; Thomas Clark, $100; R. A. Eddy, $25; C.
                    M. Mason, $50; R. M. Pratt, $25; William Townley,
                    $100; Henry Wells, $100, and David Turner,
                    $100; total $800.
            A good substantial frame building was erected and was called the
                    "Associate Academy of 
                        Crown Point
                    ." Rev. Townley continued for a time as principal and the
                    Academy was a success, but soon the entire enterprise collapsed and the building
                    was sold to Luther & Holton who transformed it into a store room.16
            
            FAIRVIEW ACADEMY
            
            The Fairview Academy was located near Fairview, 
                        Rush county
                    . It was incorporated February 16, 1848, by John W. Shawhan, G. B.
                    Rush, William H. Beck, John V. Lindsey, George Campbell, Garrett Wykoff, David
                    H. Drummond, Ephraim Jeffrey, and James Hannah. By the articles of incorporation
                    the trustees were given the authority to hold real property, not to exceed
                    $5,000 in value, 
                  
                     15
                            Laws of Indiana, 1843, p. 55'; also Letter of
                            Supt. Edson B. Sarber, 
                                Warsaw
                            , Ind.
                  
                     16
                            History of 
                                    Porter
                                 and 
                                    Lake Counties
                                , 492-3.
               
                     to appoint teachers, to found an
                    institution of learning, and to confer degrees upon its graduates.
            Pursuant to the act of 1848, W. W. Thrasher and Henry R. Prichard canvassed the
                    community and enlisted the support of the most influential citizens. William
                    Shawhan donated four acres of ground for the site, and the necessary funds for
                    building were soon raised. The building was finished in the fall of 1849.
            By chance, in the spring of 1849, Mr. A. R. Benton, who. had just received his
                    Master of Arts Degree from Bethany College, 
                        West Virginia
                    , was visiting relatives in the neighborhood of Fair-view, and was
                    employed as the first principal of the Academy. It was first opened in the
                    office of Dr. Ephriam Clifford before the Academy building was completed.
            The course of study was similar to that of the best Academies of the State, and
                    was perhaps the equal of any school in the West. Students from several States
                    came to it and its fame spread far and wide.
            Professor Benton severed his connections with the Academy in 1854, to accept a
                    position as teacher of Foreign Languages in Northwestern Christian University,
                    at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and the history of the Academy closes with this date. Nothing
                    could be ascertained concerning the number of teachers, the number of pupils or
                    the equipment.17
            
            PRINCETON FEMALE ACADEMY
            
            The 
                        Princeton
                     Female Academy was incorporated February 16, 1848, by Samuel Hall,
                    Alexander Devin, and James Boswell, trustees. It appears that the movement
                    originated in 1838, when the Methodist church was built and the basement was
                    fitted up for a female Academy. By the act of 1848, all deeds, grants,
                    conveyances, etc., made to the board of trustees prior to that time, were by
                    that act to be as good and effectual in law as if the trustees had been an
                    incorporated body, and "all acts of Samuel Hall, Robert Stockwell, and
                    William Daniel as trustees of the Academy since November 1, 1839, were to be as
                    good and effectual in law as if the Academy had been incorporated, and they had
                    been duly appointed as trustees thereof."
            The first school in the M. E. church basement was taught by Mrs. Fanny Eagar in
                    1838-39. A complete list of the teachers 
                  
                     17
                            Laws of Indiana, 1848, p. 562; also 
                        
                                    Rushville
                                 Republican, Jan. 2, 1914,. "The Obituary
                            of A. R. Benton."
               
                     could not be found but the Misses Walling
                    probably taught there in the early and middle 40's, and Mr. Julius Jury
                    and wife, of 
                        Evansville
                    , in 1847-48.
            On December 4, 1849, Miss T. H. Smith began a session of eleven weeks, which was
                    called the "Female College."
            On January 15, 1850, the 
                        Princeton
                     Female College was incorporated by the Indiana Conference of the M.
                    E. church, with the following trustees: John Kiger, Samuel Rell, Elisha Embree,
                    Robert Stockwell, Andrew Lewis, Alfred Poland, James Boswell, T. A. Goodwin, F.
                    A. Hester, J. R. Jones, C. C. Graham, John Mcln-tire, William J. Lonery, John
                    Shrader, and John R. Hugo. A peculiar provision in the charter provided for a
                    public examination to be held annually just before commencement, to which the
                    patrons and trustees should be invited, "to show the fidelity of the
                    teachers and the diligence of the scholars." The College ran about
                    three years.
            On the first Monday in March, 1853, John Orr., A.M., and his wife organized the 
                        Princeton
                     Female Institute, which was held in the M. E. church basement.
                    There were three departments: Primary, Academic, and Collegiate. The Collegiate
                    Department was virtually a miniature College. Its courses included algebra,
                    geometry, trigonometry, mensuration, botany, chemistry, geology, astronomy,
                    natural philosophy, ancient and modern history, political economy, moral and
                    intellectual philosophy, natural history, evidences of Christianity, and weekly
                    exercises in composition. This lasted until 1854. On July 5, 1854, Miss R, P.
                    Burr opened a "Female School" in the basement of the church
                    which ran one year. In 1854 the Seminary was opened to females again and the
                    church basement: was abandoned for school purposes.
            In April, 1835, a female high school was organized by Henry T. Morton, and in the
                    spring of 1856 the Academy was completed. It was located on the east side of
                    West street, between Emerson and Chestnut streets, a little north of the middle
                    of the block. It was a two-story frame building with five rooms. An outside
                    stairway with two landings led to the second floor at the end of the building.
                    The Academy was seated with 
                        Boston
                     school chairs and desks. The. chairs were made of maple and
                    white-wood and were varnished. The desks were made of walnut and cherry. It was
                    heated by means of a Resor's Globe Furnace, and was ventilated by
                    Emerson's Ventilating Apparatus. In school equipment it was provided
                    with maps, globes, chemicals and physical apparatus, a geological cabinet,
                    containing several thousand specimens belonging to the principal  and a library. The building and equipment were the
                    best that could be found in Indiana. The original plan included a gymnasium, to
                    be located near the Academy, but it was never built.
            At first the building was called the "New Seminary," and next
                    the "Girls High School Seminary." On September 1, 1856, it was
                    opened to both males and females, and after that the school was called the
                    "Male and Female Academy" and the building was known as the
                    "Academy."
            The school year was divided into two sessions of twenty-one weeks each. The first
                    session began about September 1st, the second about February 1st. There were
                    three departments: the Primary, the Academic, and the Normal. An old catalogue
                    of 1857 gives the following courses of study:
            PRIMARY DEPARTMENT
            First Class
            Spelling, Reading, Writing, Primary Geography, slate exercises in Arithmetic, and
                    Mental Arithmetic.
            Second Class
            Spelling, Reading, Writing, Intermediate Geography, Written Arithmetic, History,
                    Grammer, Mental Arithmetic, Watts on the mind, slate exercise in Composition,
                    Drawing, Singing, First Lessons in Natural History, Natural Philosopy, and
                    Physiology.
            ACADEMICAL DEPARTMENT
            
               
                  First Year
               
               
                  Winter Session–
                  Summer Session–
               
               
                  Grammar (English)
                  Arithmetic (completed)
               
               
                  Arithmetic
                  Rhetoric (completed)
               
               
                  Biblical Antiquities
                  Church History
               
               
                  Rhetoric (Elementary)
                  Physiology
               
               
                  Second Year
               
               
                  Winter Session–
                  Summer Session–
               
               
                  Algebra
                  Algebra (continued)
               
               
                  Ancient History
                  Modern History
               
               
                  Meteorology
                  Chemistry
               
               
                  Natural History
                  Physical Geography
               
               
                  Third Year
               
               
                  Winter Session–
                  Summer Session–
               
               
                  Algebra (completed)
                  Geometry (completed)
               
               
                  Geometry
                  Mental Philosophy
               
               
                  Chemistry (completed)
                  Natural Philosophy
               
               
                  Geology
                  Science of Government
               
               
               
                  Fourth Year.
               
               
                  Winter Session–
                  Summer Session–
               
               
                  Natural Philosophy (completed)
                  Logic
               
               
                  Rhetoric
                  Evidences of Christianity
               
               
                  Astronomy
                  Biblical Literature
               
               
                  Moral Philosophy
                  Botany
               
            
            Exercises in Reading, Writing, Composition, Geography, Grammer, Mental
                    Arithmetic, and the study of the Bible were continued through the whole course.
                    French, German, Latin, and Greek were offered as electives.
            The tuition per session of twenty-one weeks was as follows: Primary Department:
                    first class, $7.50; second class, $10.00. Academical
                    Department: first and second classes, $16.00; third and fourth
                    classes, $20.00. Extra: music on piano, $20.00; use of
                    instrument, $20.00; painting and drawing, $10.00;
                    embroidery, $6.00. Board, light, and fuel per term, average,
                    $50.00.
            The Normal Department was for the training of teachers, and a model school was
                    conducted for the primary teachers.
            In 1857 H. F. Morton was principal of the Academy and had six assistants: Mrs.
                    Mary M. Morton, Miss Matilda E. Ellingwood, Miss Hattie W. French, Miss Martha
                    S. Paxton, Miss Eliza M. Paxton, and Mrs. M. W. Paxton, who was the special
                    teacher of music. The total attendance for 1856-57 was one hundred and
                    forty-three.
            On October 15, 1858, Mr. Morton sold the Academy to Messrs. Henderson &
                    Brown. The school year was then divided into three sessions of fourteen weeks
                    each, beginning in September. Bookkeeping was added to the course of study.
            On November 12, 1859, the Academy was sold to Brown and Sturges and continued
                    under this management until the end of the spring session in 1860, when it was
                    forced to close for lack of attendance and support.
            On February 24, 1862, a three months term was begun. During this term it was
                    called the "Morton School House."
            On August 31, 1863, the Academy was sold to Wm. Kurtz, acting for the school
                    trustees, and it became a part of the public school property. It was used for a
                    part of the intermediate and primary departments until the Irving School
                    Building was completed in January, 1871. In 1870 the Academy was sold to Seth
                    Ward, of 
                        Princeton
                    , who remodelled it and fitted it up for a residence. It is still
                    standing on the same site where it was erected in 1856.18
            
            
               
                  18
                        Laws of Indiana, 1548, p. 194; also Annual Report of 
                            Princeton
                         Public Schools by Harold. Barnes.
            
            
            VERMILLION ACADEMY
            
            The 
                        Vermillion
                     Academy was incorporated February 16, 1848. The trustees named in
                    the act of incorporation are William B. Hall, Charles S. Little, and Thomas C.
                    Sale. It was styled the 
                        Vermillion
                     Academy and was given the usual powers of corporations of its kind.
            Nothing more could be ascertained concerning this Academy. Not even the location
                    could be found, yet I presume that it was somewhere in 
                        Vermillion county
                    .19
            
            KNIGHTSTOWN ACADEMY
            
            The 
                        Knightstown
                     Academy was located at 
                        Knightstown
                    , 
                        Henry county
                    . It was organized in 1848 by Dr. Terrell, M. F. Edwards, and Rev.
                    J. Dale.
            The old building was a frame structure, 30x50 feet, had one door, six windows, a
                    small lobby at the entrance, and a cupola. A Mr. McClure, who died in 1853,
                    willed the Academy a library of about eight hundred volumes.
            The first teachers of the Academy were Miss Peas and Miss Bobbitt, both from 
                        New England
                    . They were succeeded by Mr. McClure and Fannie Langdon.
            The Academy was for females only. The course of study was rather irregular. There
                    was no prescribed course other than the English branches, but philosophy,
                    history, botany, Latin, and French were offered as electives. Some of the
                    text-books used were McGuffey's Readers, Ray's
                        Arithmetic, Kirkham's Grammar, Webster's Speller, and
                        
                  
                            Mitchell
                        's Geography.
            The Academy continued only five years. It was supplanted by the common schools in
                    1853 or '54. Since then the building has been used as a residence.20
            
            HADLEY ACADEMY
            
            The Hadley Academy was located at 
                        Richmond
                    . It was organized by Hiram Hadley in 1865, and opened in the
                    "Hicksite School House," which he had purchased of the
                    Friends. It was opened at the solicitation of the Friends who had known of the
                    success of Professor Hadley in the Whitewater Academy, from 
                  
                     19
                            Laws of Indiana, 1848, p. 390.
                  
                     20Letter of Supt. Roy C. Keever, 
                                Knightstown
                            , with data from an old citizen of 
                                Knightstown
                            .
               
                     1856-1863. He was assisted by Miss Eliza B.
                    Fulghum and Miss Abbie S. Fuller, graduates of the 
                        Westfield
                     Normal School of 
                        Massachusetts
                    , and Miss Helen Davis, a graduate of the Oswego Training School.
            Professor Hadley was succeeded by Professor Cyrus W. Hod-gin, who taught one year
                    then resigned to take a position as principal of the high school. Miss Fulghum
                    acted as principal for one year, then the Academy closed.21
            
            FARMERS ACADEMY
            
            The Farmers Academy was located about five miles south of 
                        Frankfort
                    , 
                        Clinton county
                    . It was founded by Newton S. Harriman and Milton B. Hopkins in
                    1858. A building 30x40 feet was built out of hewed logs on a beautiful wooded
                    lot with blue grass lawn and a pretty stream of water. It was furnished with
                    community desks and seats made especially for the Academy. The lot and building
                    were donated by Mr. Harriman. The library was the private property of Mr.
                    Hopkins.
            Mr. Hopkins was principal from 1858 to 1862. His two sons, Alex C. Hopkins and
                    John O. Hopkins assisted in conducting the school on Mondays, until Mr. Hopkins
                    returned from his Sunday's preaching tour. Mr. Hopkins was both the
                    educational and spiritual leader of the community. He was succeeded by U. B.
                    McKinney as principal from 1862-64, and by J. O. Cutte from 1864-65. Mr.
                    Harriman died about this time and the school was closed for lack of support, and
                    was used for several years by the public schools.
            The course of study embraced the common branches, some Latin, algebra, and
                    jurisprudence. There were usually about one hundred pupils in attendance,
                    ranging from the beginners in the primary grades to full-grown men. The Academy
                    was co-educational.22
            
            ROME ACADEMY
            
            The 
                        Rome
                     Academy was located at 
                        Rome
                    , 
                        Perry county
                    . In 1859 the county seat was removed from 
                        Rome
                     to 
                        Cannelton
                     and the legislature, by act approved December 22, 1858, transferred
                    the old 
                  
                     21 Elsie Marshall, History of 
                                    Richmond
                                 Schools, In Report of Public Schools of 
                                Richmond
                            , 1912.
                  
                     22
                            Documentary Journal, 1875, p. 153; also letter and
                            data, Mrs. Elizabeth Harriman, Palo Alto, Cal., widow of Newton S.
                            Harriman; letter and data, -J. J. Hopkins, Parsons, Kans., youngest son
                            of Milton B. Hopkins; letter of Mrs. Jennie Youngblood, 
                                Evanston
                            , Ill., daughter of Milton B. Hopkins.
               
                     courthouse, a two-story brick building, to
                    the town of 
                        Rome
                    , to be used for school purposes. A board of trustees was appointed,
                    consisting of John C. Shoemaker, Job Hatfield, and Elijah Huckaby, and
                    $2,000 was subscribed by the citizens, the interest on which should
                    be expended for repairs and equipment for the Academy.
            The first term was opened October, 1860, with N. V. Evans, A. M., principal, and
                    C. W. DeBruler assistant. The course of study was as follows: Primary grade,
                    orthography, reading, writing, mental arithmetic, and primary geography;
                    tuition, $6.00 per term. Second grade, arithmetic, grammar, ancient
                    and modern history, geography, analysis, and elocution; tuition,
                    $8.00 per term. Third grade, natural and mental philosophy, hygiene,
                    bookkeeping, algebra, and geology, tuition, $12.00 per term. Fourth
                    grade, higher mathematics, chemistry, rhetoric, composition, and languages,
                    tuition, $18.00 per term. Music and use of piano, $20.00;
                    use of piano, $4.00; vocal music, $2.00; drawing and
                    painting, $3.00. The school term was forty weeks. The first term
                    opened with about forty students, which was increased to about sixty.
            Professor Evans was succeeded in 1861 by Rev. Wm. M. Daily, A. M., formerly
                    president of Indiana University. He was succeeded in 1862 by Rev. Will S.
                    Hooper, assisted by his sister, Miss Susan Hooper. The attendance increased to
                    ninety students.
            In 1863 Professor James Snow and Miss Flint took charge of the Academy and taught
                    one year. The work was not a success financially and at the close of the year
                    the rent on the building and the interest on the endowment fund had to be added
                    to the tuition to make up the teachers' salaries.
            In 1864 the trustees leased the property to the Episcopal church. A Mr. Rafter
                    was appointed principal, and the name of the Academy was changed to St. Albans
                    Academy. This management failed the first year. The Baptists next tried it by
                    putting Rev. I. W. Brunner in charge as principal. They failed after two years
                    and turned the Academy over again to the trustees. After this the building was
                    used as a public hall, as a township school, and as a private school by various
                    teachers. So much of the $2,000 had been used for repairs and
                    mismanagement that in about 1901, when the walls of the building needed
                    extensive repairs, the trustees offered to deed the property and the remainder
                    of the endowment fund to the township. The offer was accepted by J. H. Lee,
                    trustee of Tobin township, arid in 1902, after a special act of the legislature,
                    the property was transferred to Tobin township. For a time  afterward it was used as a district school. Since
                    1910 it has been a certified high school.23
            
            OXFORD ACADEMY
            
            The 
                        Oxford
                     Academy was located at 
                  Oxford, Benton
                    county
               . The funds for the Academy were raised by private
                    subscriptions. The first board of directors elected March 15, 1866, consisted of
                    Leroy Templeton, Theophilus Stembel, Isaac Lewis, Robert M. Atkinson, Jasper N.
                    McConnell, and Samuel Phares. Leroy Temple-ton was elected president, D. R.
                    Lucas, secretary, and J. J. Rawl-ings, treasurer. The capital stock was fixed at
                    500 shares of $20 each.
            W. J. Templeton furnished the site for the building, and on May 17, 1866, the
                    contract was let to Isaac Lewis for its construction for $6,480. A
                    two-story brick building was erected and the Academy was opened September 13,
                    1867. Dr. Lynn, pastor of the 
                        Oxford
                     Presbyterian church, was the first principal. The attendance was
                    about seventy. Dr. Lynn was a rigid disciplinarian* became very
                    unpopular, and after about five months he was succeeded by Dr. A. W. Wells, who
                    remained until 1870, when he was succeeded by Rev. H. C. Neil, pastor of the 
                        Oxford
                     M. E. church. Rev. Neil was succeeded by Miss Hannah M. Wright, but
                    authorities differ as to the time. The History of
                                
                     Benton, Warren, Jasper
                   and 
                            Newton Counties
                        , p. 287, gives Rev. Neil's term 1870-73, while
                    McKnight, Progress of Education in 
                            Benton county
                        , p. 134, makes Miss Wright's term 1871-75. There
                    are other discrepncies betwen the two accounts as to the term of Miss Wright.
            Hannah M. Wright was a native of 
                        New Jersey
                    , and a graduate of the Collegiate Institute of 
                        Plighlands
                    , 
                        New Jersey
                    . For three years prior to 1871 she had taught in the district
                    schools of 
                        Benton county
                     and was therefore acquainted with a number of people there. She
                    rented the Academy Building for one year at $100, and opened her
                    first term, April 3, 1871, with sixty students. Miss Hattie Morgan and Miss
                    Eliza Anderson were assistants. The course of study included the common
                    branches, algebra, geometry, geology, chemistry, surveying, rhetoric,
                    literature, and Latin. The fall term of 1871 opened with one hundred and
                    eighty-eight students and soon increased to two hundred and twenty-five. The
                    tuition was from $3.00 to $10.00 per term of three months.
                    The public 
                  
                     23
                            History of 
                                    Warrick
                                , 
                                    Spencer
                                 and 
                                    Perry Counties
                                , p. 716; also letter and data, S. S. Connor, 
                                Rome
                            , Ind.
               
                     schools opened at this time and many
                    withdrew from the Academy. This lessened the income but the expenses remained
                    the same, and at the close of the term Miss Wright found that she had lost
                    $225.00. This did not discourage her for she opened the term of 1872
                    with an increase in the teaching force. Miss Sarah J. Bugbee was employed as a
                    regular teacher and Mrs. A. R. Owens as a teacher of music. On account of the
                    superior advantages afforded by the Academy, Mr. John Crosson, township trustee,
                    transferred all the pupils of that neighborhood to the Academy. He paid Miss
                    Wright $75.00 a month, and the other teachers, except the music
                    teacher, $40.00 a month, for the three months, and also paid the
                    Other running expenses.
            The entrance of the public school pupils of all ages, sizes, and stages of
                    advancement, precipitated at once a problem of classification and gradation.
                    Many of the older boys objected to pursuing the course of study as prescribed,
                    especially English grammar, but Miss Wright's will 'prevailed
                    and the Academy became a model school for the county.
            In 1873 
                        Oxford
                     was organized as a separate school corporation, and the school
                    board contracted with Miss Wright for the year 1873-74. Under this contract she
                    furnished the. building and teachers and received $710.00 for her
                    year's work.
            The public schools were organized in 1874, and Miss Hannah M. Wright, Sarah J.
                    Bugbee, E. H. Hazlett, and Thomas A. Baldwin were employed as teachers. The
                    Academy building was rented by the board for $250.00. The
                    stockholders desired to donate the building for the use of the town school but
                    the institution was in debt. The association was incorporated with Robert M.
                    Atkinson, president, and Jasper N. McConnell, secretary. On January 22, 1880,
                    the board of trustees of the Academy borrowed $2,000 of the 
                        Oxford
                     school board and gave a note payable in one year from date. The
                    note was not paid when due and action was brought against the trustees of the
                    Academy, and a? a 'sult it was sold. in May, 1882, to the 
                        Oxford
                     school board.
            The Academy building is still standing. The town of 
                        Oxford
                     has built two additions to it and it is now called the 
                        Oxford
                     School.24
            
            
               
                  24
                        History of 
                        Benton,
                                    Warren, Jasper
                      and 
                                Newton Counties
                            , p. 287; Mc Knight, Progress of Education
                            in 
                                Benton county
                            , p. 134.
            
            
            MARENGO ACADEMY
            
            The Marengo Academy was located at 
                        Marengo
                    , 
                        Crawford county
                    . It was organized in March, 1869, by Rev. J. M. Johnson, A.M., of
                    the class of 1851, Indiana University.
            The Academy was a two-story frame building 40x50 feet. On the first floor there
                    were an ante-room and a chapel, 40x40 feet. On the second floor there were an
                    ante-room, two recitation rooms on the east side, and one on the west. It
                    contained a library of a few hundred volumes and a number of globes for teaching
                    geography.
            Professor Johnson, assisted by various teachers, had charge of the Academy from
                    1869 to 1902, a period of thirty-three years. During this period more than a
                    thousand young men and women went out from the Academy and are today scattered
                    from the Atlantic to the Pacific, from the Great Lakes to
                    the Gulf, and are engaged in about all of the walks of life. The moral and
                    spiritual uplift to those students whose lives were moulded by this pioneer
                    preacher-teacher can not be estimated.
            The course of study included the common branches, algebra, geometry,
                    trigonometry, surveying, German, Latin, and Greek. In Latin and Greek, Harkness
                    was used as a text.
            The school term was thirteen weeks in length. School began at 8:30 a. m. and
                    closed at 4:00 p. m.
            After Rev. Johnson quit the Academy J. R. Weathers taught for a few years, and he
                    was followed by a number of other teachers who taught for a few each, then the
                    Academy was torn down.25
            
            CULVER MILITARY ACADEMY
            
            The Culver Military Academy is located on the northern shore of 
                        Lake Maxinkuckee
                    , in 
                        Marshall county
                    . It was founded in 1894 by Mr. Henry Harrison Culver, a wealthy
                    philanthropist of 
                        St. Louis
                    , whose ambition was to build the greatest preparatory school in 
                        America
                    . Mr. Culver died in 1897, before he had completed
                    his work, but the members of his family have given the school most liberal
                    support in order that it might stand as a monument to its founder.
            The Academy is beautifully situated in a park containing forty acres, thickly
                    covered with maples, oaks, and beeches and free from undergrowth. The campus and
                    grounds contain over three hundred 
                  
                     25 Letter and data by Rev. J. M. Johnson, Marengo,
                            Ind.; also letter and data by Supt. C. R. Maxam, Marengo, Ind.
               
                     acres, including parade grounds, athletic
                    field, tennis courts, and cinder track. There is also a half-mile track for
                    cavalry drill. Ten flowing wells, strong in medicinal properties, furnish an
                    abundance of good water.
            The building in which the cadets are quartered consists of five large fire-proof
                    barracks, with accommodations for four hundred and fifty boys. There are
                    twenty-six large, well-ventilated, well-lighted class rooms and lecture rooms,
                    fully equipped chemical, physical, and biological laboratories, drafting rooms,
                    and a library and reading room containing over 5,000 volumes.
            The main hall of the gymnasium is 70x140 feet. The roof is supported by steel
                    trusses which makes possible a large floor space unbroken by pillars or posts.
                    It is provided with the most modern equipment.
            The riding hall is a handsome building of brick and steel with a clear floor
                    space of over a quarter of an acre.
            The mess hall is the most complete and beautiful of its kind in the country. In
                    connection with it is a model kitchen, which is said to be one of the most
                    completely equipped in the world.
            The Academy hospital is a fire-proof structure fully equipped with the latest
                    sanitary appliances. An administration building is being erected which will add
                    greatly to the Academy.
            The Academy provides a one-year preparatory course, a four-year classical course,
                    a four-year scientific course, a four-year English and business course, and
                    courses in vocal and instrumental music. In addition to these courses a thorough
                    course in physical and military science is made an especial feature.
            The Academy is annually inspected by an officer of the general staff sent from
                    the War Department at 
                        Washington
                    .26
            
            CHAPTER II–THE PRESBYTERIAN ACADEMIES
            DELANEY ACADEMY
            
            The Delaney Academy was located at 
                  Newburgh, Warrick
                    county
               . It was organized in 1842 by the Indiana Presbytery,
                    through the influence of Rev. Benjamin Hall and others.
            On February 2, 1843, it was incorporated by Joseph Neely, A. M. Phelps, T. B.
                    McCormick, James C. Ritchey, David Newby, Benjamin Hall, and John Sawyer. By its
                    charter it had the right 
                  
                     26
                     Illustrated Catalog of the Culver
                                Military Academy, 1913.
               
                     to hold lands, not to exceed one hundred
                    and sixty acres, exclusive of building sites, and personal property, not to
                    exceed $25,000, exclusive of library and necessary apparatus. The
                    Academy was to be conducted upon Christian principles, but no student was to be
                    compelled to study theology or to adhere to any particular denomination.
            The buildings, grounds, and library and apparatus were the gift of A. M. Phelps.
                    Prior to its incorporation the school had been known as the Newburgh Cumberland
                    Presbyterian Academy, but was incorporated under the name of the Delaney Academy
                    in honor of Rev. Henry F. Delaney, an eminent minister of Morganfield, who
                    preached in various places in southern Indiana.
            At first, the academy was conducted in a frame building with two rooms and a
                    basement. The building was also used for a church by the different
                    denominations, and was furnished with seats, desks, a pulpit, and a bell. Two
                    teachers were employed. The basement served as a recitation room, a library, and
                    as a laboratory for the philosophical apparatus.
            In 1853, the academy was moved to the basement of the Cumberland Presbyterian
                    Church, where it remained for four years. In 1857, a two-story brick building
                    was erected and furnished by Mr. Phelps and others, upon a beautiful site
                    overlooking the Ohio River. A number of valuable lots were
                    also donated by Mr. Phelps for the support of the academy.
            Rev. R. Ewing was the first principal. The following year he was succeeded by
                    Rev. Calvin Butler, a Congregational preacher from Boonville, and a native of 
                        New England
                    . Rev. Azel Freeman, D. D., served as principal at different times
                    and was connected with the academy longer than any other teacher.
            The order and dates at which these men taught could not be definitely determined.
                    Rev. William B. Lambert, who was afterwards pastor of the Cumberland
                    Presbyterian Church of Evans-ville, probably followed Rev. Freeman. He was
                    followed by Rev. John D. Cowan, who later became a pastor in 
                        Illinois
                    ; by Prof. Groves S. Howard, later professor of mathematics in McGee
                    College; by Prof. O. H. Baker, and by Rev. C. A. Hampton, who was the last
                    principal.
            The course of study consisted of the common branches, the natural sciences,
                    rhetoric, mental and moral philosophy, logic, Latin, Greek, mathematics,
                    including arithmetic, algebra, geometry and astronomy, and a normal course for
                    the training of teachers.
            
            The academy was never endowed and had therefore to depend upon tuition fees for
                    its support. After the common schools were organized in 1867, the academy was
                    forced to close.27
            
            WAVELAND ACADEMY
            
            The 
                        Waveland
                     Academy was located at 
                  Waveland, Montgomery
                    county
               . It was incorporated January 16, 1849, by William G.
                    Allen, John Milligan, David Wills, James McCampbell, Harvey A. Adams, J. C.
                    Eastman, R. N. Allen, Charles K. Thompson, Samuel N. Evans, Abraham Geltner, D.
                    Fullenwider, Samuel D. Vance, Samuel D. Maxwell and Isaac Rice, Jr.
            It was styled the 
                        Waveland
                     Academy and the trustees were empowered to hold property for
                    educational purposes up to $50,000.00.
            It was organized and controlled by the 
                        Crawfordsville
                     Presbytery. It was not designed to run in competition with 
                        Wabash
                     College at 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , but its purpose was to give "better intellectual and
                    religious training to the pious youth for the gospel ministry," and to
                    prepare students for college.
            The committee chosen to select a site for the academy at first selected in 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , a site near 
                        Wabash
                     College, but later reconsidered the matter and chose 
                        Waveland
                     as a location and raised $1,200 for the erection of a
                    building.
            In 1859, a new charter was obtained which changed the name of the academy to the "
                        Waveland
                     Collegiate Institute." The new charter also changed the
                    course of study. Students who had not the time nor means to take a full college
                    course might, under the new charter, pursue a shorter course which comprised
                    most of the branches taught in the scientific courses of the colleges, and
                    obtain a degree.
            The following were among the members of the faculty: Rev. Samuel Taylor, Joseph
                    G. Wells, Rev. L. F. Leake, John W. Taylor, John W. Coyner, Henry S. Kritz, Mrs.
                    B. B. Gennett, Rev. D. R. Colnery, Rev. J. M. Stone, Mrs. C. E. Coulter, Miss
                    Maxwell, Miss Lowes, J. M. Naylor, A. M., 1873, Mrs. Irwin, Rev. John Creath,
                    Mrs. Virginia C. Cooper, Rice V. Hunter, J. C. Carson, C. M. Travis, Mr. G.
                    Rhodes, J. C. Steel, Mary A. Brush, Henry W. Fish, Elizabeth Bennett, Miles
                    Brown, James Logan, Anna E. Osborne and Miss Digby.
            
               
                  27
                  Laws of Indiana, 1843, p. 46; also
                            History of 
                                Warrick
                            , 
                                Spencer
                             and 
                                Perry Counties
                            , p. 116.
            
            
            The institute grew rapidly, and when the Civil War broke out it was in a
                    prosperous condition. A large per cent, of the male students enlisted in the
                    army. About this time the public high schools were organized and the attendance
                    began to drop off, and in 1879 it was abandoned.28
            
            FT. WAYNE ACADEMY
            
            The 
                        Ft. Wayne
                     Academy, commonly called the Presbyterian Academy, was founded by
                    the Presbyterian Church of 
                        Ft. Wayne
                     in 1852 or 1853. It was owned and controlled by a board of trustees
                    of the Presbyterian Church, but distinct from the church board of trustees. Rev.
                    Jonathan Edwards, D. D., LL. D., was pastor of the church at that time and was
                    the leader of the movement.
            The academy was located on the north side of 
                        Ft. Wayne
                     street between Calhoun and Clinton, on the site now occupied by the
                    old high school building. It was a one-story frame building with a hall, cloak
                    room, and two school rooms, separated by folding doors so that both could be
                    made into one large room. The rooms were supplied with very good desks and
                    seats, and were well lighted and ventilated.
            The first teachers of the academy were Henry McCormick, of 
                  Springfield, Ohio
               , and Jacob W. Lanins, both college graduates.
                    They were succeeded by George A. Irvin, a graduate of 
                        Hanover
                     College, who had been in charge of the Ladies' Seminary in
                            
                  Paris, Kentucky
               .
            The academy drew students from the Presbyterian families in the country as well
                    as in the city. Among the students were Dr. Gorrell, David Kirkpatrick and Piatt
                    Squires. Mr. Irvin conducted the academy successfully until 1857, when the
                    present school system was established, then it was merged into the city schools.
                    On July 10, 1867, the real property was transferred to the city school board.29
            
            WHITE WATER PRESBYTERIAN ACADEMY
            
            The White Water Presbyterian Academy was located at 
                        Dun-lapsville
                    , 
                        Union county
                    . It was founded by the Whitewater Presbytery 
                  
                     28
                            Laws of Indiana, 1849, p. 465; also letter of Otis B.
                            Hall, County Superintendent of 
                                Montgomery county
                            , Crawford sville.
                  
                     29 Letter of Dr. David M. Moffat, with data from
                            John H. Jacobs, 
                                Ft. Wayne
                            , Ind.
               
                     in 1853. The building is a two-story brick
                    with five rooms, and is surrounded by a beautiful playground of about two acres.
            The first principal of the academy was Rev. L. D. Potter. He was succeeded by
                    Rev. Russell B. Abbott, 1856-57. The academy was equipped with a fair library
                    and some apparatus. The course of study included the common branches, Greek,
                    Latin and some theology.
            The academy was co-educational, and was supported by tuition fees. It prospered
                    until the common school system was organized, then it ceased to be remunerative
                    and was sold to the school corporation of Liberty township. The building is
                    still standing, is in good repair, and is used for a township high school.30
            
            BLYTHE-WOOD ACADEMY
            
            The Blythe-Wood Academy was located at 
                        Petersburg
                    , 
                        Pike county
                    . It was founded by Rev. A. T. Hendricks in 1853, who was at that
                    time pastor of the Presbyterian church at 
                        Petersburg
                    .
            The public school system had not yet been introduced into the smaller villages
                    and rural districts, and they were still dependent upon the three or six months
                    schools run in the summer or winter by transient teachers. Mr. Hendricks saw the
                    need for better schools and in 1854, he erected rooms in connection with his
                    residence and fitted them up for school purposes. This school was styled the
                    Blythe-Wood Academy, and continued about fifteen years until the common schools
                    were introduced and made it no longer necessary.
            The course of instruction extended from the A, B, C's to the higher
                    branches of a liberal English education, including higher mathematics, Latin,
                    Greek and the Bible. Each pupil was required to provide a Bible for his own
                    desk. The government of the school was entirely paternal. The pupils were given
                    to understand that corporal punishment had no place in the school. The only
                    method of punishment was dismissal from school and that was a very rare
                        occurrence.31
            
            HOPEWELL ACADEMY
            
            The 
                        Hopewell
                     Academy was located three miles west of 
                        Franklin
                    , 
                        Johnson county
                    . Early in 1854, the enterprising citizens raised 
                  
                     30 Letter of Supt. Paul F. Showalter, Liberty,
                            Ind.
                  
                     31
                            History of 
                                    Pike
                                 and 
                                    Dubois Counties
                                , 367; letters from J. B. Hendricks, son of Rev. A.
                            T. Hendricks.
               
                     by popular subscription funds sufficient to
                    start the work, and in 1855 the academy was opened in the unfinished building.
            The academy building was a two-story brick built in the shape of a T. It had
                    three rooms above and three below. In front there was a large porch above and
                    below, supported by two large pillars. On top of the main part of the building
                    was a bell tower. The west room below was used for an assembly room, and the
                    east room for music. Above the assembly room was a large hall that was used by
                    the literary societies. The rooms were heated by long, open stoves. The wraps,
                    baskets and buckets were left in the hallways and in winter the lunches often
                    froze.
            The course of study consisted of reading, writing, philosophy, physiology,
                    English grammar, American history, algebra, geometry, Latin, arithmetic, higher
                    arithmetic, botany, science and literature.
            The school year was divided into three terms. The first began in September, the
                    second in December, and the third in March, ending the last of May or the first
                    of June.
            The academy was the only school in the county offering advanced courses of study,
                    and it was attended by students coming from different parts of the State. What
                    is now the Orphans' Home was once used as a boarding school.
            The first principal was Prof. T. P. Kelley, of 
                        Waveland
                    , a college graduate, who conducted a successful school for four
                    years. He was succeeded by Prof. Samuel D. Voris, of 
                        Vevay
                    , who taught two years, then came Rev. Quincy McKeihan, and after
                    him Prof. Joseph Shaw, a college trained man from 
                        Bellefountaine
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , who was principal from 1861 to 1865. Professor Johnson, a graduate
                    of 
                        Hanover
                     College, was probably principal during the 60's.
            A prospectus of the academy for 1862 shows the tuition fees as follows: Primary
                    Course, $3.00 per term; Common Schools, $4.00; Scientific
                    Course, $6.00; Classical Course, $8.00; extras–
                    piano, guitar, etc., $6;00; use of instruments, $2.00. The
                    term was twelve weeks.
            Samuel G. Blythe was principal in 1865-66; Robert Shaw, 1866-68; David Moore,
                    1868-73; Robert Sturgis, 1873-75; E. P. Cole, 1875-81; Mons Coulter, 1881-82;
                    and Minard Sturgis, 1882-83.
            A certificate of graduation from- 
                        Hopewell
                     Academy admitted the students to the sophomore year in 
                        Hanover
                     College. Both of these institutions were controlled by the
                    Presbyterian church and  the graduates of 
                        Hopewell
                     went to 
                        Hanover
                     College rather than to 
                        Franklin
                     College.
            The academy was supported by benevolences and tuition fees. In March, 1870, the
                    friends of the academy subscribed for capital stock in the academy to the amount
                    of $4,000.00, and it was incorporated. It was continued until 1884
                    when the high school was organized and the academy was abandoned.32
            
            BARNETT ACADEMY
            
            The Barnett Academy was located at 
                        Charlestown
                    , 
                        Clark county
                    . It was founded by Mr. Allen Barnett and other leading men of the
                    Presbyterian church, in 1860. It had its origin in the union of the "
                        Charlestown
                     Boys' School," and the "
                        Charlestown
                     Female Institute." Only the most meager accounts of these
                    schools could be found.
            Early in the 30's or before, the Masonic fraternity erected a two-story
                    brick building, the large upper room of which was used as a Masonic lodge hall.
            In 1831, a Mr. Baker conducted a school for boys in the basement of this
                    building. Nothing is known of the school except that he taught the boys to swim
                    in a large box that was built in the basement.
            In 1848, Prof. Z. B. Sturges opened the 
                        Charlestown
                     Boys' School in a large frame house in the eastern part of
                    the city. At about the same time Prof. George Reed was principal of the 
                        Charlestown
                     Female Institute, which was conducted in the brick building built
                    by the Masonic fraternity.
            Professor Reed was succeeded by John W. Lindley in 1856, who continued as
                    principal until 1860, when the two schools were combined in the brick building
                    under Prof. Z. B. Sturges, A.M., and it was afterwards known as the Barnett
                    Academy. It was probably about this time that the "L" was
                    added to the building for school purposes. At this time there were three
                    teachers in the faculty and the attendance was about 150. The graduating class
                    of 1861 consisted of seven members.
            The academy was controlled throughout its history by the Presbyterian church. A
                    clause in the charter of the academy provided that all principals and assistants
                    should belong to that church.
            Professor Sturges was succeeded by H. C. Donnell from 1864- 
                  
                     32
                            History of 
                                    Johnson County
                                , 249.
               
                     66 by J. S. McKee, in 1866-67; by James
                    Lindley, from 1867-1870, and by Robert Sturges, from 1870-80, when the academy
                    was closed.
            The course of study included Greek, Latin, natural philosophy, higher and
                    practical arithmetic, algebra, geometry and surveying. Since 1880 the building
                    has been used for a residence and hotel.33
            
            LEBANON PRESBYTERIAN ACADEMY
            
            The 
                        Lebanon
                     Presbyterian Academy was located at 
                  Lebanon, Boone
                    county
               . It was organized April 15, 1861, with William Zion,
                    president; D. H. Hamilton, secretary, and a board of trustees, consisting of
                    John Bell, David Caldwell, D. H. Hamilton and John Williams.
            The building was a three-story brick structure, about 50 x 60 feet, with four
                    class rooms each on the first and second floors. The third floor was used for a
                    chapel and dormitory. The building had gables over the shorter dimension on the
                    north and south, a belfry on the north end, halls running through the long way,
                    and entrances on the north and south.
            The academy was equipped with a library of fifty volumes, including
                    Shakespeare's complete works. There was also considerable apparatus for
                    use in physics and chemistry.
            The faculty in 1861 consisted of J. M. Coyner, A. M., principal, and teacher of
                    higher mathematics, history, natural, mental and moral science; Rev. C. K.
                    Thompson, A. M., languages; Miss Maggie F. Garrett, L. L., English branches and
                    natural science; Miss Estelle Morrow, M. L., instrumental music and drawing, and
                    two other members not known.
            In 1862, there were 180 pupils, of whom 100 were males and 80 fenales Among the
                    most distinguished of these are James A. Mount, ex-governor of Indiana; Mrs.
                    James A. Mount, whose acquaintance Mr. Mount made while a student there; Rev. A.
                    H. Dooley, a well-known Baptist minister; A. A. Zion, superintendent of the Belt
                    Railroad, 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; Senator E. T. Lane, 
                        Lebanon
                    , and Rev. Samuel Wilson, one time Presbyterian minister of one of
                    the leading churches of 
                        New York City
                    .
            In 1863, the enrollment reached 216, and there were six members in the faculty.
                    Tuition, board, fuel, washing and light were quoted 
                  
                     83
                            Documentary Journal; Superintendent's Heport;
                                School Journal, Locals, 1861; letter of Supt.
                            Lloyd B. Mann, 
                                Charlestown
                            ; letter and data of Mr. John Owen, 
                                Charlestown
                            .
               
                     at $160 per annum. The academy
                    was controlled by the Presbyterian church, and the use of tobacco was forbidden
                    upon the premises.
            Two courses of study were offered: the classic, a four years' course
                    which prepared students for the sophomore class in college, and the scientific,
                    a three years' course.
            Some of the text-books were: Robinson's Algebra, Geometry,
                        Trigonometry and Surveying; Qnackenbos' Rhetoric and Composition;
                        Willson's U. S. History; Crittenden's Bookkeeping;
                        Fitch's. Physical Geography; Clark's History of 
                            England
                        ; Smith's Elements of Astronomy; Mitchell's
                        Ancient Geography; Hitchcock's Physiology; Well's Natural
                        Philosophy; Gray's Botany; Haven's Mental Philosophy;
                        Wayland's Political Economy; Youman's Chemistry, and
                        Coppec's Logic.
            The school year was divided into three parts of thirteen weeks each. School began
                    at 8 A. M. and closed at 4 p. M.
            The academy continued for about ten years and after that the building was used by
                    the 
                        Lebanon
                     public schools. In 1866, the old building was torn down to make
                    place for the central building for the grades.34
            
            
               
                  34 Letter and data by Mr. S. N. Cragun, 
                            Lebanon
                        , Ind.
            
         
         
         
            Early Methodist Circuits in Indiana
            WILLIAM W. SWEET, Professor of
                    History, DePauw University
            A study of the beginning of Methodism in Indiana must necessarily start with the
                    coming of the first settlers. The settlement of Indiana did not in any real
                    sense begin until after the close of the 
                        Wayne
                     campaign, in 1794, but with the termination of the Indian wars,
                    settlers began to enter in considerable number, and by the year 1800 the
                    estimated civilized population of the new territory was 4,87s.1 A majority of the early settlers in Indiana came from across the
                        Ohio river from 
                  Kentucky, Virginia, Tennessee
                and 
                        North Carolina
                    , and a considerable proportion of them had been members of
                    Methodist societies in the older states. By no means, however, were the
                    Methodists the only denomination represented among the early settlers, but
                    Baptists, Presbyterians and Quakers also were numerous, though the Methodists
                    and the Baptists were the most numerous.2 Speaking of the
                    migration of settlers after the 
                        Wayne
                     campaign, into 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana, and its effect upon Methodist societies in 
                        Kentucky
                     and other places within the western country, one of the pioneer
                    preachers said: "The Indian wars having terminated, the people began to
                    scatter in every direction. New settlements were formed, and 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana began to settle rapidly, and the societies, many of
                    them were broken up, and we had not preachers sufficient to follow the tide of
                    emigration to their new settlements;"3 and as a
                    result of this situation there was a decrease of members in the Western
                    Conference from 1795 to 1801,4
            
            Previous to 1801 the Methodist conference in the western country was known as the 
                        Kentucky
                     conference, but in the year above. mentioned the name was changed
                    to the Western conference, which lasted until 1813 when it was divided into the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                    
                    
                  
                     1
                            Indiana Methodism, F. C. Holliday, 18.
                  
                     2
                            Indiana Miscellany, W. C. Smith, 43.
                  
                     3
                            Autobiography of Rev. William Burke, contained in
                            Finley's Sketches of Western Methodism,
                            22-92. Rev. William Burke was a Virginian by birth and began to preach
                            in that State in 1791. He came over the mountains into the western
                            country in 1792, and became a powerful factor in planting Methodism in
                                    
                        Kentucky,
                                    Ohio
                      and
                            Indiana.
                  
                     4 In 1797 there were 1,740 white members and 57
                            colored reported for the 
                                Kentucky
                             District. In 1799 the membership had decreased to 1,672
                            white and 65 colored, a loss of 68 white and a gain of 8 colored. Minutes of Conferences 1773-1828, 74, 86.
               
                     conferences. In the year 1801 
                        Kentucky
                     District of the Western conference contained nine circuits, taking
                    in the settlements of 
                        Kentucky
                     and the present State of 
                        Ohio
                    . These circuits were manned by fourteen preachers and one Presiding
                    Elder, the redoubtable William McKendree. The names of the circuits were the
                    Scioto and Miami, in the 
                        Ohio
                     country, and Hinkstone and 
                  Lexington, Danville
               , Salt River and 
                        Shelby
                    , 
                        Cumberland
                    , Green River, Holston and Russell, and New
                    River in 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                    .5 None of these circuits took in Indiana
                    territory, and there were no official Methodist societies in Indiana at that
                    early date, but there were undoubtedly Methodist services conducted and
                    Methodist preaching by local preachers who came into the Indiana country among
                    the first settlerr.
            In the year 1800 a great revival began, which spread all over the western
                    country, resulting in more than doubling the membership of the Methodist
                    societies, in the Western conference, and also greatly increasing the number of
                    both local and traveling preachers. This remarkable revival made its appearance
                    in 
                        Kentucky
                     in the spring of 1801, at a Quarterly meeting held on the Hinkston
                    circuit. This meeting lasted from Friday until Monday morning, and preaching and
                    exhortations were almost continuous during that time. One of the preachers at
                    that meeting has told us that there "was a great trembling among the
                    dry bones. Great numbers fell to the ground and cried for mercy, old and
                    young." The next week another meeting was conducted on the 
                        Lexington
                     circuit, in which "every local preacher and exhorter was
                    employed," holding small meetings at various places on the circuit, and
                    on Sunday morning all the people came together for a great meeting, and as they
                    came they could be heard "singing and shouting on the road."
                    With this beginning the work and enthusiasm spread into all the circuits of the
                    Western conference, and Methodist work was extended into many of the new
                        settlements.6 The first reliable record of Methodist
                    preaching in Indiana was in 1801, at a village called Springville, located in
                    what was then known as Clark's Grant, or the Grant. Two local
                    preachers, Samuel Parker and Edward Tal-bott crossed the Ohio
                    river and conducted a two days' meeting at the place
                    mentioned above.7 This was evidently a part of the great
                    revival movement then under way in the western country.
            
               
                        5
                        Minutes of Conference.
                    
               
                  6
                        "Burke's Autobiography, 75-79.
               
                  7 From a letter of Rev. George K. Hester, found in
                        Holliday's Indiana Methodism, 37.
            
            
            To William McKendree, the Presiding Elder of the 
                        Kentucky
                     District covering what has since become three great States, belongs
                    the honor of establishing the first official Methodist class ever formed in
                    Indiana. In the summer of 1802 Andrew Mitchell took William McKendree across the
                        Ohio river in a canoe, and on this trip two classes
                    were formed in what is now 
                        Clark county
                    , one at 
                        Charlestown
                     and the other at a place then called New Chappie.8 In the spring of 1803 Benjamin Lakin, then traveling the Salt
                        River circuit in 
                        Kentucky
                    , crossed the Ohio river and preached in the
                    woods, near the present town of 
                        Charlestown
                    , as soon as the weather permitted, and made arrangements to include
                    that neighborhood, and also the Robertson's neighborhood, which was
                    five miles north of 
                        Charlestown
                    ,9 among his regular preaching places, and thus
                    Indiana, through the zeal of this pioneer circuit rider, came to have a
                    permanent place upon the Methodist map.
            At the session of the Western conference in 1805 Peter Cartwright was appointed
                    as junior preacher with Benjamin Lakin on the Salt River
                    and 
                        Shelby
                     circuit and he states in his autobiography that "Brother
                    Benjamin Lakin and himself crossed the Ohio river and
                    preached at Brothers Robinson's and Prather's. In this Grant
                    we had two classes and splendid revivals of religion."10
            
            While Methodist preaching was being introduced in Clark's Grant, in the
                    manner above described, others were introducing Methodist preaching in other
                    sections of the new territory. In 1805 a local preacher, Hugh Cull by name,
                    settled in the Whitewater country in the southeastern section of the Territory
                    and established regular preaching and, soon after, this section was included in
                    a circuit known as the Whitewater circuit, though most of the circuit lay in 
                        Ohio
                    .11 This circuit appears on the minutes in 1808
                    for the first time, with Joseph Williams as the preacher, and at the end of the
                    first year 165 white members were reported and one colored.12
            
            
               
                  8 From a letter of I. N. Britton, a life-long friend
                        of Andrew Mitchell. The letter among the records of the Methodist Church at 
                            Charlestown
                        , Ind.
               
                  9 From the letter of Rev. George K. Hester, as above.
                        The Hester family was among the first to settle in Clark's Grant,
                        and from the first they became identified with Indiana Methodism. The family
                        has furnished many Methodist preachers and preachers' wives. With
                        possibly one or two short gaps, there has been a Hester on the roll of the
                        Indiana Conference for almost a century.
               
                  10
                        Peter Cartwright's Autobiography, 167. Peter
                        Cartwright was probably the most famous circuit rider in the middle west.
                        His autobiography reads like a romance.
               
                  11
                        Indiana Miscellany, W. C. Smith, 49.
               
                  12
                        Minutes of Conferences 1773-1828, vol. I., 159.
            
            
            METHODIST CIRCUITS IN INDIANA IN 1811
            The first entire circuit in the Territory of Indiana was known as the Silver
                    Creek circuit and was organized in 1807 with Moses Ashworth as the circuit
                    rider. This region had, as stated above, been included within the Salt
                        River and 
                        Shelby
                     circuit, most of that circuit lying in 
                        Kentucky
                    . With the organization of this circuit, the Silver Creek, Indiana
                    Methodism starts on its separate career. The preacher, Moses Ashworth, closed
                    his first year with a camp meeting, held in the neighborhood of "Father
                    Robertson's," a few miles from the present site of 
                        Charlestown
                    . This was probably the first camp meeting held in Indiana.13 In the year 1808 a new district was added to the Western
                    conference, and it received the name Indiana District, which is the first time
                    the name Indiana appears in Methodist history.14 This new
                    district had six circuits, namely, 
                        Illinois
                    , which included all the settlements at that time in that great
                    territory; 
                        Missouri
                    , another state-wide circuit; Mara-mack, Cold Water, Whitewater and
                    Silver Creek, the last two being the only circuits in Indiana. Both Silver Creek
                    and Whitewater circuits appear in the minutes for the first time in 1808.
            In the year 1810 another Indiana circuit made its appearance for the first time
                    in the minutes for that year. This circuit was none other than 
                        Vincennes
                    , and the preacher regularly appointed to this new circuit was
                    William Winas.15 The story is told that one of the first
                    Methodist services held in the town of 
                        Vincennes
                     was conducted on a Sunday night at the fort. The congregation was
                    made up of some government officials, a few English settlers, two or three
                    Indians and the governor of the Territory, William Henry Harrison. There were
                    only a few tallow candles to furnish light for the service, and one of these was
                    kindly held by the governor to enable the young circuit rider to read his text
                    and line out the hymn.16 Belonging to the 
                        Vincennes
                     circuit was a neighborhood known as the Busroe settlement, which
                    was visited by Peter Cart-wright in 1808, and was by him organized into a
                    Methodist society, in the following manner, which we will allow him to relate in
                    his own way:
            "I will here state a case which occurred at an early date in the 
                  
                     13 From letter of Rev. George K. Hester, as above.
                  
                     14
                            Minutes, 171.
                  
                     15
                     Ibid, 184; also
                            Holliday's Indiana Methodism, 28.
                  
                     16"Holliday, 28-29. Peter Cartwright says
                            the second full circuit In the State of Indiana was the 
                                Vincennes
                             circuit, -which he himself founded in the manner described
                            on the following page. Autobiography, 167.
               
                     State of Indiana, in a settlement called
                    Busroe. Many of the early emigrants to that settlement were Methodists, Baptists
                    and Cumberland Presbyterians. The Shaker priests, all apostates from the Baptist
                    and Cumberland Presbyterians, went over among them. Many of them I was
                    personally acquainted with and had given them letters when they removed from 
                        Kentucky
                     to that new country.
            "There was then no Methodist circuit-preachers in that region. There was
                    an old brother, Collins, a local preacher, who withstood the Shakers, and in
                    private combat was a full match for any of them; but he was not eloquent in
                    debate, and hence the Shaker priests overcame my old brother, and by scores
                    swept members of different churches away from their steadfastness into the muddy
                    pools of Shakerism. The few who remained steadfast, sent to 
                        Kentucky
                     for me, praying me to come over and help them. I sent an
                    appointment with an invitation to meet any or all of the Shaker priests in
                    public debate; but instead of meeting me they appointed a meeting in opposition,
                    and warned the believers, as they called them, to keep away from my meeting; but
                    from our former acquaintance and intimate friendship, many of them came to hear
                    me. I preached to vast crowds for about three hours, and I verily believe God
                    helped me. The very foundation of every Shaker present was shaken from under
                    him. They then besought me to go to the Shaker meeting that night. I went, and
                    when I got there, we had a great crowd. I proposed to them to have a debate and
                    they dared not refuse. The terms were these: A local preacher I had with me was
                    to open the debate, then one or all of their preachers, if they chose, were to
                    follow, and I was to bring up the rear. To this agreement the Shakers, however,
                    failed to comply, after the debate was under way, and one of them, a Mr. Gill,
                    called all the Shakers present to disperse, but the sturdy circuit rider, Peter
                    Cartwright, then arose and called upon them to remain and succeeded in holding a
                    considerable number of them. He says: 'When I arose to reply I felt a
                    sense of the approbation of God, and that he would give me success. I addressed
                    the multitude about three hours and, when I closed the argument, I opened the
                    doors of the church and invited all that would renounce Shakerism to come and
                    give me their hand. Forty-seven came forward, and then and there openly
                    renounced the dreadful delusion. The next day I followed those that fled; and
                    the next day I went from cabin to cabin, taking the names of those that returned
                    to the solid foundation of truth, and my number rose to eighty-seven. I then
                    organized them into a regular society and then next fall had a preacher sent  them; and perhaps this victory may be
                    considered among the first fruits of Methodism in that part of the new
                    country.' "17
            
            By 1812 two more new circuits had been added, the Lawrence-burg circuit in the
                    southeastern corner of the Territory, between the Whitewater and the Silver
                    Creek circuits, and the Patoka circuit in the southwestern corner, south of the 
                        Vincennes
                     circuit and to the west of the Silver Creek. In 1816 another new
                    circuit appears in the minutes for the first time, which was known as the
                        Blue River. The total membership of these six earliest
                    Indiana circuits, in the year 1816, the year of Indiana's admission to
                    the Union, was 1,877.18 I have attempted to draw a map of
                    these early Indiana circuits, though I have found it extremely difficult to fix
                    any definite boundaries. The early circuit rider was not confined to any
                    definite limits, but went where there was a call or need of his services.
                    Besides regular preaching places he had many irregular ones, the cabins of the
                    scattered settlers, and no company was too small for him to preach to.
            The men who manned these early Indiana circuits from the founding of the first
                    one in 1807 to 1816, were as follows (and I give their names because I feel that
                    from the standpoint of Indiana history they are worthy to be recorded): The
                    first regularly assigned preachers to Indiana circuits were Moses Ashworth to
                    the Silver Creek circuit and Joseph Williams to the Whitewater, as has already
                    been stated. From 1808 to 1816 the following men served these two circuits:
            Silver Creek–1809, Josiah Crawford; 1810, Sela Paine; 1811, Isaac
                    Lindsey; 1812, Wiliam McMehan; 1813, Thomas Nelson; 1814, Charles Harrison;
                    1815, Shadrach Ruark and in 1816, Joseph Kinkaid. The men who manned the
                    Whitewater circuit after Joseph Williams to 1816 were: 1809, Hector Sanford and
                    Moses Crume; 1810, Thomas Nelson and Samuel H. Thompson; 1811, Moses Crume;
                    1812, Robert W. Finley; 1813, John Strange; 1814, David Sharp; 1815, William
                    Hunt; 1816, Daniel Fraley. The 
                        Vincennes
                     circuit from 1810 to 1816 was manned by William Winans in 1810; in
                    1811 Thomas Stilwell was the circuit preacher; Jacob 
                  
                     17
                            Peter Cartwright's Autobiography, 53-55. The
                            Shakers were a communistic sect officially known as "The United
                            Society of Believers in Christ's Second Coming." The
                            Shakers did not recognize marriage as a Christian institution and
                            considered it less perfect than the celibate state. The Shakers were
                            very active in 
                        Kentucky, Ohio
                      and Indiana for a number of years after 1800.
                            Shaker communities were founded in southern Indiana, among them this
                            community at Busroe on the 
                                Wabash
                            . The circuit riders were deadly foes to this delusion.
                  
                     18
                            Minutes, vol. I., 211, 212, 279-280, 282-283.
               
                    
                    
                  METHODIST CIRCUITS IN INDIANA IN 1811.
               
                    
                  METHODIST CIRCUITS IN INDIANA IN 1816
                  1. White Water Circuit.
                  2. 
                                Lawrenceburg
                             Circuit.
                  3. Silver Creek Circuit.
                  4. Blue River Circuit.
                  5. Patoka Circuit.
                  6. 
                                Vincennes
                             Circuit.
               
                     Turman succeeded in 1812; Richard Richards,
                    1813; 1814, Zachariah Witten; 1815, John Schrader, and in 1816, Thomas Davis.
                    The Patoka circuit, founded in 1811, was served in 1812 by Benjamin Edge; in
                    1813 and 1814 Patoka circuit does not appear in the minutes; in 1815 John
                    Scripps served the circuit, and in 1816, Thomas King. The 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     circuit, founded the same year as the Patoka, was served its first
                    year, which was 1812, by Walter Griffith; in 1813, by William Dixon; in 1814, by
                    Moses Crume; in 1815, by John Strange, and in 1816, by David Sharp. In 1816, the
                    first year of the Blue River circuit, it was served by John
                    Shrader. Among the Presiding Elders who oversaw Indiana circuits during these
                    early years were William Burke, from whose autobiography we have quoted, John
                    Sale, Samuel Parker, Soloman Langdon, Learner Blackman, James Axley, James Ward,
                    Peter Cartwright, Charles Holliday and Jesse Walker.19
            
            Among these names are some which will live as long as the Methodist church lives,
                    and some which are worthy to have a permanent place in Indiana history. The
                    Jesuit Fathers, in the days of exploration on this continent, undertook no
                    greater task than the task which was undertaken by these rude, but earnest and
                    upright frontier preachers, who had a vision of what the western country might
                    become, and helped as few others helped to work out that vision.
            At the beginning of Indiana Methodism there were, of course, no meeting-houses,
                    but in the winter time the cabins of the settlers were the temples, and in the
                    spring, just as soon as it became warm enough, the people worshipped out under
                    the trees. It was not long, however, before log meeting-houses began to be
                    erected, for there was plenty of material, and a Methodist revival always
                    resulted in providing willing hands to build the desired house of worship.
                    During Moses Ashworth's first year on the Silver Creek circuit three
                    meeting-houses were erected, and each succeeding year saw other rude log
                    structures rise in the wilderness. In these log meeting-houses there were none
                    of the comforts known to present-day churches. The roofs were made of clapboards
                    held on by weight poles, the floors were made of puncheons, the chimneys of
                    sticks and clay, and the seats were split logs, hewn smoothly with an ax, while
                    the pulpits were made of clapboards smoothed nicely with a drawing knife.20
            
            
               
                  19
                  Minutes, vol. I. (1773-1828),
                        152-287.
               
                  20
                        Indiana Miscellany, "W. C. Smith, 62-70.
            
            
            Practically all of the early circuit riders, traveling in the new country, were
                    single men, for Bishop Asbury discouraged marriage among his preachers, knowing
                    the increased hardships marriage would bring to the preachers themselves and
                    especially to their wives. For this reason many of the pioneer preachers ceased
                    to travel, as it was called, while they were still comparatively young men,
                    simply because they married, and were advised to "locate,"
                    that is, they settled down in a certain locality and ceased to travel a circuit,
                    though they did not cease to be preachers. At this early time sixty-four to
                    eighty dollars was the amount allowed a traveling preacher, and he must provide
                    his own horse and equipment, such as saddle and saddle-bags. William Burke, who
                    was Presiding Elder'of the Green River district in
                    1810, which included the Silver Creek circuit, was the first married preacher in
                    the west who continued to travel after his marriage. And, he says, "I
                    met with every discouragement that could be thrown in my way. People and
                    preachers said, 'you had better locate.' I shared equally with
                    the single men when they were on the circuit with me, in order to keep peace.
                    * * * One winter I had to use a borrowed
                    blanket instead of a cloak or overcoat."21
            
            It is interesting to note that all of the Indiana circuits were named after
                    streams, either rivers or creeks, except the 
                        Vincennes
                     and 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     circuits. The reason for this is, of course, obvious. The early
                    settlements were along the rivers and creeks, and these were the natural
                    highways of the country, and so, very naturally, the early circuits derived
                    their names from some river or creek along which the settlements were located.
                    There were in those days few towns or postoffices after which circuits might be
                    named, and when there were such towns the circuits soon came to bear their
                    names, rather than that of rivers or creeks, as, for instance, the 
                        Vincennes
                     and 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     circuits. This naming of circuits after streams was not peculiar to
                    Indiana, but the same was true in all the western country.
            How were these great circuits manned, by many times one, and seldom more than
                    two, circuit riders? When we look at those three earliest Indiana circuits, it
                    would seem almost humanly impossible for one man to spread himself over so much
                    territory and be at all effective in his work. And yet that seemingly impossible
                    task was accomplished and many times whole communities stirred in a remarkable
                    manner. The early circuits in Indiana were six or eight 
                  
                     21
                            Burke's Autobiography, 91.
               
                     week circuits, that is, it took the circuit
                    rider from six to eight weeks to make the round of his various preaching- places
                    once. That meant that there was preaching at
                    the regular preacning places not more than once in six or eight weeks. At least
                    four times yearly came the quarterly meetings on every circuit, and on these
                    occasions the presiding elder would work a week or more, and sometimes make the
                    whole round with the circuit preacher. And these were the great meetings to
                    which both preacher and people looked forward for weeks and months ahead. These
                    were the times when the two and three day meetings were held, the usual way
                    being, the meeting beginning on Saturday afternoon and lasting through, with
                    little intermission until Monday morning. Many of the early circuit riders had
                    no homes, but lived in the cabins of the settlers or in the saddle. It is no
                    wonder that the Methodist preacher got a reputation as a horse trader, and as a
                    judge of good horse flesh, for the ease and comfort in which he traveled his
                    circuit depended upon the kind of horse he rode, and the preacher and his
                    faithful horse were necessarily constant companions.
         
         
         
            Indiana's Growth 1812-1820
            By WALDO F. MITCHELL, Instructor in
                    History and Economics, 
                        Iowa
                     State Teachers' College
            WAR ON THE
                        FRONTIER
            
            June 19, 1812, Congress declared war against 
                        Great Britain
                    . August 16, William Hull surrendered 
                        Detroit
                    . The preceding day, the Pottawattomies, who had been in the
                    neighborhood of 
                  Fort Dearborn,
                            Chicago
               , treacherously
                    slew the garrison, together with the women and children inmates of that post, as
                    the garrison was vacating the fort to retreat to 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . The Pottawattomies, Kickapoos, Ottawas, Shawnees and other less
                    powerful tribes, aided by the British, planned a general attack upon the
                    frontier settlements in Indiana. The hostile savages began to concentrate about 
                        Fort Wayne
                     in August, 1812, attacking isolated settlements.1 A scalping party of Shawnees destroyed the "Pigeon
                    Roost" settlement, about twenty-five miles north of 
                        Jeffersonville
                    .2 Other Indians at the same time made a savage
                    attack upon 
                        Fort Harrison
                     (
                        Terre Haute
                    ).3
            
            The isolated settlements were abandoned and the retreating settlers joined with
                    others in the more thickly settled regions in erecting block houses. Back from
                    the frontier line, immigration and settlement continued. The southern part of
                    the Twelve Mile Tract (purchase of 1809, just west of the Greenville Treaty
                    line) filled up rapidly with settlers.4 Just west of the
                    Second Principal Meridian squatters and new settlers began to take out land
                    titles. Other settlers, instead of moving into the interior, as had been the
                    case before the war, broke into the wilderness along Little Pigeon creek
                    (boundary between 
                        Warrick
                     and 
                        Spencer
                     counties) where there were only scattered settlements.5 This same year, 1812, Hugh McGary made the first permanent
                    settlement at the site of 
                        Evansville
                    . The reaction which began along the dangerous frontier together
                    with immigration into the west, began to concentrate settlements more 
                  
                     1 Slocum, C. B., 
                                
                                    Maumee River Basin
                                
                            , 274.
                  
                     2 Dunn, J. P., True Indian
                            Stories.
                  
                  
                     3
                     Fort Harrison 1812-1912, p. 17.
                  
                     4
                            Nile's Register, July 4, 1818, p. 318.
                  
                     5
                     
                        
                           Warrick, Spencer
                        , and 
                                    Perry Counties
                                
                     , (1885) pp. 21, 587.
               
                     in the older and poorer
                    regions–regions which had been little settled.8
            
            Since 1807 the lands on sale in Indiana had been offered at three land offices,
                    namely: 
                        Cincinnati
                    , established in 1800; it offered the lands between the
                        Miami river and the Greenville Treaty Line; 
                        Vincennes
                    , established in 1804; it offered lands west of the Second Principal
                    Meridian and included a small part of 
                        Illinois
                    ; and Jef-fersonville, established in 1807, and it offered lands
                    between the other two. The lands were sold in minimum tracts of 160 acres each,
                    at a minimum price of $2.00 an acre.7 Supposing
                    that for each 160-acre tract sold at 
                        Vincennes
                     in 1812, one family settled in the 
                        Vincennes
                     district, then about twenty-five families would have settled in the
                    district; and about one hundred eighty-four would have settled in the 
                        Jeffersonville
                     district. In 1811 the number would have been somewhat greater.
            January 22, 1813, occurred the massacre of the greater part of
                    Harrison's force at the River Raisin, which force was under the command
                    of Gen. James Winchester. Although this news seems not to have reached the
                    capital at 
                        Vincennes
                     by February 2, when acting Governor John Gibson addressed the
                    legislature, yet he fully understood the dangers on the frontier. He referred to
                    the dangers as follows:
            "At your last assemblage (November 11, 1811), our political horizon
                    seemed clear, our infant territory bid fair for rapid and rising grandeur; our
                    population was highly flattering; our citizens were becoming prosperous and
                    happy and security dwelt everywhere, even on our frontiers. But, alas! the scene
                    has changed… The aborigines, our former neighbors and friends, have
                    become our inveterate foes. They have drawn the scalping knife and raised the
                    tomahawk, and shouts of savage fury are heard at our thresholds. Our frontiers
                    are now wiles, and our inner settlements have become frontiers."
            CAPITAL MOVED TO CORYDON
            
            The danger had become so threatening by February 11, 1813, that on this date the
                    House of Representatives of Indiana Territory voted the following preamble and
                    resolution:
            "Whereas, the hostile disposition of the Indians, and the danger to
                    which the village of 
                        Vincennes
                     is thereby subjected, and for the preservation of the public acts,
                    and the records of the territory in this, our perilous situation, make it
                    necessary that the seat of government of the 
                  
                     6
                            Vanderburg County (1889) p. 94.
                  
                     7 Treat, P. J., National Land
                            System.
                  
               
                     Territory should be removed to a place
                    where the archives of the State and the claims of individuals should not be
                    endangered." 8
            
            The massacre on the River Raisin may have been the deciding factor in the removal
                    of the capital, for the news of it was published in the 
                        Vincennes
                    
                    Western Sun, February 13. There was real danger at 
                        Vincennes
                    , for a few days after the House voted to remove the government away
                    from that place, occurred this item in the Western Sun:
            
            "It again becomes our duty to record the melancholy news of the murder
                    of three more of our fellow citizens by the Indians. … In the course
                    of the present week there has not been less than IS or 20 horses stolen from the
                    neighborhood."
            IMMIGRATION IN 1813
            In spite of the continued Indian hostility and the unfortunate military failures
                    on the northern frontier, the settlements in 1813 increased. Although in 
                        Ohio
                     during this year the land sales very materially
                    decreased,' in Indiana they increased–about 57 per cent. at 
                        Jeffersonville
                     over the preceding year, and at 
                        Vincennes
                     about 35 per cent. At 
                        Jeffersonville
                     the sales were the greatest they had ever been, and at 
                        Vincennes
                     greater than in any previous year except in 1807, when the period
                    of extensive sales in Indiana had begun. Purchases continued to be made where
                    there was little danger from Indian attacks. The new town of Rising Sun, in 
                        Dearborn county
                     (in 
                        Ohio county
                     since 1844), was laid out by a planter who had come from 
                        Maryland
                     a few years previously.9 On March 2, 1813, the
                    first tree was cleared away for the building of the town of 
                        New Albany
                    .10 Farther west great changes were taking
                    place. 
                        Knox county
                     was the largest county in the Territory, and until 1807 had been
                    the most populous part of the Territory. Ever since Indiana had been erected
                    into a Territory (1800) and even before, immigrants had been settling
                    occasionally in the 
                        Wabash
                     basin, above and below White river. Others had
                    made clearings in the basins of the two White rivers. Still
                    others had settled along the old "Buffalo Trace," which the
                    buffalo had followed from the 
                        Illinois
                     prairies to the Blue Grass" region of 
                        Kentucky
                    , crossing the 
                        Ohio
                     at the Falls, and the 
                        Wabash
                     near 
                        Vincennes
                    . Settlers now followed this path and settled farther and farther
                        
                  
                     8
                            
                                Vincennes
                            , Western Sun, March 20, 1813.
                  
                     9
                            
                        
                           Dearborn, Ohio
                        , & 
                                    Switzerland Counties
                                
                      (1885) p. 356.
                  
                     10
                     Ind. Hist. Disc. 1, No. 4, p.
                            6. (Wis. Hist. Lib.)
               
                    
                    
                     west. After the passage of the Indenture
                    Act of 1805, for the "introduction of Negroes and Mulattoes into this
                        Territory,"11 and the opening up in the same
                    year of more lands for settlement, the number of settlers along the
                    "Buffalo Trace," and along the lower White
                    rivers, increased. By 1813 these settlements had increased enough
                    back from the border, largely because Indian hostilities prevented settlements
                    on the border, that the legislature felt justified in erecting two new counties,
                    out of the southern part of 
                        Knox county
                     (see map). 
                        Warrick county
                     was to contain all west of the Principal Meridian and south of the
                    line between townships three and four south (this line is the northern boundary
                    of 
                        Spencer county
                    ). 
                        Gibson county
                     was just north of 
                        Warrick county
                    . (See map.)12
            
            COMMERECE AND NAVIGATION
            
            Commerce and navigation began to assume greater importance. Steam had just begun
                    to be used on the 
                        Ohio
                    , the first steamboat descending from 
                        Pittsburgh
                     in 1811. But for many years the farmers used flatboats mostly in
                    marketing their flour, corn, whisky, and meats at 
                        New Orleans
                    . They would return either overland or would pole keel boats up the
                        rivers.13
            
            In order to facilitate navigation on Whitewater river, the
                    legislature declared, in 1813, that that river should be navigable from the 
                        Ohio
                     state line up the river and up its west branch to the three forks.
                    The county courts in the various counties through which the river ran were
                    instructed to lay the river off into divisions and to appoint an overseer over
                    each division. These overseers were to call out the men to clear the river for
                    navigation, just as they were called out to work the roads.14
            
            This legislature also passed an act regulating exportation of meat products and
                    flour. It provided for the inspection of flour, beef and pork, that were packed
                    for shipment. A barrel of beef or pork should contain 200 pounds, and should be
                    branded, "Indiana Territory, Mess Beef," "Prime
                    Beef," "Mess Pork," or "Prime
                    Pork," according as it was first or second grade. A barrel of flour
                    should contain 196 pounds, and should be branded, "superfine,"
                    "fine," or "middlings," according as it was
                    first, second, or third quality.15
            
            
               
                  11 Dunn, J. P., Indiana, p. 329.
               
                  12
                        Territorial Laws, 1813, p. 67.
               
                  13 Smith, W. H., Indiana, II, 644.
               
                  14
                  Territorial Laws, 1813,. p. 4.
               
                  15
                  Territorial Laws, 1813, p.
                    58.
            
            
            Later in the year 1813 the legislature cut off the northern part of 
                        Harrison county
                     and erected a new county–Washington. (See map.) Thus in
                    one year of frontier hostilities three new counties were erected in Indiana,
                    making the total number ten.
            HOSTILITIES LESSEN IN 1814
            September 12, 1813, Commodore O. H. Perry won his famous victory on
                        Lake Erie, and a little later Harrison defeated the
                    British at the River Thames in 
                        Canada
                    . In this battle Tecumtha was killed. The war was now transferred to
                    the Niagara frontier. On the eastern border in Indiana, along the upper branches
                    of the Whitewater and East White rivers, the settlers began
                    to feel secure about the middle of the year 1814. The war had not abated, so
                    this cessation of Indian hostilities on the eastern frontier may have been due
                    to the treaty of peace and alliance which Lewis Cass, General Harrison and
                    Governor Shelby negotiated with the 
                        Wyandot
                    , 
                        Delaware
                    , Shawnee, Pottawattomie and Kickapoo tribes, July 22, 1814.16 This treaty was made in pursuance of a letter from the
                    War Department, instructing those officers to ally the Indians to the 
                        United States
                     against 
                        Great Britain
                    . It was signed by 112 Indians, including the three chiefs of the 
                        Wyandot
                    , 
                        Delaware
                     and Shawnee tribes–all three chiefs having previously
                    signed the treaty negotiated by 
                        Wayne
                     at 
                        Greenville
                     in 1795. The 
                        United States
                     later granted to about all of these chiefs grants of land in 
                        Ohio
                    .17 One of the commissioners negotiating this
                    treaty said to the chiefs: "You have now come forward to take us by the
                    hand; we are equally anxious and willing to take you by the hand, but you must
                    take up the tomahawk and with us strike our enemies. Then your great father, the
                    President, will forgive the past."18 The Indians
                    were furnished by the commissioners with sufficient whisky to whet their
                    hatchets against the British.
            Although hostilities lessened in 1814 on the eastern border, yet on the western
                    frontier, along the 
                        Wabash
                     hostilities continued till the end of 1815. Occasional murders were
                    reported and stock was frequently run off. The Western Sun,
                    August 14, 1814, stated that a number of horses had recently been stolen from
                    Busseron creek, north of 
                        Vincennes
                    , and that near 
                        Fort Harrison
                     thirty-two horses and a large number of cattle had been stolen by
                    the Indians.
            
               
                  16
                        State Pioneer Convention, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Oct. 2, 1878.
               
                  17
                        
                     
                                United States
                             Statutes VII, also Dillon, J. B., Indiana
                            Hist. Soc. Pub. I, p. 136.
               
                  18
                  Ibid, p. 137.
            
            
            LAND SPECULATION INCREASES 1814
            As hostilities on the eastern border ceased in 1814, settlers came in in great
                    number. On the seaboard times were dull, the coast was blockaded, taxes were
                    high, and the currency was in disorder. Agriculture was not flourishing, so
                    there began a flow of emigration westward that threatened to depopulate some of
                    the eastern States. The legislatures of 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                        North Carolina
                     lamented this great exodus of their people.19
                    
                        Dearborn county
                     received a goodly share of the emigrants, including some New
                        Englanders.20 The additions of population to this county
                    were such as to warrant the formation of a new county, 
                        Switzerland
                    , out of 
                        Jefferson
                     and 
                        Dearborn
                     counties, with about the same boundaries as at present.21 The main settlements of 
                        Switzerland county
                     were those of the Swiss colonists who had settled there in 1802, to
                    start the culture of grapes. 
                        Vevay
                    , which had been laid out in 1813, was made the county seat. It was
                    only a collection of huts in 1814, but it began a period of rapid growth.22
            
            Farther down the 
                        Ohio
                    , the town of 
                        Evansville
                     was laid out, and the lots were put on sale. The site for this
                    future city was described as having "an excellent harbor for boats, and
                    as to situation, it is perhaps surpassed by none in the western
                    country." The proprietor thought he could see its advantages for inland
                    trade. He predicted that the time was "not distant when merchants and
                    traders will, from economy, transport their goods across from 
                        Evansville
                     to 
                        Princeton
                     and 
                        Vincennes
                    , in preference to the circuitous route of the
                    Ohio and Wabash rivers."
                    However, the town did not grow much during the next two decades.23
            
            Other proprietors of towns were as enthusiastic as the proprietor of 
                        Evansville
                    . Other towns were advertised in the vicinity of 
                        Evansville
                     as being possible centers for the inland trade.24 By the middle of 1814 the settlements along this part of 
                        Ohio
                     had been so augmented by new settlers that the General Assembly
                    which met in August erected two new counties out of 
                        Warrick
                    . 
                        Posey county
                     was between the Wabash and Ohio
                        rivers and Perry was just west of the Principal Meridian. 
                        Warrick
                     was cut down, to include the remainder between the other two new
                        counties.25
            
            
               
                  19 McMaster, J. B., Hist, of the
                        People, IV. p. 383.
               
                  20 Matthew, L. K., Expansion of 
                                New England
                            
                  , p. 201.
               
                  21
                        Territorial Laws, 1814, p. 30.
               
                  22 McMaster, J. B., History of People of
                            the U. 8., IV., p. 385.
               
                  23
                        Western Sun, July 2, 1814.
               
                  24
                        Western Sun, Sept. 24, 1814.
               
                  25
                        Territorial Laws 1814, p. 18.
            
            
            With the increasing immigration, the land sales increased greatly. At 
                        Vincennes
                     the increase was 245 per cent, over the preceding year, and at 
                        Jeffersonville
                     the increase was 130 per cent. Although the increase at 
                        Jeffersonville
                     still remained about three and one-half times those at 
                        Vincennes
                    , thus showing that still in 1814 the immigrants were mostly
                    stopping in the eastern part of the territory. Farther east the sales at the 
                        Cincinnati
                     office were also great.26
            
            CURRENCY AND BANKING 1814
            With the increase in the sales of land arose also the demand for more money.
                    There were no banks in the territory in which the government could deposit the
                    money received at the land offices, so this money was taken east for depositing,
                    thus draining coin from the West. The people of the West bought more goods of
                    the East than the East bought from the West, so the balance must be paid the
                    East in money. These two drains upon the supply of money in the West were so
                    great that the people of the West were badly in need of some form of money. They
                    saw that the easiest way to get this form of money was to create banks, which
                    could make "money" as fast as printers could print the bills.
                    So, the General Assembly, which met for the first time at the new capital,
                    Corydon, in the summer of 1814, chartered two banks, the 
                        Vincennes
                     Bank, and the Farmers' and Mechanics' Bank of 
                        Madison
                    , the seat of 
                        Jefferson county
                    . This last bank was to prove a boon to the farmers of the
                    community, and it aided the merchants in their transactions with 
                        New Orleans
                     and with the East.27
            
            There were at the time three main ways in which money was secured for
                    investments: the military campaigns in the West had brought a good deal of money
                    to this region, as the contractors and merchants were paid for furnishing
                    supplies for the army; the continual stream of immigration brought in money to
                    invest; the banks could issue paper "money" almost without
                    limit. Consequently, a period of active speculation in town lots began. During
                    the year 1815, proprietors of various towns along White
                    river and the 
                        Wabash
                     advertised their towns for sale. Although the Indians were still
                    hostile along the 
                        Wabash
                    , the town of 
                        Carlyle
                     on the Busseron, north of 
                        Vincennes
                    , was advertised for sale, as being in the midst of a flourishing
                        settlement.28
            
            
               
                  26
                        Senate Doc. 30, Cong. Sess. 1 Doc. 41,
                        p. 67, ff. The figures for the land sales are taken from this document.
               
                  27 Esarey, L., State Banking in
                        Indiana, p. 221, ff,
               
                  28
                  Western Sun, June 30, 1815.
            
            
            PEACE RESTORED, SPECULATION INCREASES
            
            Early in 1815 it became known throughout the country that peace was restored
                    between the 
                        United States
                     and 
                        Great Britain
                    . With the return of peace, great quantities of English goods were
                    put upon the American market. In 1815 the importations from 
                        Great Britain
                     alone amounted to $83,000,000, and in 1816 to
                    $155,000,000. While the merchants were sinking their circulating
                    capital in these goods, American woolen, cotton, paper and iron manufacturing
                    was being ruined.29 These investments were felt along the
                    frontier. The 
                        New England
                     goods, too, found again a ready market in the West, before the rush
                    of English goods crowded them out. Before the middle of the year 1815 the 
                        Vincennes
                     merchants had laid in a supply–a "handsome
                    assortment of 
                        New England
                     cotton cloths.30
            
            With the return of peace, migration to Indiana Territory increased. In his
                    message, December 1, 1815, Governor Thomas Posey said:
            "Our emigration which is rapidly populating our fertile lands in a
                    little time will enable us to be admitted into the political family of the
                    Union, as an independent State. Permit me to recommend to the legislature the
                    propriety as well as the justice of imposing as moderate taxes on the emigrants
                    to this territory as may be compatible with the public interest. Most of them
                    have moved from a great distance, at a considerable expense. They have to
                    encounter money difficulties in opening their farms for cultivation, before they
                    can derive a support, much more a profit from them; and consequently their
                    ability will be lessened from contributing largely for a short time to the
                    public exigencies."31
            
            This document expresses the essence of settlers'
                    troubles–getting on a paying basis after expending so much of their
                    limited capital to get to the new country and to pay for their farms. It took
                    the greater part of the first year for a settler to get a small clearing made.
                    Even on prairie land, it was a great task to get the sod broken and the soil
                    subdued for planting. Labor was scarce, and there was little money to pay what
                    labor was available. All of these factors, together with many others, made the
                    task of forming a new settlement a difficult one. The capital of the West was
                    thus used up in getting started, and in investments, so that there was little
                    left in getting crops to market at a distance. In 1819 the 
                  
                     28 Coman, K., Industrial History of
                                U. S., p. 189.
                  
                     30
                            Western Sun, April 8, 1815.
                  
                     31
                            Nile's Register, X, p. 851.
               
                     president of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Bank wrote: "Our banking capital, here in the West, is all
                    tied up in city improvements, and there is none to move our
                        produce."32
            
            In the meantime the ferries across the 
                        Ohio
                    , and the roads leading north from them, had not been idle.
                    Kentuckians had been crossing the 
                        Ohio
                     at 
                        Henderson
                    , and settling in 
                        Posey
                     and 
                        Warrick
                     counties, and the western part of 
                        Gibson county
                    . Another road led toward the interior from the crossing at 
                        Rockport
                    . Farther up the 
                        Ohio
                     still another road led north from the crossing at Blue
                        river, into 
                        Washington
                     and 
                        Harrison
                     counties.33 By 1815 enough settlers had
                    followed this and other routes to justify the formation of two new counties. 
                        Orange county
                     was to consist of the territory from twelve miles west of the
                    Principal Meridian to eight miles east, and north of 
                        Perry
                     and 
                        Harrison
                     counties to the Indian boundary line of 1809. 
                        Jackson county
                     was to lie east of 
                        Orange
                    , west of range eight east, and north of the Muscatatuck, to the
                    Indian country. Both of these counties were in the basin of East White
                        river.34
            
            STATEHOOD
            
            The General Assembly in 1815 followed the suggestion of the governor, and
                    petitioned Congress to be allowed to pass to statehood. This petition stated
                    that the inhabitants were principally composed of emigrants from every part of
                    the union, and as various in their customs and sentiments as in their persons.
                    However, Southerners predominated in numbers, except possibly in the southeast
                    counties.
            The petition asked for an enumeration, which was taken. This census showed a
                    total population of 63,897–a little more than the 60,000 necessary to
                    pass to statehood. This census also revealed the fact that the population was
                    moving toward the interior, and settling there more than along the 
                        Ohio
                    . In the Whitewater basin, 
                        Wayne
                     and 
                        Franklin
                     counties (see map; 
                        Randolph
                     had not yet been erected), neither of which counties touched the 
                        Ohio
                    , contained a larger population than 
                  Dearborn, Switzerland
                and 
                        Jefferson
                     counties, by 30 per cent. The three counties, 
                        Posey
                    , 
                        Warrick
                     and 
                        Perry
                    , all on the 
                        Ohio
                    , practically the same territory as comprised 
                        Warrick
                     in 1813, did not have a combined population equal; to any one of
                    the interior counties. Of all the eight counties on the 
                  
                     32
                            American State Papers, Finance, III, p. 734.
                  
                     33 Cookrum, W. M., Pioneer History of
                                Indiana, p. 136.
                  
                     34
                            Territorial Laws, 1815, pp. 3, 57.
               
                    
                    
                        Ohio
                    , only Clark and Harrison had a population equal to the interior
                    counties. More than 71 per cent, of the population was east of the Second
                    Principal Meridian. The line between ranges five and six east (the line passes
                    through 
                        Columbus
                    ) would have divided the population into two almost equal groups.
                    About one-third of the population was in the three counties, Clark, Harrison and
                    Washington, the first two of which were on the 
                        Ohio
                    , and in the second was the new capital, Corydon. In this census the
                    newly erected counties, 
                        Orange
                     and Jackson, were counted as part of the original counties from
                    which they were formed. The census showed two regions more thickly populated
                    than any others–the upper Whitewater and the region west and
                    northwest of 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , about the new capital, Corydon.35
            
            The petition asking for statehood also asked that 7 per cent,
                    of the moneys received for the sales of public lands in the State be granted the
                    new State to be used as it saw fit. When 
                        Ohio
                     became a State in 1803 it was provided that 2 per cent, of the
                    sales of lands in the State should be devoted to the building of roads to 
                        Ohio
                    , by Congress, and 3 per cent, should be used by the State
                    legislature of 
                        Ohio
                     for roads within the State.36 But Congress
                    granted to Indiana only what had been granted to 
                        Ohio
                    –that 5 per cent, of the sales should be reserved for the
                    construction of public roads and canals, of which 2 per cent, should be used by
                    Congress in making a road or roads leading to the State, and 3 per cent, to be
                    used for roads or canals within the State, under the direction of the
                        legislature.37
            
            The petition also asked that section 16 in each township be granted the State for
                    school purposes; that in counties where section 16 had already been disposed of,
                    other lands be given instead; that township 2 south of range 11 west be granted
                    for an academy, and that a township be given for a college. All of these grants
                    of land were made by Congress, on condition that purchasers of 
                        United States
                     lands within the State should be free from taxation on the lands
                    purchased after December 1, 1816, for five years from date of purchase. Saline
                    lands (lands about salt wells) not to exceed thirty-six sections, were granted
                    the State for a site for a capital. The State boundary was extended north ten
                    miles beyond the southern point of Lake Michigan, and the
                    western boundary was to be the 
                  
                     35 Cookrum, W. M., Pioneer History of
                                Indiana, p. 390; census of 1815.
                  
                     36 Treat, P. J., National Land
                            System, p. 109.
                  
                     37 Poore, B. P., Charters and
                                Constitutions, I, 498. See also Amer. State
                                Papers, Public Lands.
                  
               
                    
                    
                        Wabash
                     from it smouth to the point where the meridian of Vin-cennes last
                    touched the river, and then north on this meridian. The eastern boundary was
                    left as it had been–the meridian of the mouth of the Miami
                        river.38
            
            SETTLERS' RIGHTS
            
            One of the reasons given by the petitioners for asking as much as 7 per cent, of the proceeds of the land sales was that the settlers had
                    endured many dangers and hardships to found settlements in this wilderness, as a
                    consequence of which the government lands were to be enhanced in value. It was
                    thought that this fact would justify the settlers in asking for a large per
                    cent, of the sales. These settlers had political theories almost as acute as
                    those of the French philosophers, although they seldom made display of their
                    theories unless they thought their rights were being interfered with. In the
                    latter part of 1815, some of the settlers thought the general government was
                    interfering with their rights. For about seven years the boundary between whites
                    and the Indian country had been stationary, but the frontier line of settlement
                    had moved onward, and many squatters could be found on Indian soil, where they
                    had no legal right to be. So, December 12, 1815, President Madison ordered all
                    such "unlawful occupants" or "uninformed or
                    evil-disposed persons" to remove from such Indian lands by March 10,
                    1816, under penalty of the law. In case they had not removed by the time set,
                    the 
                        United States
                     marshal was to remove them.39
            
            A storm of protest ensued, but it seems that perhaps a majority of the squatters
                    never took the proclamation seriously. However, one editorial writer under the
                    name of "Farmers' and Patriots' Rights," in
                    a continued series of articles, vigorously asserted the rights of the squatters,
                    and magnified what he thought was the high patriotism shown by the settlers as
                    they "kept in awe for the last three years, a savage foe, whose
                    tomahawks and scalping knives would otherwise have glittered in our
                    houses… Are they," said he, "when danger has ceased
                    to threaten, to be called uninformed or evil-disposed and ordered off the land
                    their presence alone has hithertofore secured?" This writer maintained
                    that the pre-emption laws passed by Congress at various times, benefitting those
                    who had settled illegally on government land, were as surely violations of the
                    law for preventing squatters from settling on 
                  
                     38 Poore, B. P., Charters and
                                Constitutions, I. 498; also Western Sun, Jan.
                            "816; see also Hinsdale, B. A., Old
                            Northwest, p. 326.
                  
                     39 Richardson, J. D., Messages
                                & Papers, I, p. 572.
               
                     Indian lands, as was settling there itself.
                    He then continued: "Can it be contended that when Congress and the 
                        United States
                     executive set an act at defiance, that the people should
                    not?"
            His final argument was that such a policy of removal would injure the Territory
                    By weakening the frontier, by taking away those daring men who had been keeping
                    back the Indians.40 Additional force is given these squatter
                    arguments when it is remembered that because of recent hostilities, many of the
                    settlers could not pay the final or fourth annual' installments on the
                    farms which they had purchased from the government. Upon this failure to make
                    the final payment, the settlers were obliged to forfeit their farms back to the
                    government, thus losing what they had paid down, and their improvements. Such
                    losses during the hostilities were comparatively great, running up to several
                    thousands of dollars. In 1813 more than half as much land reverted to the
                    government as was bought.41 The same persons who were
                    obliged to lose money because of the hostilities, were the daring men who had
                    been engaged in protecting the frontier–which protection enabled the
                    government to sell the lands at better advantage. The losses helped to unify the
                    settlers in their expression of what they called their rights.
            RUSH TO THE WABASH 1816
            By the summer of 1816 the lands along the 
                        Wabash
                     (as far north as Clinton), and inland for many miles east of the 
                        Wabash
                    ,. were surveyed, and put on sale at 
                        Vincennes
                    .42 Troops and travelers had passed over these
                    lands for several years, and had sent far and wide glowing accounts of the rich
                    lands along the 
                        Wabash
                    . All the west had heard of the prairies about 
                        Fort Harrison
                    . Indian hostilities had ceased the preceding year, so that
                    immigrants could safely take up land there. The fact that the State had grown to
                    an equality with the other States of the Union advertised the lands in Indiana
                    all the more. So a great flood of emigration set in toward Indiana, and a large
                    part of it turned into the 
                        Wabash
                     basin. In one day fifty wagons crossed the Muskingum at
                            
                  Zanesville, Ohio
               , all bound westward.43 Indiana afforded cheaper lands than 
                        Ohio
                    , so the tide of settlers flowed over and around 
                        Ohio
                     to settle on the 
                        Wabash
                    , and the lower White river. It is said that
                    42,000 came to Indiana in 1816.44 The land sales at 
                        Vincennes
                     increased enormously. 
                  
                     40
                            Western Sun, Jan. 27, Feb. 23, 1816.
                  
                            41
                            American State Papers, Public Lands.
                        
                  
                     42 See map in Indiana Auditor's Report,
                            1842, 27.6.
                  
                     43
                     Nile's Register,
                            November 23, 1816, p. 208.
                  
                     44 McMaster, J. B. History, V,
                            p. 159.
               
                     In 1815 the sales there had been only 30
                    per cent, as great as at 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , but in 1816, although at 
                        Jeffersonville
                     the sales increased 30 per cent., the sales at 
                        Vincennes
                     were greater than at the other office–in fact, they had
                    increased 425 per cent.45 Many people came down the 
                        Ohio
                    , others crossed over from 
                        Kentucky
                    , but the majority came overland. They came in all manners of ways.
                    Joseph Liston came from 
                        Ohio
                     to 
                        Vigo county
                    , bringing his family with him. He put his household goods on one
                    horse, and placed his two boys on top of the goods. His wife rode the other
                    horse and carried the youngest child, while another was tied on behind her. Mr.
                    Liston walked behind.46 This was the type of the immigrant
                    family ariving daily on the 
                        Wabash
                    . A study of the immigration to 
                        Vigo county
                    , as disclosed in the biographies of Beckwith's 
                        
                            Vigo County
                        
                    , shows that the majority of the permanent settlers were from
                            
                  New York, Ohio
                and 
                        Kentucky
                    . The nativity of the settlers of neighboring counties was similar,
                    except that the Quakers from 
                        North Carolina
                     comprised a more prominent element in the settlement of 
                        Parke county
                    .
            The following table is compiled from a study of the biographies of permanent
                    settlers in 
                        Vigo county
                    . It does not take into account the many pioneers who stayed for a
                    time and then moved on to other counties or states. In nearly all cases this
                    table has taken into account the State where born, and not the State from which
                    the settler came directly to Indiana. In some cases, if the settler had moved
                    into another State at any early age, and had spent a good many years in that
                    State, the table takes the latter State as the place of nativity. Although this
                    table could not be absolutely indicative of the nativity, it is valuable in
                    indicating the nativity of the people of 
                        Vigo county
                    .
            
               
                  Year.
                  N. Y.
                  O.
                  Ky.
                  N.C.
                  Pa.
                  Tenn.
                  Va.
                  Ind.
                  Other.
                  Ttls.
               
               
                  1816
                  5
                  1
                  2
                  2
                  1
                  0
                  1
                  0
                  5
                  17
               
               
                  1817
                  5
                  1
                  0
                  0
                  1
                  1
                  0
                  0
                  3
                  11
               
               
                  1818
                  4
                  4
                  1
                  0
                  1
                  0
                  1
                  0
                  5
                  16
               
               
                  1819
                  0
                  1
                  0
                  2
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  1
                  0
                  4
               
               
                  1820
                  2
                  2
                  3
                  2
                  0
                  1
                  0
                  0
                  2
                  12
               
               
                  1821
                  1
                  1
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  2
               
               
                  1822
                  1
                  0
                  3
                  1
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  5
               
               
                  1823
                  1
                  1
                  1
                  0
                  0
                  1
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  4
               
               
                  1824
                  1
                  3
                  1
                  0
                  1
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  6
               
               
                  1825
                  0
                  0
                  1
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  1
               
               
                  Totals
                  20
                  14
                  12
                  7
                  4
                  3
                  2
                  1
                  15
                  78
               
            
            
               
                  45
                        Senate Documents, 30 Cong. Sess. 1, Doc.
                        41, p. 67 ff.
               
                  46 Beckwith, 
                            
                                Vigo County
                            
                        , p. 464.
            
            
            GROWTH OF TOWNS 1817-1818
            The growth of towns, that had been begun in 1814, increased, and much capital was
                    invested in town improvements. Many paper towns were advertised during the year
                    1817, but a large part of these could not be found by the
                    "tender-foot" purchasers and many of the towns have not been
                    heard of since. Others, however, received a substantial growth. 
                        Vevay
                    , which three years before was merely a collection of huts, had
                    grown to be a flourishing county seat, with seventy-five dwellings, in which
                    lived a prosperous people. In this town were thirty-one mechanics of various
                    trades. It received mail three times a week, and supported a weekly
                        newspaper.47 In this year about 5,000 gallons of wine
                    were pressed from the grapes at 
                        Vevay
                    , averaging about 350 gallons per acre.48
            
            The German colony of communists at 
                        Harmony
                     on the 
                        Wabash
                    , had grown in the two years to consist of three hundred families,
                    with extensive farms, large barns and busy shops. All sorts of trades were
                    carried on, such as shoemaking, saddlery, weaving, etc. These communists in 1817
                    reaped a harvest from many acres of vines, 200 acres of wheat, 40 acres rye, 20
                    of barley, 30 of oats, and they had a meadow of 50 acres. They had a large stock
                    of cattle, hogs and merino sheep, the wool of which they manufactured into
                    broadcloth. A large ornamental garden, well-tended, caught the eye and fancy of
                        travelers.49 In the fall this colony was largely
                    augmented in numbers by a fresh immigration, about 1,000 being expected.50 This town became for a few years, one of the most noted
                    in 
                        America
                    , and scientists from all parts of the world visited it.51
            
            Another agricultural town further up the 
                        Wabash
                     was as noted as the colony at 
                        Harmony
                    , but for a different reason. The peculiar religious sect called
                    Shakers had a small town of about two hundred people, who lived in eight or ten
                        houses.52
            
            The mail routes give a good indication of the settled regions of the State in
                    1817. There were the following weekly routes which touched it: (1) 
                        Cincinnati
                    , North Bend, Mouth of Miami River, 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , 
                        Laughery Creek
                    , 
                  Vevay, Madison, Bethlehem
               , Province, 
                        Lexington
                     (Ind.), 
                  Charlestown, Jeffersonville
                and 
                        Louisville
                    : 
                  
                     47 McMaster, J. B., History, IV,
                            p. 385.
                  
                     48
                            Nile's Register, Nov. 29, 1817, p. 224.
                  
                     49
                            Nile's Register, Sept. 6, 1817.
                  
                     50
                            Nile's Register, Dec. 20, 1817, p. 272.
                  
                     51 Lockwood, 
                        
                                    New Harmony
                                 Movement.
                  
                  
                     52 Thomas, David, Travels, p.
                            149.
               
                     (a) 
                        Lexington
                     to 
                        Salem
                     and Paoli; (b) 
                        Charlestown
                     to 
                        Salem
                    , Beck's Mills, Lindley's Mills, Perry's
                    Ferry and Hawkins' Ferry to 
                        Vincennes
                    ; (c) 
                        Vincennes
                    , 
                        Hazelton's Ferry
                    , 
                  Columbia,
                            Princeton
               , 
                        Harmony
                    , 
                        Warrick
                     Court House, Rebus's Ferry and 
                        Shawneetown
                    ; (d) 
                        Shawneetown
                     (111.), 
                        Carmi
                    , 
                        Palmyra
                     to 
                        Vincennes
                    ; (e) 
                        Princeton
                     to 
                        Henderson
                     (Ky.); (2) 
                        Newcastle
                     (Ky.) to 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Vernon
                    ; (3) 
                        Louisville
                     to 
                        Corydon
                    , 
                  Fredericksburg,
                            Salem
               , 
                        Moser
                    , 
                        Vallonia
                     to 
                        Brownstown
                    .53
            
            During the year the speculation in town lots in the 
                        Wabash
                     basin continued. Lots were put on sale at 
                        Clinton
                    , on the 
                        Wabash
                    , near the Indian country; at 
                        Bloomington
                    , at places on the road from 
                        Vincennes
                     to 
                        Louisville
                    , on the 
                        Ohio
                     and at other places in the State.54 One town
                    thus advertised will serve as a type of town that tried to spring up in the new
                    State:
            "Sprinklesburg is laid out on the banks of the 
                        Ohio
                     2 miles below the mouth of Cypress–so much has been said
                    of the new towns laid off in this State that it is believed by the proprietors
                    needless to point out its various advantages. It is presumed that none will
                    become purchasers without viewing them; there is, however, no new town in point
                    of eligibility will bear a comparison with his.
            "Terms of payments–in 4, 8, 12, and 18 months, in equal
                    installments.
            "JOHN SPRINKLE
            "Proprietor."55
            
            Surplus capital at this time was invested in town property rather than in farms.
                    In fact, there was a very rapid and steady decrease in the sales of lands at 
                        Jeffersonville
                     from 1816 till 1819, and at 
                        Vincennes
                     till 1820. However, the sale at both places yet remained
                    considerable. The sales in Indiana at the 
                        Cincinnati
                     office were of lands between 
                        Brookville
                     and 
                        Vevay
                    , on the head branches of Tanner's, Hogan, Laughrey and
                    Indian creeks, west of 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     and Rising Sun and farther north in the extreme end of the Twelve
                    Mile Tract, on the branches of the White and
                        Mississinewa rivers.56 In this
                    latter region a new county, 
                        Randolph
                    , was erected along with two other border counties, Vigo and 
                        Monroe
                    , with 
                        Terre Haute
                     and 
                        Bloomington
                     as the chief towns of these two. South of 
                        Monroe county
                    , 
                        Lawrence county
                     was erected in the East White river basin. 
                        Ripley county
                    , which had been laid out two years before, was now organized. On
                    the lower 
                        Ohio
                    , 
                        Vanderburg
                    , 
                        Spencer
                     and 
                        Crawford
                    
                    
                  
                     53
                     Western Sun, Aug. 30, 1817.
                  
                     54
                            Western Sun, Aug. 30, 1817.
                  
                     55
                     Western Sun, Aug. 1, 1818.
                            (Cypress creek is in "
                                Warrick county
                            .)
                  
                     56
                            Nile's Register, July 4, 1818, p. 318.
               
                     counties were organized, with
                            
                  Evansville, Rockport
                and Fredonia as the chief
                    towns–all being ports on the 
                        Ohio
                    .57 This seemingly healthful growth, however,
                    was accompanied with economic distress, which was felt quite generally in 1818.
            ECONOMIC DISTRESS 1818
            The lands purchased from 1800-1820 could be bought of the government on credit,
                    so the greater part of them were bought on credit. Nearly all the purchasers
                    were in debt to the government, to the banks, or to their neighbors. There was a
                    great scarcity of money in the west, and this was the main cause of the economic
                    distress. The president of the State Bank at 
                        Vincennes
                     stated the situation in a letter dated January 9, 1819:
            
                    
                  
                     
                        "The present situation of the western people is
                                    distressing; they cannot get for their produce one dollar of the
                                    kind of money that will be received in payment of their debts to
                                    the 
                                        United States
                                    . It is not for want of a sufficient quantity of
                                    produce that the western people do not pay their debts, but for
                                    want of system in bringing the products of their labor to its
                                    market. The banks of the 
                                        United States
                                     west of the mountains issue but few notes, and
                                    these few are immediately collected by the merchants and sent
                                    east. The State banks of the western country have generally
                                    perverted the system of banking and instead of encouraging and
                                    fostering those who were employed in collecting and exporting
                                    the produce from which their country derives its wealth, they
                                    have built up their capital in cities and towns, from which they
                                    may, perhaps, derive the interest of their money, but cannot
                                    again withdraw their funds, at least for a long
                                    time…' 58
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            An English farmer living near 
                        Princeton
                     stated the economic and social condition as seen through the eyes
                    of an Englishman. He said:
            "Money cannot be gained by cultivation, produce may, perhaps, be sold at
                    some price, but you cannot get your money of the cheats and scum of society who
                    live here." 59
            
            Following the expiration of the First 
                        United States
                     Bank in 1811 was a period of reckless banking. A great many State
                    and private banks sprang up. James Flint, a judicious Scotch traveler, who spent
                    part of the year 1819 at 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , described the situation of the banks as follows:
            "The total number of these establishments in the 
                        United States
                    
                    
                  
                     57
                     Special Laws 1817, p. 12;
                            1818, p. 34.
                  
                     58
                            American State Papers, Finance, III, p. 736.
                  
                     59
                            W. Faux, Journal, Nov. 3, 1819, p.
                            222.
               
                     could not, perhaps, be accurately stated on
                    any given day. The enumeration, like the census of population, might be affected
                    by the births and deaths. The creation of this vast host of fabricators, and
                    venders in base money, must form a memorable epoch in the history of the
                    country." 60
            
            It is but just to the Farmers' and Mechanics' Bank of 
                        Madison
                    , however, to observe that it fared better than the State Bank of
                    Indiana and most private banks, for it continued to pay specie until all State
                    bank paper was refused at the land offices, and even then it continued to favor
                    the farmers of the 
                        Jeffersonville
                     land district by redeeming its bills when presented by persons
                    indebted to the 
                        Jeffersonville
                     land office.61
            
            Yet the Second 
                        United States
                     Bank, which was instituted at the beginning of 1817, acted as a
                    great restriction on the State banks. Although their number in the 
                        United States
                     increased from 208 in 1815 to 307 in 1820, their note issues were
                    reduced from $100,000,000 in 1817 to $45,000,000 in 1819,
                    and to $40,000,000 in 1820. This greatly reduced the amount of money
                    in circulation.62 As has already been pointed out, the
                    branches of the 
                        United States
                     Bank never issued money notes in the West. By order of October,
                    1819, the western branches were prohibited from issuing any more notes at
                        all.63 This lessened the available supply of circulating
                    medium, and compelled the government to receive more and more of the State bank
                    issues in the West and South. The State banks were anxious to loan as much of
                    this paper money as possible to the investors. Bad banking stimulated greater
                    investments, and desire to invest stimulated bad banking.
            In the early part of 1818 the Indiana State legislature passed an act for the
                    execution of the estates of insolvent debtors–a law that seemed fair
                    to debtors and creditors, but which was oppressive to the debtors, however just
                    it might appear. The debtor, after legal exemptions for personal property were
                    made, was to surrender the remainder of this property to the county courts which
                    would sell the property to pay the creditors.64 Because
                    money was scarce, and debtors could not pay, sheriff sales became common. The
                    condition in 
                        Vigo county
                     is a good example. In one day at 
                        Terre Haute
                     in 1816 there were sold lots to the value of $21,000,
                    and the best farm 
                  
                     60 Thwaites, R. G., Western
                            Travels, IX, p. 133.
                  
                     
                        61 State Papers 17, Cong Sess. I. Vol. 6, Doc. 66, p. 58 ft
                  
                     62 Dewey, D. R., Financial
                            History, 154, 166, and 228.
                  
                     63 Catterall, R. C. H., Second Bank
                                of tffe 
                                    United States
                                
                     , p. 454.
                  
                     64
                            Laws of Indiana, 1817-1818, p. 324.
               
                     land in the vicinity were quickly sold at
                    five to ten dollars an acre when the minimum was two dollars. During the fall of
                    1816, 906 tracts of 160 acres each were sold in the 
                        Vincennes
                     district.65 This was evidently speculation, and
                    the crisis of 1818 and following fell heavily on the purchasers. In October,
                    1819, the sheriff of 
                        Vigo county
                     advertised for sale ninety-seven tracts of farm land and sixty-four
                    lots in 
                        Vigo county
                     and 
                        Terre Haute
                    , and twelve lots at 
                        Greenfield
                    . All but seven of the tracts advertised were 160-acre tracts; only
                    two tracts were larger, and one of these was a 329-acre tract of third rate
                        land.66
            
            The 
                        United States
                     Treasury was puzzled as to what kind of money would be receivable
                    for lands purchased. By order of Congress, after February 20, 1817, no money
                    would be receivable for lands except in coins, 
                        United States
                     bank notes, treasury notes, and specie-paying notes of the State
                    banks. The 
                        Vincennes
                     Bank petitioned to be allowed to accept the deposits from the land
                    sales at 
                        Vincennes
                     and this arrangement was made. Secretary Crawford granted the
                    petition, and deposits were made there. But in 1819 the bank failed to meet the 
                        United States
                     drafts, so the bank was deprived of this privilege for a time.67
            
            The western branches of the 
                        United States
                     Bank, after sustaining serious losses by receiving notes of State
                    banks, were ordered after June 30, 1818, not to receive anything except specie
                    and their own notes. They withdrew all their deposits from the State banks, and
                    ceased all relations with them. This compelled the Indiana banks to cease
                    issuing notes, which were being used to drain their vaults of specie by being
                    presented for redemption as soon as issued.68
            
            By order of August 28, 1818, the branches of the 
                        United States
                     Bank were prohibited from receiving each other's notes.
                    The 
                        Cincinnati
                     banks could not meet their obligations, and failed in November. By
                    January, 1819, all the 
                        Kentucky
                     banks had suspended payments and their notes were at a discount of
                    20 to 30 per cent. Throughtout the years 1818-1820 State banks in the West and
                    South failed. Finances became so bad that the 
                        United States
                     Bank could not find a bank in Indiana, 
                        Illinois
                     or 
                        Tennessee
                     which it considered perfectly sound. Conditions in Indiana and
                    other western States 
                  
                     65 David Thomas's Travels;
                                Nile's Register, Oct. 12, 1816, p. 107; Western Sun, Oct. 5, Nov. 9, 1816.
                  
                     66
                     Indiana Centinel, Oct. 31,
                            1819.
                  
                     67 Esarey, L., Indiana Banking,
                            p. 223 ft.
                  
                     68
                            Ibid, 224.
               
                     were further complicated by replevin laws,
                    which threw hindrances in the way of creditors to prevent their collecting from
                        debtors.69
            
            After the government and the 
                        United States
                     Bank refused to accept anything but specie and 
                        United States
                     Bank notes, a farmer wishing to pay for his land had to have this
                    kind of money to pay his annual installment on his land. But where was he to get
                    either? Both were very scarce in the West. When the farmer sold his produce, he
                    had to accept the various issues of paper money then in circulation, or the
                    "shin plasters" issued by the merchants. If he did accept this
                    paper for his produce he could not pay for his land with it, and neither could
                    he take it to a bank and exchange it at par, either for specie or for 
                        United States
                     Bank notes, because State bank notes were greatly at a discount in
                        1819.70 The debtors were really in an aggravating and
                    embarrassing position. They laid a goodly share of the blame on the 
                        United States
                     Bank. The State constitution of 1816 forbade that bank from having
                    branches in Indiana.71 In this opposition the people were
                    led by the politicians, about all of whom were personally interested in the new
                    State bank.72 If the debtors could not make their final
                    payment for their land, it would be forfeited to the government. Such condition,
                    according to Governor Jonathan Jennings, would afford "commensurate
                    opportunities for speculation for those who can command funds which are
                    receivable, unless Congress shall interfere in their behalf."73 If land could be paid for only at a heavy discount on the
                    money which the farmers were compelled to accept for their produce, this
                    discount, the governor said, was "an indirect but exorbitant tax on the
                    farmer." He said that there were two reasons for this condition:
            (1) There was a mere regulation adopted to the interest of the stockholders of
                    the national bank, referring to the fact that this bank, in 1818, refused after
                    June 30, 1818, to accept any money except its own notes and specie.
            (2) The national bank was aided in this purpose by the Treasury Department, which
                    refused to accept from the debtors anything but specie and currency of the
                    national bank. Undoubtedly the governor was expressing the general view of the
                    West at that time, 1818-1819. The westerners did not realize
                    that their own bad banking 
                  
                     69 Catterall, R. C. H., Second Bank
                                of 
                                    United States
                                
                     , 60-64, 83.
                  
                     70 Catterall, R. C. H., Second Bank
                                of 
                                    United States
                                
                     , p. 454.
                  
                     71 Poore, B. P., Constitutions,
                            I, p. 509.
                  
                     72 Esarey, L., Indiana Banking,
                            p. 226.
                  
                     73
                            Nile's Register, Supplement, XV, p.
                        77.
               
                     and excessive speculation were responsible
                    for this depressing economic condition.
            The State legislature came to the aid of the debtors, and legislated for their
                    benefit. The amount of personal property exempted from sale, under execution for
                    debt, was considerably enlarged.74 A few days later the
                    General Assembly passed an act, to go into effect in January, 1819, compelling
                    the creditor to accept the paper of the State bank and its branches and of all
                    other chartered banks whose money was "current with the
                    merchants" at the time, or, should the creditor refuse to accept it at
                    par, the debtor should have a stay of execution for one year. Obviously this was
                    partial to the debtor, entirely unfair to the creditor, a political job, and,
                    under less distressing conditions, would have appeared a disgrace upon the
                    General Assembly.75 In the State senate, all members except
                    one, voted for the measure, and this one represented border counties where land
                    purchasers had not yet been oppressed by the necessity of paying the final
                    installments on their lands.76
            
            Such legislation soon raised opposition on the part of certain classes, for it
                    was evident that the law passed for the relief of debtors was aimed as much for
                    the relief of the State bank and its branches as for the relief of debtors. A
                    meeting of citizens was called, at 
                        Salem
                    , in 
                        Washington county
                    , and resolutions were adopted at the meeting condemning the banking
                    system of the State as injurious and dangerous, and that its influence was
                    "already too prevalent in our legislative councils." 77 The incoming settlers opposed the State bank, because
                    they suffered more from it than other people. As the settlers came in from the
                    East, they stopped at the State bank branch at 
                        Brookville
                     and exchanged their specie and 
                        United States
                     Bank notes, etc., for State bank notes, not knowing that the latter
                    would be discounted when passed at some distant town.78
            
            The people and editors in the West in 1819 began to awaken from their dream and
                    delusion. One Western editor wrote:
            "There is one cause in the western country which has operated very
                    powerfully in producing the present state of things, and which must continue to
                    operate in the same way: I mean, speculations in the public lands. Capitalists,
                    both real and fictitious, have engaged very extensively 
                  
                     74
                            Laws of Indiana, 1818-1819, p. 87.
                  
                     75
                            Laws of Indiana, p. 68.
                  
                     76
                            Senate Journal, Indiana, 1818-1819, p. 36.
                  
                     77
                            Western Sun, June 7, 1819.
                  
                     78 Esarey, Indiana Banking, p.
                            234.
               
                     in this business. The banks have conspired
                    with the Government to promote; the former by lending money to the speculators,
                    and the latter by this wretched system of selling the lands on credit. Nearly
                    all the money which is paid, goes over the mountains; the Government has but
                    little use for it in the western country.79"
            This last grievance was a very real one, and was felt by all. Many of the
                    immigrants brought good money with them to pay for the lands. The government,
                    having little need for the money in the West, and having no branch of the 
                        United States
                     Bank in Indiana in which to deposit the land revenues, the money
                    received for lands was taken to the Eastern banks for deposit. At the beginning
                    of 1819 the State bank of Indiana at 
                        Vincennes
                     petitioned the Secretary of the 
                        United States
                     Treasury asking that the revenues of the 
                        Vincennes
                     land office be deposited in the bank there. The petition stated:
            "That your memorialists are strongly of opinion, that the citizens of
                    this state have a right to the use of the public moneys raised within this
                    State, when they are not wanted by the Government, an opinion in which they
                    believe they are seconded by the unanimous voice of their fellow citizens of
                    this State." 80
            
            The petition was granted, but the last deposit was made in June, 1820, because
                    the bank failed to meet its drafts.81
            
            When the General Assembly met in the winter of 1819, it had to struggle with the
                    distressing conditions. The popular opposition which had shown itself to the
                    State bank had been active, and now appeared in the General Assembly, 1819-1820.
                    The previous General Assembly had ordered that all county and State collectors
                    of revenue should collect the bills of the State banks and of about all the
                    State and private banks of the surrounding States as long as such paper passed
                    current in the State. The notes of the 
                        United States
                     Bank were not included in the list.82 During
                    the year 1819 it was found that scarcely any of the bills passed current, so the
                    new General Assembly of 1819-1820, repealed the former act, and passed an act
                    authorizing the collectors to accept notes of "the banks of the 
                        United States
                     or its branches, or in the notes of the chartered banks of this
                    State, or their branches, or any of the State banks and branches of other
                    States, that passed at par within this State.83
                    
                  
                     79
                            Nile's Register, Sept. 4, 1819, p. 10.
                  
                     80
                            State Pavers, 17 Cong. Sess. 1, Doc. 66, p. 47.
                  
                     81 Esarey, Indiana Banking, p.
                            232.
                  
                     82
                            Laws of Indiana, 1818, p. 142.
                  
                     83
                            Laws of Indiana, 1819-1820, p. 159.
               
                     Thus the 
                        United States
                     Bank, by the end of 1819, was coming into favor in Indiana. The
                    State election of 1820 was conducted upon the question as to whether the State
                    bank should be compelled to redeem its notes or not. Only a few friends of the
                    State bank were returned to the General Assembly.84
            
            The General Assembly also passed one of those ingenious laws for the
                    "relief of debtors." By this act, if a debtor could not meet
                    his obligations, the sheriff should provide for "an inquest of five
                    respectable freeholders," who should estimate the value of the property
                    of the debtor whose property was to be sold under execution. No property was to
                    be sold "for less than two-thirds of the returned value of the
                    inquest." If the property would not sell for at least two-thirds of its
                    assessed value, there should be a stay of execution for one year. It is obvious
                    that in a country where nearly all the people were debtors, it would be
                    impossible to get "five respectable freeholders who would assess the
                    property low enough that it would find a purchaser even at two-thirds its
                    assessed value.
            Congress also came to the relief of the debtors. In fact, relief acts of some
                    kind had passed Congress nearly every year since lands were first put on sale in
                    Indiana. In 1818, 1819, and 1820 relief acts were passed for the relief of
                    debtors. By these acts, debtors whose lands were subject to forfeiture, were
                    given an extension of credit for one year, if the holding did not exceed 640
                    acres. The final period, at the end of which forfeiture of land for non-payment
                    should take place, was extended by the last of these acts, to March 31, 1821.85
            
            All the factors mentioned by the various writers quoted possibly were
                    instrumental in bringing this distressing condition upon the West in 1819. Lack
                    of good money; extravagant living; excessive buying from the East; the drain of
                    money from the West through the land offices; excessive speculations in lands
                    and town property; bad and reckless banking; the restrictions placed by the 
                        United States
                     Bank and by the Secretary of the Treasury on what money would be
                    received at the branch banks and at the land offices. All these undoubtedly
                    operated in bringing disaster to business and farming in the West. But one
                    factor, though perhaps not so distinct, was really above all other causes, and
                    yet related to them. The credit system had been abused. Banks and individuals
                    would loan money without sufficient security, on investments that were not
                    likely to pay 
                  
                     84 Esarey, L., Indiana Banking,
                            p. 234.
                  
                     85 Treat, P. J., National Land
                                System.
                  
               
                     dividends. The government would give four
                    years' credit to land purchasers, and this unduly encouraged credit in
                    all financial operations. As a result, the greater part of the people in the
                    West were in debt, and could not meet their obligations, as the amount of
                    acceptable money available became less and less. By December 31, 1820, the total
                    indebtedness at the land offices in Indiana was $2,214,168.63, which
                    amounted to a per capita indebtedness of $15 to the 
                        United States
                     Government alone, in a population of 147,178.86
                    This was a great indebtedness in a land where money was so scarce. Probably this
                    indebtedness was not more than half of the entire indebtedness in the State.
            Twenty years of the credit system in its operations on the public land sales had
                    shown its incompetency. It had worked disastrously to the Western people. In
                    1820 Congress passed an act establishing a new system of land sales. Treat, in
                    speaking of the act, said it "was the most important piece of land
                    legislation since the Congress of the Confederation laid down the principle of
                    the American land system in 1785." Credit was abolished, and the
                    minimum price was reduced from $2 to $1.25 per acre. After
                    July 1, 1820, cash must be paid for land, and land could be purchased in tracts
                    as small as eighty acres.87
            
            With credit on lands abolished, and speculation stopped of necessity, the country
                    could only wait for better times. As David Brown, the new president of the Bank
                    at 
                        Vincennes
                    , wrote to the Secretary of the Treasury, April 5, 1821:
                    "It will be a gradual work, and a steady perseverance will accomplish
                    it." 88 The new land system helped in this, for it
                    required that prospective purchasers should bring their money into the West with
                    them. The General Land Office, too, arranged to deposit the money for the public
                    land sales in the various State and private banks throughout the West, so that
                    it might enlarge the amount of much-needed money.89 The
                    mania for selling town lots subsided, and men gave up their dreams of immediate
                    wealth, for more sober considerations.90 The West was
                    beginning to recover from its awful delirium.
            GROWTH OF INDIANA DURING THE DEPRESSION
            
            By the beginning of 1819 the number of counties had been raised to thirty where
                    five years before there had been only one-third as 
                  
                     86
                            American State Papers, Public Lands, III, p. 561.
                  
                     87 Treat, P. J. National Land
                            System.
                  
                  
                     88
                            State Papers, 17 Cong. Sess. 17, Doc. 66, p. 54.
                  
                     89
                     Ibid Doc. 66.
                  
                     90 Thwaite, R. G., Early Western
                                Travels, IX, p. 217.
               
                     many. During the next year, in spite of the
                    depression, settlements and land sales continued, but less rapidly than before.
                    Indiana had a bright outlook for expansion northward, and for the expansion of
                    trade on the 
                        Ohio
                    . The steamboat had just been improved so that it now became
                    practicable on the western rivers. By 1818 there were thirty-one steamboats on
                    the 
                        Mississippi
                     and its tributaries, "in the full tide of
                    success," and thirty more were being built.91 Goods
                    could be brought from 
                        New Orleans
                     to 
                        Vincennes
                     for $4 per hundred, and from Pittsburg for
                    $1. On the other hand, produce could be shipped to 
                        New Orleans
                     for $1 per hundred and to Pittsburg for $3.
                    Because of this arrangement of freight rates most of the clothing and other
                    necessities from the East were hauled to Pittsburg and shipped down the 
                        Ohio
                    , and up its branches to the north. Sugar and coffee were obtained
                    at 
                        New Orleans
                     in exchange for corn, whiskey, flour, pork, and beef.92 Before steamboats were introduced on these rivers, it was almost
                    impossible to ship bulky goods up the 
                        Mississippi
                     from 
                        New Orleans
                    , or up the 
                        Ohio
                     to Pittsburg. With this advantage numerous little towns along the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Wabash
                     soon began to lift up their heads.
            On the north, settlements had been encroaching upon the Indian country, and the
                    Indians had expressed a desire to cede some lands.93 In
                    conformity with this desire, 
                        United States
                     commissioners met the Indians in October, 1818, and obtained large
                    cessions. The Delawares gave up all claim in the State, except that they
                    retained. the right to use their improvements for three years. They were to
                    receive a home beyond the 
                        Mississippi
                    . The Weas gave up all claims in 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, and 
                        Illinois
                    , except a tract about seven miles square on the 
                        Wabash
                    , just above the mouth of Raccoon creek. The Miamis gave up all land
                    south of the 
                        Wabash
                     and Maumee, except some reservations, as follows: (1) adjoining the 
                        Wabash
                    , from the mouth of Salamonie river west to the
                    mouth of Eel river; south from the mouths of these rivers a
                    distance equal to the distance between them. (2) Thorntown Reserve, ten miles
                    square on Sugar Tree creek. (3) Four other reservations from two to ten miles
                    square on the Wabash and Salamonie
                    rivers; (4) and a great many small individual grants. The
                    Pottawattomies gave up claim to all south of the 
                        Wabash
                    , and to the strip north of the 
                        Wabash
                    , bounded by that river, by the 
                        Vermillion
                    ; by the 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , and by a line drawn practically parallel to the 
                        Wabash
                     from two points on the 
                  
                     91 David Thomas's, Travels, p. 61, 272.
                  
                     92
                            Ibid, p. 193.
                  
                     93
                     Nile's Register, Feb.
                            8, 1817, p. 400.
               
                     other two rivers, the points being
                    twenty-five miles up from the mouths of the rivers. With the exception of the
                    Miami reserves, these treaties gave up to the whites all the central part of the
                        State.94 The treaties had not yet been ratified, when in
                    the first part of 1819, the General Assembly organized two new counties on the
                    border, Owen and 
                        Fayette
                    .96
            
            A decade had seen many changes in Indiana. It began with Tecumtha's
                    conspiracy to prevent further advances of the whites. The hostilities which were
                    thus precipitated lasted till the middle of 1814 on the eastern border, and till
                    the end of 1815 on the 
                        Wabash
                    . During this period continued migration to Indiana consolidated the
                    territory in the older regions and increased population in 1814 and 1815 enabled
                    the territory to become a State in 1816. As hostilities lessened, increased
                    immigration, excessive speculation, reckless banking, and the credit system,
                    began to affect the economic situation. These causes were stimulated in 1816
                    when Indiana became a State, and the middle 
                        Wabash
                     region began to be peopled. The climax of these operations came in
                    the form of the financial depression of 1819. There were in 1819 thirty
                    counties, extensive farming lands, and many new towns, more or less prosperous.
                    The settlements arranged themselves in the form of a crescent, with the tips in 
                        Randolph
                     and 
                        Vigo
                     counties, and the center at the capital, Corydon. The next decade
                    was to see the filling in of the rich country between the two tips of the
                    crescent, and the moving to the new capital at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . With the cession of the Indians in 1818 of the central part of the
                    State, settlers began rapidly to move toward the interior. Hardly had the
                    treaties been signed when Jacob Whetzel cut the famous "Whetzel
                    Trace" inland from Brook-ville to the White river,
                    below the future site of 
                        Indianapolis
                    .96 In 1820 
                        Indianapolis
                     was located,97 and five years later the General
                    Assembly met for the first time in the new capital. Settlers pushed up the
                    branches of the 
                        Wabash
                    , and overland bound for the heart of the land. A new commonwealth
                    was coming into its prime where only a few years before had been nothing but
                    wilderness, savage beasts, and Indiana.
            
               
                  94
                  
                     
                                United States
                             Statutes, VII, p. 185 ff.
               
                  95
                  Laws of Indiana, 1818-1819, p. 11.
               
                  96Banta, D. D., 
                            
                                Johnson County
                            
                        , (1881), p. 9 ff.
               
                  97 See "
                            Tipton
                        's Journal" on locating capital, Indiana Magazine of History, I. pp. 9-15; pp. 74-79.
            
            
            In 1784, Philip Freneau, prophetic of what was to be, penned the following
                    stanzas: 
                        "To western woods and lonely plains, Palamon from the crowd
                            departs, Where Nature's wildest genius reigns, What wonders
                            there shall Freedom show, What mighty States successive grow!
                        What charming scenes attract the eye On wild 
                                Ohio
                            's savage stream!
                        From these fair plains, these rural seats, So long concealed, so lately
                            known, The unsocial Indian afar retreats, To make some other clime his
                            own, Whither other streams, less pleasing, flow, And darker forests
                            round him grow."
                    
            
         
         
         
            The Old Chicago Road
            By JESSE SETLINGTON BIRCH
            
            (Read at an old settlers' meeting in 
                        Fowler
                    , Ind., August 26, 1914)
            The first roads in 
                        Benton county
                    , like those in all new countries, were the shortest that could be
                    laid out between given points, wet impassable places and creek fordings being
                    taken into consideration. Some landmark serves as a guide when the trails
                    crossed. The county was marked by Indian trails that were nobody knew how old
                    and led no white man knew where. As the county became more thickly settled
                    section lines and surveys were followed.
            Many State roads were established, three of which, the 
                        Chicago
                    , Fafayette and 
                        Michigan City
                     roads, crossed 
                        Benton county
                    . Only a brief description of the two latter roads is here given.
            The 
                        Lafayette
                     road was established by the General Assembly of 1840. It was
                    surveyed by Henry Robertson and was an extension of the road from 
                        Lafayette
                     to Sugar Grove, as approved by an act, February 7, 1835; to Parish
                    Grove and there to intersect the 
                        Chicago
                    -
                        Vincennes
                     road as near the grove as possible. From the east line of the
                    country to Parish Grove this road followed the "Old Army
                    Trail," the trail over which Gen. Walker marched government troops in
                    1832, to take part in the "Black Hawk" war in 
                        Illinois
                    . When the grove was reached Gen. Walker was met by a courier who
                    informed him that the Indians had been pacified. The troops returned along the
                    same trail.
            The 
                        Michigan City
                     road was surveyed by Henry Robertson in 1841. It was to have run
                    from 
                        Michigan City
                    , Ind., to 
                        St. Louis
                    , Mo. At that time 
                        Michigan City
                     was a rival of 
                        Chicago
                     and wanted the road in order to control the trade in this
                    territory. How far north or south of 
                        Oxford
                     the survey was made we do not know. A portion of it is still known
                    in 
                        Oxford
                     as the 
                        Michigan
                     Road and lies east of the Lake Erie &
                    Western railroad station. The swamps between 
                        Michigan City
                     and the rich territory to the south and west were so numerous that
                    the road was impracticable. 
                        Michigan City
                     did not recover from the panic of 1837, so 
                        Chicago
                     passed her in the race for commercial supremacy.
            The 
                        Chicago
                     road, the subject of this sketch, was established  at an early date. From the records of the acts of
                    the General Assembly and other sources this road must have been formed by the
                    junction at or near 
                        Williamsport
                     (
                        Warren county
                    ), of the State road extended in 1830, from 
                        Indianapolis
                     through 
                        Crawfordsville
                     to 
                        Williamsport
                    , thence to the State line near Raub, thence to 
                        Chicago
                    ; and the road running from 
                        Vincennes
                     through Gallatin, (Parke county), 
                        Covington
                    , Attica and to 
                        Lafayette
                    , as shown on a 
                        Mitchell
                     map of 1834. The road entered 
                        Benton county
                     south of Boswell and followed what is now the 
                        Williamsport
                     and Boswell gravel road from the county line to Boswell. At the
                    county line was a settlement called Petersburg, which consisted of a general
                    store, blacksmith shop and four or five residences. The business portion was in 
                        Benton county
                     and the residence portion in 
                        Warren county
                    . In the early 60's the Bunnell Bros, kept the general
                    store. They sold to James A. McKnight and John Spies. When the Lake
                        Erie & Western railway was built and Boswell platted they
                    moved their stock to that place. The 
                        Chicago
                     road was intersected by the 
                        Lafayette
                     road about a mile south of Parish Grove. At the intersection Thomas
                    Torrence kept a tavern.
            In the grove was another tavern kept by Robert Alexander. The Alexander tavern
                    was the most noted one on the 
                        Chicago
                     road. Here was toddy and a frontier welcome for the traveler,
                    home-seeker, or hunter. Many of the latter came to hunt deer, wild turkeys,
                    prairie chickens and quail. In the spring and autumn myriads of wild geese and
                    ducks were to be seen and the heavens were darkened by flocks of wild pigeons.
                    The tavern was a modest affair. There were several bed rooms, the big
                    dining-room, and the indespensible bar-room where the men loafed. Around the big
                    fireplace on a cold night mine host entertained his guests with the traditions
                    of the famed grove and of the Indians who made it their home. There were tales
                    of those lost on the prairie, the dreaded prairie fire, and the bravery and
                    self-denial of the early pioneers. The grove was a favorite camping place, as it
                    afforded shelter in time of storms, furnished wood for the camp fires and close
                    to the tavern was a spring of pure cold water. In the 40's and
                    50's there was a constant stream of "prairie
                    schooners" over this road. Through 
                        Benton county
                     it wound over the broad prairie broken only by Parish and Sugar
                    groves, while farther to the north it led through bog and fen. The swift running
                    deer often crossed the path and the gaunt wolf sniffed the evening meal and with
                    his echoing howls called his ever hungry comrades. There were tragedies on the
                    old 
                        Chicago
                     road. Many an emigrant or some member of his  family sickened and died and found a resting place
                    in an unmarked grave along its way.
            The 
                        Chicago
                     Road was a historic thoroughfare in its time, it being the main
                    artery of communication for travel from 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Vincennes
                     to the thriving city on the lake. When 
                        Chicago
                     became a live stock market thousands of cattle and horses were
                    driven over it. In places it was from thirty to forty rods wide, the teamsters
                    leaving the deeply worn places to find better footing, especially during a wet
                    time. The trail could be followed by the timothy and blue grass that grew along
                    the way, having been started from seed that had been dropped by teamsters going
                    to and from 
                        Chicago
                    , or the land hunters from 
                  Ohio, Kentucky
                and 
                        Virginia
                     on their way to the Northwest. In the fall many hauled apples from
                    Southern Indiana to 
                        Chicago
                     and many were the small boys who begged pennies from their mothers
                    to buy the luscious fruit. Evidence of this old trail still remains, the beaten
                    path in places being easily discernable across the fields.
            At the several stopping places taverns were to be found for the accommodation of
                    the travelers. The numbers and the frontier sociability at these places did much
                    to soften the asperities of travel especially during inclement weather. After
                    Parish Grove was passed going north the following were the stopping places: 
                        Sumner's Grove
                    , 
                        Bunkum
                    , 
                        Buckhorn Tavern
                    , 
                        Beaver Creek
                    , 
                        Big Spring
                    , 
                        Mo-mence
                    , 
                        Yellow Head Point
                    , 
                        Blue Island
                    , 
                        Chicago
                    . The trip required from six to eight days, all depending upon the
                    condition of the roads and streams, the latter being forded. This road was
                    abandoned in 1865 or 1866.
            The 
                        Benton county
                     pioneers made the trip to 
                        Chicago
                     in companies sometimes ten to twelve in number. The wagons were
                    usually drawn by oxen, two yoke to a wagon. In the fall when the roads were good
                    they often drove two teams of horses to a wagon and when the city was reached
                    one of the teams was sold. Travel to the south on this road was mostly to 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , where the land office was located, or to the Yountsville woolen
                    mills close by.
            There are still a few living in the county who went to and fro over the old 
                        Chicago
                     Road, and as they journeyed along the winding trail watched the
                    days go over the Western plains.
         
         
         
            INDIANA UNIVERSITY STARTER FOR MUSEUM
            THE STEVENS COLLECTION
            
            For the purpose of starting a museum of Indiana History at Indiana University,
                    Warder W. Stevens recently gave to the University a valuable and extensive
                    collection of materials illustrating pioneer life in the State.
            The collection includes relics from nearly all fields of pioneer activity. There
                    is a fully equipped conestoga wagon, one of the real old 
                        Prairie
                     Schooners; there are several plows, including the wooden, wooden
                    moldboard, jumping shovel, home-made double shovel, and others, with the single
                    and double-trees to match; there are cradles, sickles, a thresher, a cotton gin,
                    a hominy mill, a corncracker, a feed cutter, and many other relics to illustrate
                    this phase of life; there are spider skillets, ovens for baking corn pones,
                    pewter and wooden table ware, a crane for cooking in the fireplace, arid a full
                    assortment of what the old sales bills would call "household and
                    kitchen furniture too numerous to mention"; there is a loom, spinning
                    wheels, reels, winding blades and. some things along this. line for which I have
                    no names at present; there are flintlock, percussion caps, rifled and
                    smooth-bore guns wtih an assortment of bowie knives, pistols and revolvers.
            The following brief article written by the donor as he was waiting for a train
                    will convey some idea of the collection and the sentiment that makes such things
                    dear to the sons and daughters of the pioneers.— Ed.
            All of us, in a greater or less degree, find pleasure in comparing the present
                    with the past in order that we may note the rapid strides that have been made
                    along all industrial and educational lines since the days of our forefathers. We
                    look back over a brief life's space and are wrapt in wonderment as we
                    contemplate the rapid developments and achievements of a hustling, bustling
                    people along every walk of life. We listen to the stories of miraculous
                    accomplishments, but-we fail to catch onto the spirit of the age fully, until an
                    object lesson is placed before our eyes, which enables us, at a glance, to fully
                    realize that we stand in the midst of a rapidly developing age with
                    possibilities beyond all power of conception. For example, we can scarcely
                    realize that only a few years since there was no telephone, or that no farther
                    back than 1898 there was but one concern on the continent that had begun the
                    manufacture of the automobile. What an object lesson in rapid development it
                    would be to place that first horseless carriage alongside one of the most
                    complete models of the present day!
            
            I am asked to give a brief account of the collection of relics recently turned
                    over to Indiana University as a nucleus that is bound to grow until it will at
                    no distant day become a very interesting and instructive feature of this great
                    seat of learning in Indiana. The collector, like the specialist along all
                    progressive lines, is probably born, not made. Early in life most all of us show
                    some peculiar bent of mind that has much to do in shaping our destiny of
                    life's work. As I now look back over a period of more
                    than three score years it is plain to be seen that as a boy I had a penchant for the collection of old "traps" and but
                    for this love of preserving relics of various kinds many of the interesting
                    things this little collection contains would have been missing, as it would now
                    be impossible to duplicate them, except by model or imitation.
            The several thousand pieces of the prehistoric section were almost all picked up
                    in Southern Indiana, mostly in 
                        Washington county
                    . Whenever there was an idle day, or a day off from regular duty or
                    occupation, it was a great pleasure to roam the hills and valleys in search of
                    the old-time Indian village or camping ground, or in digging into the monument
                    of the mound builders, in search of those mute speciments of handicraft that
                    told of a people that in other years or ages existed and nourished in our land.
                    In many ways it is left for the imagination to picture out where these people
                    originally came from, how they employed their time and existed or what was the
                    cause of their fading away from the earth's surface. Not infrequently a
                    whole bunch of stone hoes, spear points, axes, tomahawks or arrows would be
                    unearthed near a spot where burned stones, flint chips and a nearby spring
                    showed that some time in the remote past there existed a village of Red Men or
                    the mound builder. The scattered finds were pieces lost by the hunter in the
                    underbrush while in pursuit of game. As a matter of course all these finds are
                    becoming scarce as the years go by and the country is being cleaned up and put
                    under cultivation. The most valuable finds were always made along the large
                    rivers and streams where not only hunting was best, but fishing could be
                    indulged in with greatest success. Bone fish hooks are still to be found in some
                    places along the Ohio river where the larger Indian
                    villages were located.
            As one looks at the wooden mould board plow it hardly seems possible that they
                    could ever have been used successfully by the husbandman in breaking up new
                    lands, full of grubs and roots. But they were a decided improvement over the
                    forked stick, its immediate predecessor. The "bar share" came
                    first in the order of invention,  it being
                    the flat share, with wooden mould-board attachment, fastened to the plow stock
                    or frame with wooden pins, bolts for such purpose not having as yet come into
                    general use. The pair of wooden double-trees, now over a century old, show to
                    what straights the farmer of that day was compelled to resort in order to get a
                    field with team and plow to cultivate the land. Almost every farmer was then a
                    sort of Jack-at-all-trades. He manufactured his own harness from leather of his
                    own tanning, and such farm implements as were used were home products. No such
                    thing as a plow or wagon factory was to be found anywhere in the country,
                    especially in the newly settled portions. Hoes, spading forks, nails, knives and
                    forks, spoons and the like were manufactured by the blacksmith, who burned the
                    charcoal that was used in the forge of the shop.
            But to go back to the plows, the "Carey" was successor to the
                    bar-share pattern. It was made with an upright iron projection extending above
                    the flat bar, finished with a smaller wooden mould-board. This plow came into
                    use in Indiana about 1815. The earliest settlers, about 1800, located in the
                    southern tier of counties, were content with the bar share. The "Daniel
                    Webster" plow came into use about 1835, the share and mould board being
                    made of un-wrought and cast iron. In a remodeled form it was known as the
                    "Peacock" plow, a man by that name back East, probably in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , having first made and put it upon the market. The mould-board was
                    cast in the furnaces up in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and shipped down the 
                        Ohio
                     on rafts or flat boats to destination, where they were fitted to
                    plow stocks by the wagon-wright or blacksmith, the latter not infrequently being
                    able to work in both iron and wood successfully. About the year 1850 the
                    "Rounder" came into use, a plow that had share and mould all
                    in one solid piece, and made of steel, the first plow made that would scour in
                    light, loose soils. They were used in cultivating corn, running the bar side
                    next to the row till last cultivating when the earth was thrown up against the
                    corn. The jumping shovel was its successor in corn cultivation, as well as in
                    breaking up new land. The double shovel cultivator with wooden frame was first
                    made and used along in the 50's.
            Spinning wheels, large and small, were to be found in every well-furnished home,
                    home-made in most instances, and kept buzzing by the housewife in manufacture of
                    thread and yarn to be used in making the homespun linen, jeans and flannels that
                    was worked up into wearing apparel for the entire family.
            The very first settlers were content with cabins with puncheon  floors and doors, but a little later on the whipsaw
                    was introduced to make such boards as were necessary in home building. In this
                    collection is a saw brought into 
                        Washington county
                     about 1807 and used for a number of years. A poplar log, the
                    yellow, soft variety, was hewn square, and then mounted upon some sort of
                    trestle about seven feet above the ground. On top it was lined off with blue dye
                    or poke-berry juice, the lines being spaced according to the" thickness
                    of lumber or joists desired. One sawyer was located on top of the log and
                    another underneath, and with every downward stroke of the saw a cut into the
                    timber was made. Two good sawyers would thus cut about two hundred feet per day.
                    The last time the saw in this collection was used was on exhibition display at a
                    Granger picnic near 
                        Salem
                     in 187G, when Bluejeans Williams was a candidate for Governor, who
                    was top sawyer, and a man named Morris pulled at the handle underneath. What a
                    contrast there is between this saw, considered a great invention a century ago,
                    and the immense sawmill plants in the lumber camps of the country where lumber
                    by the thousands of feet are turned out every hour of the day.
            The old-time trundle bed, upon which John Hay, the celebrated author and
                    statesman, slept during his boyhood days in 
                        Salem
                    , is a relic every Hoosier should feel proud of. The dog-wood glut
                    or wedge, unquestionably made by Lincoln's hands during his youthful
                    days in Southern Indiana, when he earned his name as the "Rail
                    Splitter" President, is one of the interesting pieces of this
                    collection.
            The various items in this collection are carded and briefly described, and when
                    all are properly arranged in cases will no doubt be interesting to students of
                    the University who care to compare the present with the past. And it is to be
                    hoped that this display may induce others who have old-time relics or heirlooms
                    of an interesting nature to deposit same with the University, and that in time a
                    very interesting historical museum may be collected.
            WARDER W. STEVENS.
         
         
         
            Minor Notices
            JOHN E. LAMB
            
            THE HON. JOHN E. LAMB of 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Indiana, died August 23, 1914. Mr. Lamb was the son of. Michael
                    and Katherine (Mc-Govern) Lamb, both of whom were born in 
                        Ireland
                    . He resided in 
                        Terre Haute
                     throughout his entire life. When a young man he studied law in the
                    office of Voorhees & Carlton, and was admitted to practice in 1874. At
                    the time of his death, he was a member of the law firm of Lamb, Beasley,
                    Douthitt & Crawford.
            During the whole of his mature period, Mr. Lamb was an active leader in the
                    Democratic party. He was appointed prosecuting attorney for the judicial
                    district, including the counties of 
                        Vigo
                     and 
                        Sullivan
                    , in 1875 to fill a vacancy, and was elected to the same office in
                    1876. In 1880, and also in 1888, his name appeared on the Democratic ticket as a
                    candidate for presidential elector. In 1882, he was elected to represent his
                    congressional district in the national House of Representatives. He was a
                    candidate for re-election in 1884 but was defeated. In 1886, he was again
                    nominated, but again suffered defeat. He served his party as a delegate in
                    several national conventions, including those of 1896 and 1912, presiding at one
                    session of the latter convention.
            Mr. Lamb was united in marriage to Esther, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Kent,
                    in 1890. One son, John Kent Lamb, was born in 1902. The widow and son survive
                    the deceased.
            The following letter was among those received by Mrs. Lamb after the death of her
                    husband:
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              Department of State, Washington
                           ,
                                        Aug. 24.
                        My Dear Mrs. Lamb:—
                        I wired my sympathy last night as soon as I received the sad news
                                    of Mr. Lamb's death. It occurs to me that in this dark
                                    hour it may lighten your burden of sorrow to know that for more
                                    than a year the President has held the office of ambassador to
                                    Mexico for Mr. Lamb– the appointment only awaiting
                                    the restoration of peace in that country.
                        It is a special disappointment to us that Mr. Lamb did not live
                                    long enough to receive this merited recognition of his worth and
                                    political  services.
                                    Vice-President Marshall and Senators Kern and Shively will, I
                                    know, share this disappointment. Again expressing condolence,
                        
                                    I am very truly yours,
                                    W. J. BRYAN.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            ADAM HEIMBERGER
            
            ADAM HEIMBERGER, a prominent citizen of 
                        New Albany
                     and a widely known Indiana Democrat, died September 21 at his home.
                    He was the Democratic candidate for secretary of State in 1900, and was the
                    candidate on the Democratic State ticket for clerk of the Supreme Court in 1902.
                    Mr. Heimberger was prominent in the Evangelical Church and was district
                    treasurer of the Indiana district of the Evangelical Synod of 
                        North America
                    . He was president of the board of trustees of the Indiana Hospital
                    for the Insane in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and had served as city controller of 
                        New Albany
                    . Mr. Heimberger was a past exalted ruler of 
                        New Albany
                     Lodge of Elks and also was a member of the Masonic, Knights of
                    Pythias and Modern Woodmen fraternities. He was 54 years old and was a native of
                    this city. His widow and a son, Henry E. Heimberger, survive him.
            DAUGHTERS OF THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION
            
            THE annual conference of the D. A. R., which was held at 
                        Fort Wayne
                     this year, was attended by a larger number of delegates than have
                    ever before been registered at the State gathering of the D. A. R. in Indiana
            The State organization now numbers fifty-four chapters with a total of 2,582
                    members, in addition to 90 members-at-large.
            That the Indiana State society of Daughters of the American Revolution is having
                    a steady and substantial growth was shown by the report of the state regent,
                    Mrs. Frances H. Robertson, submitted Wednesday morning.
            Mrs. Robertson stated that during her three years' regency there had
                    been an addition of 264 new members, of whom more than one-third were members of
                    newly-organized chapters of the year 1913-1914 at 
                        Gary
                    , 
                        Hanover
                    , 
                        Bourbon
                     and 
                        New Harmony
                    .
            The State organization has lost two chapters and gained five. Attempts have been
                    made to interest 
                        Bluffton
                    , 
                  Angola,
                            Monticello
                and 
                        Hartford City
                     in forming chapters but nothing definite has as yet been done.
                    Chapters can be formed if the State regent will visit the towns and further
                    arouse interest.
            Mrs. Robertson expressed her appreciation of the always able  and cordial support afforded her by her co-workers
                    and the program committee. She urged greater consideration of the home, of
                    husband and of children as upon them depend the safety and stability of the
                    nation. "Train your sons to be good and patriotic citizens and your
                    daughters to be homemakers with their highest ambition to be queen of a home and
                    mother of children," urged the regent. That her remarks met with
                    approval was shown by a burst of applause.
            Mrs. Robertson's interesting report was a mingling of statistical facts,
                    historical incidents and poetic thought.
            "The hardest thing a regent has to contend with is that women want to
                    hold office. Every office carries its responsibility of some duty, however, and
                    no member of a chapter is without some sort of work to do if she carries out the
                    thought and the aim of the society. If women desire to help their chapters and
                    their chapter regents they can do no two things better than to be present at all
                    meetings and be prompt in attendance.
            Mrs Robertson greatly deplored the entrance of "politics" into
                    the national organization and gave as a comparison the great work of the W. C.
                    T. U., which is accomplishing so much without quarreling and quibbling. An
                    announcement of the candidacy of Mrs. G. J. Guernsey, of 
                        Kansas
                    , for the office of president-general of the national society and
                    parts of her platform were read and the State regent heartily endorsed such
                    planks as she read as coincident with her own ideas of real progress and the
                    highest purpose of both national and State societies.
            The chief address of the program was given by Mrs. Charles W Bassett, of 
                        Baltimore
                    , Md., who was one of the first visitors to arrive. Mrs. Bassett is
                    historian general for the National Society of the Daughters of the American
                    Revolution, and with her mother and sisters were among the founders of the
                    society, which is not yet a quarter of a century old. But in spite of the many
                    things Mrs. Bassett has done and is doing, for she is a farmer, is preisdent of
                    the Woman's Exchange in 
                        Baltimore
                    –with over two hundred consigners weekly–has a
                    home with her husband and daughter to look after, she has enough enthusiasm left
                    to scatter at every meeting or convention of the D. A. R. she attends.
            Owing to the prominence of Mrs. Bassett in the national society of the
                    organization, her address was anticipated with unusual interest and the
                    auditorium was filled with an audience of men and women whose attention was
                    gripped by the force and inspiring content 
                    of her address and who were touched by the charm of her very evident natural and
                    sincere personality.
            Early in her address Mrs. Bassett referred to the Bible story of the three,
                    stewards, remarking of the two who did something that their reply to the Master
                    was in fourteen words each, while the one who hid his talent and laid it away
                    took fifty-two words to make his statement about himself. Without pursuing the
                    analogy further Mrs. Bassett asked concerning the work of the past, if it is not
                    greater to create than to examine and report. In that way then can the work of
                    the spirit that actuated the heroes of the revolution and their immediate
                    descendants be preserved and cultivated in the hearts of the present and future
                    generations? This query, put by Mrs. Bassett was. enlarged upon as she gave
                    remarkable as well as interesting facts and suggestions. She said patriotism is
                    not something to be carried out by societies organized to perpetuate the
                    memories of the men and women who laid the foundation of this great republic but
                    is rather to instill a regard for the spirit of self sacrifice which was a
                    dominant trait in the character of the heroes, men or women, of the early years
                    of this country.
            Mrs. Bassett urged the preservation of historical records and told of many
                    documents of value that had been brought from Salvation Army piles of waste
                    paper where they had been consigned by men and women who in their housecleaning
                    efforts from time to time had "cleared out the old rubbish."
                    Mrs. Bassett also talked of the destruction of old historic places, landmarks,
                    alteration of names of streets, occupation of buildings, even of churches,
                    commercialized as places of business and referred to the preservation of
                    beautiful and sacred Mt. Vernon through the efforts of a woman of 
                        North Carolina
                    . Referring to the admiration often given in extravagant praise to
                    old historic spots abroad and the familiarity many Americans have with the
                    "old country," Mrs. Bassett asked, "Isn't
                    our history picturesque; hasn't this country any romance?" The
                    price of the peace we enjoy was the bloodshed of thousands of brave men. To
                    forget is to be ungrateful for our blessings.
            Mrs. Bassett praised the western country and coincident with that part of her
                    address urged that Indiana should have written and published a history of
                    herself and a copy be sent to the National Society of D. A. R. Mrs. Bassett
                    referred to the idiomatic speech of Bret Harte–as one
                    example–of Whitcomb Riley as another, saying that the plea for one
                    English speaking language was good but deploring the disappearance in records of
                    things that have been a part of the character making and upbuilding of the
                    people. Mrs.  Bassett is a believer in
                    "family trees," even if the crop is sometimes a failure, in
                    keeping records from generation to generation of birth, marriages, etc., and in
                    instilling a regard and a respect for the family; for home and the love of
                    liberty, the most priceless of blessings of the many with which this country is
                    endowed.
            The entire exercises of the session were extremely interesting and the musical
                    features brought great applause.
            Interest upon the choice of a design for a flag to be adopted by the conference
                    with an idea of a further request of the state legislature to make this accepted
                    design a State flag, had a setback un-looked for. It had been understood that
                    Indiana had no flag, but one of the committee on investigation produced a copy
                    of the Indiana banner or emblem, accepted by the legislature previous to
                    Governor Mount's election, which she had recently received with a
                    letter from the Secretary of State, L. G. Ellingham. The letter stated that this
                    banner of the State was not called a flag, but was the official emblem used in
                    connection with the State seal.
            The matter of whether the State Conference of Daughters should adopt a design for
                    a flag as their own insignia or adornment was postponed in the future.
            Mrs. James B. Fowler, chairman of the committee on resolutions, read resolutions
                    extending thanks to the local chapter, to the press, to various chairmen of
                    committees, to the presiding officer, Mrs. Frances H. Robertson, for numerous
                    courtesies, to musicians and others who lent aid and the consideration for
                    delegates extended by the Anthony Hotel.
            The conference was voted one of the most successful, as well as the largest in
                    the history of the organization.
            One of the most interesting features of the State Conference of the D. A. R. was
                    a talk by Mrs. W. B. Neff, of 
                        Cleveland
                    , who is chairman for the National Girl Homemakers of 
                        America
                    . Mrs. Neff spoke without notes and so brimful is she of her work
                    that statistics, word pictures and description of plans rolled from her lips
                    almost faster than she could speak them. Mrs. Neff's talk was of
                    compelling interest and her audience gave her flattering attention. In
                    commenting upon the work of the branch of educational work which she represents,
                    Mrs. Neff said that the divorce evil was in a measure the result of unprepared
                    girls and young women to make the home what it should be. Eighty-five per cent,
                    of the divorces secured are sought by women and sixty-seven per cent, of the
                    eighty-five are sought with the excuse of lack of financial support. On the
                    other hand, Mrs. Neff declared the cause of the  greater part of marital trouble to be the ignorance
                    of the wife for domestic affairs. The majority of girls marry with no knowledge
                    of cooking, sewing, planning, keeping things clean, saving "the
                    pennies," mending or the hundred and one things a competent housekeeper
                    knows about. The strong old Anglo-Saxon word, "help," used in
                    early days of this country in the sense of employed household service has been
                    lost to use just because of the incompetency of the girls employed to be that
                    very thing, a "help" in the household. But the incompetency is
                    not confined to those who can be obtained through the medium of the employment
                    bureaus. They are found in the homes of the laborer, the artisan, the
                    manufacturer, the millionaire. Now with the loss of life and the awful
                    destruction going on in the European war, the American woman will
                    become–in the words of an eminent writer–the
                    "torch bearer of the world." The American woman must establish
                    the standard. And yet, according to more statistics from Mrs. Neff in a long
                    procession of employes of an industrial concern in 
                        Cleveland
                     but one-tenth of them were Americans. That is but one example. The
                    duty of 
                        America
                     is to teach. So the work of the Girl Homemakers club is to educate
                    the foreigners to be fitted to make the American home. In 
                        Cleveland
                     the work has been taken up by the D. A. R. Society and similar work
                    is being done in other organizations of the Daughters.
            Reports on different phases of works of the society were given during the
                    afternoon by Mrs. Newberry J. Howe on the reciprocity bureau, and Mrs. Harry V.
                    Sheridan. The report on conservation by Mrs. M. C. Garber, another of welfare
                    women and children by Mrs. Martha B. Hanna, who is state chairman and also a
                    member of the national society's board of historians, and a talk on old
                    trail roads by Mrs. W. W. Garr, on the Daughters' magazine, by Miss
                    Mary Alice Warren, and report of the movement for children of the American
                    Revolution, by Mrs. H. W. Moore, were other important subjects taken up for the
                    day. A dinner at the Anthony and a reception given by the local chapter at the
                    home of Mrs. Roberts in the vening were the social events of the day.
            Mrs. Henry A. Beck, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , was the choice for the office of State regent and Mrs. John Lee
                    Dinwiddie, of 
                        Fowler
                    , was again chosen to represent Indiana as vice-president general.
            Other State officers were elected without opposition to any
                    candidate–Vice-regent, Miss Edna Donnell, of 
                        Greensburg
                    ; secretary, Miss Anna B. Sankey, 
                        Terre Haute
                    ; treasurer, Mrs. Otto Rott, 
                        Bloomington
                    ; historian, Miss Katherine Mcllvain, 
                        Vincennes
                    ; audi tor,  Mrs. Edna Felt, 
                        Huntington
                    ; chaplain, Mrs. E. C. Atkins, 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            An invitation to hold the next conference in 
                        Terre Haute
                     was read and accepted and the fifteenth annual meeting of the
                    Daughters will be held in that city, October 10, 1915.
            The selection of Mrs. Beck for the highest office of the State organization
                    followed the nomination of Mrs. W. A. Cullop, of 
                        Vincennes
                    , for the same honor and the immediate withdrawal of Mrs. Cullop as
                    a candidate, owing to her receiving Thursday morning from Mrs. W. C. Story,
                    president-general of the national society, a request to serve as corresponding
                    secretary-general on the national board.
            CHURCH HISTORY
            
            WORK in this field of State church history is attracting
                    increasing attention. Professor Sweet, of 
                        DePauw
                    , is organizing the efforts of the Methodists along this line. Some
                    of his graduate students are doing research work in this field. The district
                    superintendents are assisting and the interest is reaching individual
                    congregations. In such a large field there is no limit to the amount of work to
                    be done.
            The Presbyterians at their recent meeting in 
                        New Albany
                     took steps looking toward systematic historical work.
            The Catholic Church, the oldest of the Indiana churches, has valuable collections
                    of records at 
                        Vincennes
                     and Notre Dame which date back to the very beginning of Indiana
                    history. That church can never be given its proper place in the history of the
                    State until these sources are made available.
            The history of other churches, such as the Baptists, Disciples, Congregational,
                    Universalist, Shaker, and Friends, dates back a century and affords ample field
                    for the historian. The great task in all this work is the collection of
                    material.
            HISTORY OF EDUCATION
            
            PROF. FRANCIS M. STALKER, of the Department of Education at the State Normal, is gathering
                    some material on the history of our early schools. He is especially interested
                    in the academies and seminaries. There has been a surprisingly large range of
                    educational experience in the century of Indiana history. Any one possessing
                    material relating to any of the early schools or school systems
                        will confer a great iavor on Professor Stalker by writing him
                    concerning it.
            
            HENRY COUNTY HISTORICAL SOCIETY
            
            The semi-annual meeting of the society was held at 
                        Newcastle
                    , October 29. During the forenoon session the president, W. H.
                    Keesling, delivered his address, and Dr. J. W. White read a paper on
                    "Old Time Memories."
            After a dinner, served in the rooms of their building, Mrs. E. H. Bundy made a
                    memorial address on the life of Charles S. Hernly, whose death was noticed in
                    the last number of this magazine. An address by Mary Hannah Krout on "
                        Hawaii
                     Under the Flag," and a paper by W. R. Wilson on
                    "County Examiners and County Superintendents of 
                        Henry County
                    ," finished the program as far as historical matter is
                    concerned. Music was in evidence at every opportunity on the program. The
                    society is now in its twenty-eighth year and thriving. W. H. Keesling is
                    president and Lillian Chambers, secretary.
            THE TIPPECANOE TRAIL
            
            J. WESLEY WHICKER in the Attica
                    Ledger-Press, August 14, 1914, published the results of some investigations he
                    had recently made concerning the exact route of Harrison's army across 
                        Warren
                     and Benton counties on the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     campaign. Harrison feared an ambuscade. For that reason he crossed
                    the 
                        Wabash
                     at the site of the present town of 
                        Montezuma
                    . He sent scouts to cut a road upon the east side of the 
                        Wabash
                    , hoping to thus deceive the Indians if they intended an ambush. The
                    feint in the direction of the 
                        Illinois
                     towns was also made to disclose any forces hiding in the vicinity
                    of Pine Creek. As stated above the little army crossed the 
                        Wabash
                     at what is now Montezuma.
            From this point they skirted the prairie. They detailed sixteen men as a guard to
                    prevent an ambush from the river between the camp and the river. These sixteen
                    men were deployed on each side of Pine creek nearly straight north from 
                        Williamsport
                     and just abou: where the 
                        Williamsport
                     road starts across the Pine creek bottoms in going to Kramer. The
                    army skirted the prairie for the reason that in its march to the Battleground it
                    could easily watch and guard the left flank of the army and the view of the
                    prairie would prevent an ambush. There were many Indians along the river so the
                    soldiers left the timber land of the 
                        Wabash
                     well to their right as they moved northward. It took the soldiers
                    two hours to cross the 
                        Wabash
                     at 
                        Montezuma
                    . They then followed near the banks with the army, taking their
                    provisions in boats on  the river, to a
                    point a little below the mouth of Coal creek, which is a little below the south
                    line of 
                        Fountain county
                    . Here on the banks of the river they built a fort as a base of
                    supplies, sent forty men back to guard the women and children at 
                        Fort Harrison
                     and left eight men to guard the fort. With the assistance of W. W.
                    Pcrter and his wife and sons we were able to locate the site of this fort, which
                    is on the Porter land. John C. Colett, at one time the state geologist of
                    Indiana, a local historian of rare worth, had inspired Mr. Porter with a pride
                    in local history. The Porters were thus able to show the remains of the corduroy
                    roads made by the Harrison army through the swampy lands near their place. The
                    soldiers crossed the Little Vermillion river just south of
                    Eugene, at what is known as the "army ford" near the 
                        Shelby
                     place. This was the principal camping ground of the Kickapoo
                    Indians. After crossing the Vermillion river they went
                    north to the prairie in the state of 
                        Illinois
                    , south of 
                        Danville
                    , crossing the 
                        Illinois
                     line south of State Line. Two private soldiers of the army were
                    buried in the Gopher Hill cemetery south of Marshfield. The
                    trail can be plainly seen through the yard of a farmer who has carefully
                    preserved it about a mile and a half northwest of the cemetery. They camped one
                    night in the Round grove, now the property of Frank Goodwine of 
                        West Lebanon
                    . There was a spring in this grove which never went dry and the
                    grove was far out in the prairie. On their return trip two of the soldiers were
                    buried in this grove. The grove can be plainly seen from Sloan or Hed-rick.
                    Cassius M. Clay said the soldiers got blue grass seed here and carried it back
                    to 
                        Kentucky
                    , from which came the 
                        Kentucky
                     blue grass. From here they marched to the "army
                    ford" of Pine creek above Brier's mill. On their return trip
                    they camped one night there. On the northwest shore of the creek two of the
                    soldiers died and were buried. There was a very large rock in the middle of the
                    road one mile south of the Butler place known as the "army
                    rock." It was a niggerhead and the largest niggerhead in 
                        Warren county
                    . The trail led past the rock. A road supervisor, with little regard
                    for local history, had Charley Burgeson break this rock into small particles
                    with dynamite a few years ago.
            Zachariah Cicott, who was born of an Indian mother and a French father, near
                    Independence, and lived to be an old man in the neighborhood where he was born,
                    led the Harrison army from the camp on the 
                        Wabash
                     near Cayuga to the Battleground. The men who made the advance guard
                    were under Dubois, the grandfather of the 
                        United States
                     senator of the same name from 
                        Idaho
                    .
         
         
         
            Reviews and Notes
            
               Travel and Description, 1765-1865; Vol. II, Bibliographical
                        Series, Vol. IX, Collection of the 
                            Illinois
                         State Historical Library, by SOLON JUSTUS BUCK, University
                    of 
                        Illinois
                    . Published by the Trustees of the 
                        Illinois
                     State Historical Library, 
                        Springfield
                    . pp. 514, 1914.
            Dr. Buck has gathered a list of county histories, atlasses, biographical
                    collections and a list of Territorial and State laws, as well as a descriptive
                    list of such books of travel and description as deal with 
                        Illinois
                     and its history under the head of "Travel and
                    Description." The author has 660 titles. The description of the books
                    are brief, averaging about four to the page. The full titles are given together
                    with a very brief note indicating the nature of the volume, the number of pages,
                    the date and place of first publication and the number and date of later
                    editions. By a system of key letters a number of libraries are also indicated
                    where the books may be found. The titles are arranged in chronological order,
                    beginning with 1765. An excellent index disarms any criticism of this
                    arrangement by those who might prefer an alphabetical arrangement. The question
                    of typography evidently was more troublesome and has not been so well handled.
            In the field of county histories there are 463 entries. Here the arrangement is
                    chronologically by counties. It is worth noting that no single library has as
                    many as half the complete list. In the introduction to this section, the author
                    has made some observations worth quoting. In discussing the incentive to such
                    work he says, p. 255:
            The great mass of county histories produced in the west during the last forty
                    years has been the work of business enterprises pure and simple–an
                    enterprise which finds its basis in human vanity; in the desire of the average
                    middle-class American to see his name in print and to be able to read in a book
                    glowing accounts of himself, his family,. and his neighbors, their virtues, and
                    their achievements.
            Concerning their historical value he says, p. 257:
            To the student with the critical ability, who knows what to accept and what to
                    reject, they have a very considerable value. The probability of error is
                    certainly no greater than in the Medieval Chronicles, and  much of the information which can be gleaned from
                    them and which might otherwise escape the investigator can be verified from the
                    more original sources to which they point the way.
            Again on page 257 he says:
            No historical library is doing its full duty which fails to collect and preserve,
                    so far as possible, all books of this sort relating to parts of the territory
                    which it attempts to cover. As time goes on and the people and conditions with
                    which these books deal fade away into the remote past and as the books
                    themselves become scarce and difficult to procure, the value of such a
                    collection will be more and more apparent.
            The last section is devoted to the Territorial and State laws. This part of the
                    bibliography has no special interest to Indiana readers after 1808, when the 
                        Illinois
                     Territory was set off from Indiana.
            The volume is very useful to Indianians since nearly all travelers who did 
                        Illinois
                     also included Indiana in their itineraries.
         
         
            
               Daniel Webster, by FREDERICK AUSTIN OGG, Ph. D., Associate Professor of
                    History in Simmons College, 
                        Boston
                    , and Author of Social Progress in Contemporary Europe,
                        The Government of Europe, Etc. 
                        Philadelphia
                    , George W. Jacobs & Company, pp. 433, 1914.
            DANIEL WEBSTER was chosen by Dr.
                    Oberholtzer, editor of the series called "The American Crisis
                    Biographies" as the subject for the nineteenth volume of the series.
                    Professor Van Tyne, of 
                        Michigan
                     University, had intended to write the volume but was compelled to
                    give it up. The design of the volume is to give a new, brief, popular version of
                    the story of Webster's life. Dr. Ogg has used only the easily
                    accessible materials contained in the Letters of Daniel
                    Webster published in 1902, and the eighteen volume edition of Webster's Writings and Speeches.- There is no pretense of any
                    search for new material, neither is there any new interpretations offered. As a
                    plain, straightforward chronological story it is very well done. It is an
                    interesting story all the way from the humble beginning in the New
                        Hampshire hills to the equally simple funeral at 
                        Marshfield
                    . The style of the author, though at times wordy, is usually plain
                    and dignified. There is no attempt at rhetorical display, though the subject is
                    one which easily lends itself to that kind of writing. A list of the chief
                    events in his life chronologically arranged takes the place of an introduction.
                    The book is neatly  made, has a good index
                    and sufficient foot-notes for ordinary high-school purposes. For popular use or
                    for high-school libraries it will be a useful little volume.
         
         
            
               Collections of the 
                            Nebraska
                         State Historical Society, Vol. 17, Edited by ALBERT WATKINS, Historian of the Society, 
                        Lincoln
                    , 
                        Nebraska
                    , pp. 381, 1913.
            There are twenty-five papers in the volume, eight of which deal with subjects
                    local to 
                        Nebraska
                    . There are six dealing with overland travel in the pioneer days,
                    "A Tragedy of the 
                        Oregon
                     Trail," by George W. Hansen; "The 
                        Oregon
                     Recruit Expedition," by Albert Watkins;
                    "Influence of Overland Travel on the Early Settlement of 
                        Nebraska
                    ," by H. G. Taylor; "First Steamboat Trial Trip Up
                    the 
                        Missouri
                    ," by Albert Watkins; "Adventures on the
                    Plains," by Dennis Farrell; "The Pathfinders," by
                    Heman C. Smith, are some of the titles. Besides these there are several papers
                    of a professional nature. A number of beautiful illustrations, taken chiefly
                    from Maximilian's Travels add to the attractiveness
                    of the volume.
            
               
                        Nebraska
                     is very fortunate in being able to thus gather up her early, or
                    pioneer, history from the lips of the pioneers themselves. No one who has not
                    compared such stories as those contained in this volume with the best that
                    historians can do can appreciate what is lost to history when the pioneers are
                    gone.
         
         
            THREE pamphlets, edited by THOMAS J. BROOKS, have lately been received by the Survey. One of these
                    is a biography of Lewis Brooks, colonel of the Eightieth Indiana Volunteer
                    Infantry. He was one of the early settlers of 
                        Martin county
                    , living first at Mount Pleasant and later at 
                        Loogootee
                    . His experiences as a merchant and flatboatman before the war are
                    suggestive.
            Another pamphlet of sixty-one pages contains the biographies of Thomas Jefferson
                    Brooks, 1805-1882, and his family. The family history begins in the old home in 
                        Massachusetts
                     in 1635 and extends down to the Indiana home in 1906. The old
                    Brooks home was in 
                        Mount Pleasant
                    , 
                        Martin county
                    . At this place it is the custom of the descendants of the pioneer
                    to gather occasionally in a family reunion. The third pamphlet, seventy-six
                    pages, contains a description of one of these reunions held August 7, 1908, at 
                        Mount Pleasant
                     by the Brooks and Houghton descendants.
            The pamphlets are full of interesting bits of pioneer history,  business customs, home life, schools, churches,
                    school teachers, and numerous other incidents of early development.
            
               German "Atrocities" and International Law is
                    the title of a sixteen-page pamphlet written by James G. McDonald, assistant
                    professor of European history in Indiana University. The article is one of a
                    series published by the Germanistic Society of 
                        Chicago
                     to cultivate a pro-German sentiment concerning the war now going on
                    in Europe.
            MAJOR GEORGE ADAMS is
                    the subject of a twenty-page biography written by George S. Katzenberger. It is
                    reprinted from the 
                  
                            Ohio
                         State Archaeological and Historical Society Publications.
                    Adams was a soldier under 
                        Wayne
                     and took part in the campaigns around 
                            Fort Wayne
                         in 1793-1795. The author has included in his biography a
                    good account of these campaigns. Portraits of General Harmar, General Wayne and
                    General St. Clair, together with several other illustrations are given.
            THE November Bulletin of DePauw University
                    contains a brief but circumstantial history of the university by Irving Frederic
                    Brown. DePauw, or Asbury as it was formerly called, opened its doors in
                    September, 1839. It was extremely fortunate in having as its first president
                    Bishop Matthew Simpson. His salary was placed at $800 per year.
                    Besides being president he was professor of mathematics and the natural
                    sciences. There were eleven students. The curriculum was considered a very
                    liberal one, especially for a church school. Emphasis was shifted just a little
                    from the classics in the direction of English, public speaking, and modern
                    history. The collegiate year was divided into two semesters of twenty-one weeks
                    each. The book is an excellent little monograph.
            "THE Recent Italian Elections" is the
                    subject of a paper by Dr. Amos S. Hershey, in the February American
                        Political Science Review. The writer, who witnessed some of the scenes,
                    was particularly interested in the working of the new election law under which
                    almost all Italian men are voters.
            ONE of the most interesting booklets that has appeared
                    recently in the field of Indiana history is Historic New
                    Harmony 1814-1914, by Nora C. Fretageot and W. V. Mangrum. This was the
                    official  guide to the town during the
                    recent centennial celebration. It has sixty-six pages and forty-seven
                    illustrations. The interesting sights, buildings and characters of the old town
                    are described and a brief biography of the leading persons given. For the facts
                    of 
                        New Harmony
                     history it is a valuable little book.
            THE
                    
                  
                            Iowa
                         Journal of History and Politics for October has several
                    articles of exceptional value, chief of which is the "Fur Trade
                    Operations in the 
                        Eastern Iowa
                     Country From 1800 to 1833," by Jacob Van der Zee. Writers
                    are giving considerable attention to the influence of the fur trade on the
                    settlement and early history of the western country. It furnished the ready
                    money to the first generation of settlers. Besides this the hunters and trappers
                    being the first in the field did the exploring and thus opened up routes to the
                    settlers, in large measure directing the line of settlement.
            THE
                    
                  Mississippi Valley Historical Review for
                    September contains articles by Milo M. Quaife, Wilbur H. Siebert, William O.
                    Scroggs, Isaac J. Clark and Dan E. Clark, all well-known to the historical
                    fraternity of the northwest. Dr. Quaife's article is a criticism on the
                    sources of western history. The writer has dealt especially with the travelers.
                    The article is a timely warning to those writers who have been using such books
                    freely as source material. Professor Cox continues along his familiar line of
                    the history of the Southwest.
            THE
                    History Teachers' Magazine for October has a brief
                    article by O. H. Williams on "The History Teacher as Viewed by the
                    History Student." The following quotation from the article is worth
                    keeping in mind at present when it seems that the "laying on"
                    of work constitutes the important function of the teacher: "To
                    cultivate a taste for historical reading, to create interest in the cultural and
                    humanistic aspects of history, to kindle a passion for the fascinating story of
                    human-kind, constitute far more vital educational results for the adolescent of
                    the secondary school than can come from mere drill."
            THE
                    
                  
                            North Carolina
                         Booklet for July contains three articles. The one that is
                    of most significance in a general way is "The State of 
                        Franklin
                    ," by Captain S. A. Ashe. The other articles are
                    "Heraldry and Its Usage in the Colony of 
                        North Carolina
                    ," by Mary  Hilliard
                    Hinton, and a genealogical biography of Sir Richard Ev-erard, by Marshall
                    DeLancey Haywood.
            THE
                    Magazine of History has in its February-March issue a number
                    of interesting pioneer sketches. Among them are "Pittsburg in 1828, as
                    Seen by Anne Royal"; "An Emigrant's Chances in 
                        New Hampshire
                    , 1821"; "Historic Natchez", and
                    "Lincoln's Route to 
                        Illinois
                     in 1830."
            THE
                    Records of the American Catholic Historical Society of 
                            Philadelphia
                        
                for September has a valuable contribution to western
                    history in an article on "The First Three Catholic Churches in 
                        Zanesville
                    ," 
                        Ohio
                    , by Robert J. J. Harkins. The oldest of these churches will reach
                    its century mark in 1818.
            THE
                    
                  
                            Missouri
                         Historical Review for July, 1914, contains Major Alphonso
                    Wetmore's "Diary of a Journey to Santa Fe in 1828."
                    Major Wetmore was a paymaster in the Sixth Regiment, 
                        United States
                     Infantry. While stationed in 
                        Missouri
                     he became interested in the Santa Fe trade, in which he later
                    engaged. The account is in the form of a diary and gives details of the trip
                    from day to day.
            THE
                    
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star during August published a series of articles by R. C.
                    Buley, of the history department of the Delphi high school, on the organization
                    of the Republican party in Indiana.
            THE Fowler Tribune, October 1, has an
                    article on the early history of 
                        Benton county
                     by Jesse S. Birch, formerly editor of the 
                        Oxford
                    
                    Gasctte. Mr. Birch is interested in 
                        Benton county
                     history. He has collected data for a county history.
            THE
                    
                        Princeton
                    
                    Clarion-News of September 24, 1914, contains another article
                    by Col. Gil Stormont on the political campaigns of 
                        Gibson county
                     during the Civil War. This article deals especially with the
                    political activities of the Sons of Liberty. In the October 27th issue the
                    subject is continued, the author discussing the campaign of 1864.
            THE Brownstown Banner, October 7, has a
                    four-column account of the Presbyterian church of that place which, at that
                    time, was celebrating its seventy-fifth anniversary. The 
                        New Albany
                     Presbytery, at its last meeting, took steps looking toward a
                    centennial  celebration of its establishment
                    in southern Indiana. As a result of this many of the individual congregations
                    are becoming interested in their own history. The article mentioned above has
                    some valuable historical material for the local history of 
                        Jackson county
                    .
            THE Winamac Democrat-Journal celebrated its
                    fifty-seventh birthday in August. It was founded in 1857 by Dr. F. B. Thomas and
                    H. P. Rowan. The present proprietor, M. H. Ingrim, bought it for
                    $500, February 16, 1865. It was then a six-column folio,. printed on
                    a Smith hand-press. The materials had been brought overland from Francesville,
                    where they had been shipped from the Ohio river over the
                    old 
                        New Albany
                     and 
                        Salem
                     railroad. The various editors have had some thrilling experiences
                    with drunken Pottawattomie Indians, as well as with the military officials in
                    Civil War times.
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
