
   ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 061, Issue 4, pages 283-415. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:061+issue:4+year:1965&browseMode=source
    
   ----FULL TEXT----
        
    
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
    
    
      
      
        A Look at Some Middle Western Gazetteers
        
          John T. Flanagan⋆
          
        
        When Ralph Leslie Rusk published his monumental study of the literature of the middle western
                    frontier in 1926, he attempted to survey everything written about and in the area northwest of the
                    river Ohio down to the year 1840. This goal led him inevitably to consider not only codes of law,
                    periodicals, schoolbooks, volumes of travel, histories, and beginnings of belletristic writing, but
                    also gazetteers. Indeed he listed a dozen such books, notably John Kilbourn's volume on 
            Ohio
          , John T. Blois's on 
            Michigan
          , John Scott's on Indiana, Al-phonso Wetmore's on 
            Missouri
          , and two volumes by John Mason Peck on 
            Illinois

          . Rusk remarked that these gazetteers were generally written by men familiar with the
                    western country and that because of their geographical limitations they were superior to volumes
                    which attempted to cover an entire region.1
        

        Twenty-four years after Rusk's book appeared, R. Carlyle Buley published a detailed and
                    informative study of the Old Northwest which won a Pulitzer Prize. Buley too listed several of the
                    old gazetteers, such as those by Kilbourn, Blois, and Peck, and observed that these books contained
                    a little history 
            
              ⋆ John T. Flanagan is professor of English at the
                            University of 
                Illinois, Urbana
              .
            
              1 Ralph Leslie Rusk, The Literature of the Middle Western
                                Frontier (2 vols., 
                New York

              , 1926), I, 129-30. Rusk provides a list of gazetteers in Volume II, 136-44.
                            Among the gazetteers devoted to regions rather than to states are Samuel R. Brown, The Western Gazetteer; or, Emigrant's Directory (
                Auburn
              , N.Y., 1817), and Robert Baird, View of the Valley of the 
                  Mississippi
                , or the Emigrant's and Traveller's Guide to the West (
                Philadelphia
              , 1832). Baird's book, perceptive and valuable, dealt with southern as
                            well as western states and included in Chapter X an excellent general survey of the
                            character of the western people based on long residence and extensive travel.
          
           although they were largely descriptive. But neither Rusk nor
                    Buley had much to say about the contents of the gazetteers cited.2 Both writers
                    implied—and this is a common assumption today—that because these volumes were
                    highly topical they quickly outlived their usefulness. I should like to look at a few of these old
                    gazetteers with a rather different purpose in mind. The modern reader who picks up these tattered
                    and foxed books will often find surprising if miscellaneous information which is not readily
                    available elsewhere; he will also be pleased by sprightly details about locations or settlers and
                    occasionally he will find an unexpectedly literary style.

        A gazetteer is defined most simply as a geographical dictionary, a book which gives descriptions of
                    places in alphabetical order. As the American frontier pushed westward, there was a great demand for
                    such books as convenient sources of information about generally unknown country. Gazetteers were
                    bought and read by a large number of people seeking vital data, by travelers, merchants,
                    administrators, clergymen, professional men, and most of all by prospective settlers. Morris
                    Birkbeck's Letters from 
              Illinois
            

           (1818) was hardly a conventional gazetteer, but it was widely read and
                    consulted by Englishmen who were thinking about emigrating to the Wabash Valley.3
        

        For the most part gazetteers followed a standard pattern. In an introduction or preface the author
                    described his qualifications for compiling such a book and cited his obligations to various
                    informants. Invariably he reported some personal contact with the state or territory described and
                    often that he had traveled through it extensively. He usually indicated also that he was familiar
                    with the accounts of earlier travelers, ranging from Charlevoix and Schoolcraft to Long, Carver, and
                    Beltrami. The author frequently cited correspondence with leading citizens of the region to confirm
                    factual statements and provided census figures. Generally a long and diffuse essay on military or
                    political history, as well as on the 
            
              2R. Carlyle Buley, The Old Northwest: Pioneer Period,
                                1815-1840 (2 vols., 
                Indianapolis
              , 1950), II, 555.
            
              3 Morris Birkbeck's Notes On a Journey in
                                America (
                Philadelphia
              , 1817) and his Letters from 
                  Illinois
                
               (
                Philadelphia

              , 1818) were reprinted several times although the author's motives in
                            writing them were sometimes suspect. See Rusk, Literature of the Middle Western
                                Frontier, 1, 125, 216.
          
           flora and fauna of the area, preceded the actual alphabetical
                    listings. Lewis C. Beck's A Gazetteer of the States of Illinois and 
              Missouri
            
           (1823), one of the best of the early gazetteers, supplied this kind of
                    information about both of the states with which he was concerned. The bulk of every gazetteer, of
                    course, consisted of a compilation of evidence about political divisions and geographical locations:
                    towns, townships, post offices, counties, rivers, creeks, lakes, prairies, mountains, mounds, and
                    swamps. For convenient reference this material was ordinarily given alphabetical arrangement.

        Historians today make little use of gazetteers for obvious reasons. The population figures, for
                    example, are obsolete and may be inaccurate. Geographical measurements, often made casually and
                    quickly, have been superseded by more precise mensuration. The enormous data about climate,
                    topography, wild animals, and even political organizations have little present-day value. Rare
                    allusions to early settlers probably interest only local historians. Nevertheless, many of the
                    gazetteers are still useful. Hamlets or villages which once seemed to have an optimistic future have
                    become ghost towns; some have disappeared entirely. Thus Sprinklesburgh, which John Scott listed in
                    his Indiana gazetteer of 1826, is unknown today. Two Minnesota communities, Sevastopol in Goodhue
                    County and Elliotta in Fillmore County, have completely vanished.4 Again, county
                    boundaries have altered and counties themselves have been divided or merged. St. Croix County in
                    western Wisconsin at one time stretched 130 miles from the Falls of the St. Croix River to La Pointe
                    on Madeline Island in Lake Superior and was 50 miles wide. But in 1845 its northern half was
                    detached and formed into La Pointe County, which itself extended to the source of the Mississippi
                    River and the Lake of the Woods.5 Ponds and lakes, once shimmering and alluring,
                    have dried up and are as unfamiliar to the present-day citizen as glacial Lake Agassiz. One might
                    have trouble today floating a canoe on streams once called navigable, such as Indiana's
                    Beanblossom Creek (except where it forms a reservoir in 
            Monroe County
          ), while seasonal droughts sometimes shrink 
            Illinois
          'Sangamon River to a pitiful flow. 
            
              4 Roy W. Meyer, "The Story of Forest Mills, a Midwest Milling
                            Community," Minnesota History, XXXV (March, 1956), 11-21.
            
              5 I. A. Lapham, 
                
                  Wisconsin
                : Its Geography and Topography (
                Milwaukee
              , 1846), 200.
          
           Wet prairies in southwestern Illinois have been drained and
                    made arable. And the origins of place names once familiar to every new settler have become lost in
                    the mists of time. It is true that such data can often be garnered from early newspapers or from the
                    reminiscences of old-timers, but the value of the gazetteers in this connection should not be
                    overlooked.
        There are also other values. The gazetteers supply population estimates and other statistics and they
                    include comment on the make-up of the local population in terms of regional or even racial origins.
                    Data on early church organizations frequently appear as well as information about the trades of some
                    of the first settlers. Land and commodity prices are given. Early, often sporadic, attempts to build
                    railroads or dig canals are referred to, and predictions of various kinds about the best crops to
                    grow are printed. The gazetteers may identify settlers whose names were unknown even to the first
                    local newspaper editors. If these books were reticent and unfortunately terse, the details they do
                    record can be fascinating.
        Among the early middle western gazetteers John Kil-bourn's The Ohio
                    Gazetteer, a volume of 166 pages published at 
            Columbus
           in 1816, was undoubtedly the most successful. By the time of the compiler's
                    death in 1831 ten editions had appeared, and an eleventh edition was published in 1833,
                    "Rev. and enl. by a citizen of 
            Columbus

          " to 512 pages. Fourteen thousand copies of the gazetteer were sold between
                    1826 and 1830.6 Kilbourn's Preface to the seventh edition states
                    effectively not only his own motive but the motives of other compilers of gazetteers: 

            Much solicitude has been evinced, and frequent enquiries made in the east, concerning this
                            state, respecting its extent, soil, climate, navigableness of its rivers, the relative
                            fertility, population, healthiness, and advantages and disadvantages of different districts
                            and sections of the country.7
            

           Kilbourn adds that no previous book of the kind had appeared in Ohio and that even the
                    contemporary population of the state would benefit from a systematic and accurate account of 
            
              6 William Coyle (ed.), Ohio Authors and Their Books (
                Cleveland
              , 1962), 358.
            
              7 John Kilbourn, The Ohio Gazetteer (7th ed., 
                Columbus
              , 1821), Preface.
          
           the commonwealth. His gazetteer proceeds alphabetically from
                    the town of 
            Aberdeen
           to the village of Zoar. The seventh edition credits 
            Cleveland
           with 606 people, identifies Sandusky as a lake port with two stores and a promising
                    future, and calls 
            Cincinnati
           a large commercial city of 10,000 people. 
            Akron
           and 
            Toledo
           did not exist in 1821. 
            Chillicothe
          , the original capital of 
            Ohio

          , once had "a towering semiglobular mound, a stupendous remain of
                    antiquity," in the middle of the town. But Kilbourn observes that "the owner or
                    owners, prefering [sic] the pecuniary value of the ground for building lots, to a
                    preservation of it as a curiosity, have removed it, for the purpose of erecting buildings on its
                        site."8 The compiler, incidentally, was quite conscious of the
                    richness of Ohio in Indian remains, and devotes part of his introductory section to comments on the
                    tumuli of varying shapes and sizes which then existed.
        Kilbourn tells little about the inhabitants of the various towns and rarely lists their occupations.
                    On the other hand, he carefully records place names or multiple names; thus the Portage River which
                    flows into Lake 
            Erie
           used to be called the Carrying River, and Sandusky was once known as 
            Portland
          . He indicates that the name Belpre was derived from the French words belle and prairie and claims that the combination (beautiful meadow) was
                    well suited to the location. Troubled by the usual difficulty of finding something distinctive to
                    say about each of his entries, Kilbourn resorts to cliches which he repeats endlessly: most streams
                    are "considerable," post towns are either "flourishing" or
                    "thriving," and townships are "populous" even when they
                    obviously were not. In contrast, the community of Tarlton in Pickaway County is described as
                    "a tolerably pleasantly situated village" and Old Woman's Creek as an
                    "inconsiderable stream" in Huron County. Some of the towns he
                    included—for example, Union or Shakerstown in 
            Warren County
           where the Shakers once held all property in common—have subsequently
                    disappeared from the map.
        When John T. Blois published his Gazetteer of the State of 
              Michigan

            , in Three Parts, in 1838, he apologized at some length not only for its delay
                    in publication but also for certain necessary omissions. He had hoped to give a complete account
                        
            
              8
              Ibid., 45.
          
           of the sales of public lands, a succinct judicial history, and
                    a tabulation of the geographical names derived from Indian terms. But his own personal indisposition
                    had postponed publication, and for some of his projects data were missing or could not be collected.
                    He felt that the absence of any such book about Michigan had already deterred settlers from choosing
                    that state for their residence. Many persons would have selected 
            Michigan
           "had her superior advantages been equally well known."9 Nevertheless, Blois's gazetteer is packed with solid information, much of which
                    retains interest today. His first part—210 pages, which comprise just over half the
                    book—surveys the topography, soil, climate, flora and fauna, rivers and lakes,
                    educational facilities, and internal improvements such as canals and railroads. Over thirty pages
                    are devoted to a summary of the state's history. The second part lists the counties in
                    alphabetical fashion and provides information about boundaries, soil, water, and political
                    organization. The third part is the familiar alphabetical tabulation of places and settlements,
                    including rivers, lakes, townships, and cities. Various appendixes supply information about banks,
                    agricultural production, and mileage between communities.
        Blois, like Kilbourn in his Ohio gazetteer, felt obliged to say something specific about each of the
                    items he listed and sometimes this compulsion taxed his ingenuity. Generally his identifications are
                    enthusiastic: rivers are navigable or important, harbors can be improved easily for future traffic,
                    towns invariably have bright futures. 
            Detroit

          , he reports, was the largest city in the young state (Michigan was admitted into the
                    federal union only a year before Blois published his gazetteer), and boasted almost ten thousand
                    people. It had "a healthy and beautiful location on the west bank of a strait" and
                    was "one of the most ancient settlements in North America."10
                    Yet Blois admits that the plan of the city was rather uncouth and ill-adapted to practical utility.
                    He points out, however, that three of the city's main avenues were two hundred feet wide
                    and that the authorities had begun to pave them with wood.11 In general, 
            Detroit
           had "a cheerful and comely appearance" and was attractive to the
                    immigrant.
        
          
            9 John T. Blois, Gazetteer of the State of 
                Michigan
              
             (
              Detroit
            , 1838), Introduction.
          
            10
            Ibid., 270, 272. The federal census of 1830 gives 
              Detroit
             2,222 people and 
              Wayne County
             4,559 people, for a total of 6,781. Blois's figure is obviously a bit
                        inflated although there may have been a large influx of settlers into the 
              Detroit
             region in the 1830's.
          
            11
            Ibid., 271-72.
        
        
        Other Michigan communities such as Grand Rapids, Flint, Niles, and 
            Kalamazoo
           are described as flourishing and important villages. On the other hand, Gull Creek is
                    termed a "trifling rivulet," Vance River a "trifling stream,"
                    Gun Lake merely a "collection of water," and various streams are dismissed as
                    "insignificant," "diminutive," or
                    "inconsiderable." Blois was only slightly concerned with the origins of place
                    names or even their variant spellings, yet could not resist giving an explanation of the meaning of
                    Manitou (which he defines as the residence of a spirit) or making a comment on the pronunciation of
                    Mackinac. He observes also that 
            Jackson
           had been called Jacksonopolis and Jacksonburg before it reached its truncated form, and
                    that 
            Monroe
          , settled by the French as early as 1776, was first called the River Raisin Settlement.
                    The number of lakes, rivers, and creeks named Portage provoked Blois to comment that the name was
                    apparently applied everywhere that bodies of water were fairly contiguous. Blois refrains from
                    identifying early figures in Michigan history whose names were commemorated in towns; Cassopolis
                    (still the county seat of 
            Cass County
          ), Tecumseh, Schoolcraft, and Pontiac are simply mentioned without comment. In 1838
                    Houghton did not exist.
        
          The Indiana Gazetteer of John Scott, an itinerant printer who came to Indiana in
                    1816, originally appeared in 1826 and is a slighter book than the Ohio and Michigan compilations.
                    Scott devotes 21 pages to introductory material, entitled "General Description of the State
                    of Indiana," and 112 pages to the alphabetical tabulation. In his Preface he gives the
                    usual reasons for his authorship of a gazetteer: 

            Indiana, although young, comparatively speaking, is not surpassed, in point of natural
                            advantages, by many of the older states; she is rapidly advancing in the great work of
                            internal improvement, in literature, the arts and sciences; and is destined to an important
                            post in the ranks of the Republic. To facilitate her march, and to give, not only to her own
                            citizens, but to those of the neighboring states, and emigrants generally, some idea of her
                            Soil, Climate, Population, and advantages of various kinds, are the primary objects of this
                                work.12
            

           The editor alludes to the heterogeneous character of the population of Indiana but observes
                    that the inhabitants are "affable, generous, and hospitable." Distinctions of rank
                    and social status were unknown.13
        
        
          
            12 John Scott, The Indiana Gazetteer, or Topographical
                            Dictionary (Centreville, Ind., 1826), Preface.
          
            13
            Ibid., 14.
        
        
        Scott lists townships, counties, and physical features in the usual way, praising settlements
                    liberally and providing a good deal of information succinctly. He locates counties with reference to
                    the state's boundaries or identifies them as interior counties. Villages are designated as
                    mill sites or post towns; county seats are identified as seats of justice. An interesting feature of
                    Scott's descriptions is his occasional enumeration of the occupations of the citizens, his
                    gazetteer differing radically in this respect from the books of Kilbourn and Blois. Thus the hundred
                    inhabitants of 
            Bloomfield
           in 
            Greene County
           included "2 carpenters, 2 cabinet-makers, 1 physician, &c."
                    Centreville in 
            Wayne County
           was twice as large and could boast of a wheelwright, a wagonmaker, two plasterers, a
                    tinner, a saddler, two blacksmiths, two cabinetmakers, two shoemakers, a millwright, five
                    carpenters, two bricklayers, a tailor, two tanners, three physicians, and three lawyers. The
                    population of 
            Salem
           in 
            Washington County

           was even more diversified, the 630 inhabitants including, in addition to the above,
                    such artisans as silversmiths, watchmakers, chairmakers, hatters, and a painter, while the buildings
                    housed groceries, taverns, looms, several manufactories, and a public library which contained 280
                        volumes.14
        
        The second edition of The Indiana Gazetteer, revised by James Scott, a former judge
                    of the Indiana Supreme Court, appeared in 1833. It retains the original format although it includes
                    much additional information. Thus 
            Bloomington
          , identified as the seat of justice of 
            Monroe County

           but deriving its importance "principally from its propinquity to the Indiana
                    college," is credited with some six hundred people; among them were "four
                    clergymen, three physicians, two lawyers, five teachers of common schools, eight merchants, and
                    about thirty artisans and mechanics of different descriptions."15
          
            Crawfordsville

           with about a hundred fewer persons still claimed "five physicians, five
                    lawyers, two preachers … besides artisans of almost all descriptions."16 It also included seven mercantile stores, a printing office, a federal land
                    office, and three taverns.
        
          
            14
            Ibid., 37, 41-42, 106.
          
            15
            The Indiana Gazetteer, or Topographical Dictionary (2nd ed., 
              Indianapolis
            , 1833), 38-39.
          
            16
            Ibid., 55.
        
        
        The population of 
            Indianapolis

           is estimated at about 1,600 and the variety of settlers who made their living in the
                    state capital is most impressive: "two tinners, a coppersmith, two silversmiths, two
                    chairmakers, two wheelwrights, two painters, two plasterers, seven blacksmiths, two gunsmiths, seven
                    or eight carpenters, five or six cabinet-makers, three hatters, four saddlers, five tailors, seven
                    shoemakers, five bricklayers, two butchers, and two or three bakers." Identified as
                    professional men are "four clergymen, six physicians, and sixteen lawyers."17
        

        One fascinating aspect of the gazetteer's census of occupations in all the Indiana towns is
                    the high percentage of physicians to the population, literally one to every hundred persons. This
                    ratio would suggest an alarming incidence of disease, a speculation which is confirmed by the
                    prefatory admission that fevers and agues often prevailed in Indiana because of the large amount of
                    marshy land and stagnant water. But a more likely explanation is that the term
                    "physician" denoted not a trained medical man but simply a person who had some
                    knowledge of pills and poultices, perhaps gained pragmatically. One suspects the presence of a large
                    number of "Indian doctors" among the early Hoosier settlers.18
        
        Both editions of The Indiana Gazetteer provide occasional information about
                    individual settlers but the details are sparse. It is noted that 
            Connersville
           in 
            Fayette County
           was named for John Conner and that extensive vineyards near 
            Vevay
           are the property of various gentlemen named Du Fours, Bateau, Morod, and Galay.19 John Work is identified as the original miller on Fourteen Mile Creek in 
            Clark County
          , John Sheets is referred to as the owner of a paper mill in 
            Jefferson County
          , and the discovery of silex deposits on the lands of David Pitman in 
            Harrison County
           is reported.20 Reference is made to the recent establishment of
                    Solon, a small post village in 
            Jennings County
          , by Solon Robinson.21 The settlement of Harmony is of course linked
                    with George Rapp and Robert Owen. On the other hand, miscellaneous 
            
              17
              Ibid., 92.
            
              18 For a detailed account of backwoods medicine see Madge E. Pickard
                            and R. Carlyle Buley, The Midwest Pioneer: His 
                  Ills
                , Cures, & Doctors (
                Crawfordsville
              , Ind., 1945).
            
              19 Scott, Indiana Gazetteer (1826), 44, 128.
            
              20
              Indiana Gazetteer (1833), 71 93, 83.
            
              21 Ibid., 161.
          
           details are both amusing and revealing. The towns of Paragon
                    and 
            Delphi
           were "laid off"; 
            Burlington
           was "laid out," but is not yet inhabited; Zenas is "a new
                    village and not far advanced in improvement"; 
            Clay County
           has "one church of Newlights or Unitarians"; and 
            Madison

           is praised because of its rapidly increasing number of houses, "mostly of
                    brick, many of which are three stories high, and constructed in the best style."22 One of the most disapproving descriptions concerns French Lick and its
                    mineral springs: the water is undeniably rich in chemicals but "is of a bluish colour, and
                    emits a very strong offensive odour, and is exceedingly loathsome."23
        
        The earliest important gazetteer of the Illinois country was the work of Lewis C. Beck, A Gazetteer of the States of Illinois and 
              Missouri
            . The scientific interests of Dr. Beck, a graduate of Union College, led him to
                    be more diligent in the assembling of data about the rocks, soils, water courses, minerals, and
                    plants of the area he concerned himself with than the other compilers of gazetteers had been, and he
                    also relied more fully on the works of previous travelers and explorers. His sense of obligation
                    impelled him to make frequent acknowledgments of the work of Schoolcraft, Brackenridge, and of John
                    Mason Peck, who settled in 
            St. Louis
           in 1817 and began to collect data long before he published his own guides to emigrants.
        Beck's gazetteer contains 353 pages, about equally divided between Illinois and 
            Missouri
          . His method is the same for each state. The initial geographical and statistical view
                    of the region is followed by an alphabetical listing of counties, towns, villages, rivers, creeks,
                    etc.—in the case of 
            Illinois
          , from Albion to York. The introductory essays, however, also contain important
                    observations on basic features of the topography. Beck's attention was attracted, for
                    example, by the fabulously rich American Bottom extending for a hundred miles along the east bank of
                    the Mississippi River from 
            Chester, Illinois
          , to 
            Alton

          . "No soil can exceed this in fertility," Beck writes, "many
                    parts of it having been under cultivation for more than a century, without the least apparent
                        deterioration."24 Beck noted the prevalence of miasma, however,
                        
            
              22
              Ibid., 50, 111.
            
              23
              Ibid., 74.
            
              24 Lewis C. Beck, A Gazetteer of the States of Illinois
                                and 
                  Missouri
                
               (
                Albany
              , N.Y., 1823), 13-14.
          
           and he declared that public health would not improve until
                    various stagnant ponds and lagoons had been drained. He also remarks on the peculiar properties of
                    the water where the Missouri and Mississippi rivers meet and the large amount
                    of sand held in suspension by the current below their confluence. Of the Mississippi River below
                    this junction he writes: 

            It is supposed by many that the water of this stream is medicinal, and hence it is very
                            common to see the old inhabitants drinking it daily, impregnated as it is with filth and
                            sand. When cleared and cooled with ice, it has a pleasant taste, without the rankness of the
                            Ohio or Illinois waters.25
            
          
        
        Beck indicates his strong support of internal improvements and advocates an 
            Illinois
          -Michigan canal. He also has much to say about prospective crops. Corn he describes as
                    the staple, but he thinks that cotton could be grown for home consumption. He claims that hemp was
                    indigenous and that both the soil and the climate of the two states favor tobacco. He asserts that
                    the slopes of the Ohio and Illinois valleys would be quite favorable to viticulture and remarks in
                    passing that wild horses were still prevalent in 
            Illinois
          .26 Beck's identification of settlements is terse but
                    specific. Of Cahokia's people he writes: "These preserve all their ancient manners
                    and customs; with few exceptions, are poor, indolent and illiterate."27
        

        No work dealing with the Middle West was more highly regarded by prospective settlers than the
                    emigrant's guide and the gazetteer of Illinois compiled by John Mason Peck, a Baptist
                    minister who devoted a lifetime to education and public service. His Guide for
                        Emigrants, originally published in 
            Boston
           in 1831, was reissued as A New Guide for Emigants to the West in
                    1836, 1837, and 1843, the later editions showing no substantial changes beyond the correction of
                    proofreading errors. The Gazetteer of 
              Illinois
            
           was published in 1834 by R. Goudy of 
            Jacksonville, Illinois
          , in
                    an edition of 4,200 copies, and a completely revised and amplified version appeared in 1837 under
                    the imprint of Grigg and Elliot, 
            Philadelphia
          .
        
          
            25
            Ibid., 15.
          
            26
            Ibid., 40.
          
            95
            Ibid., 95.
        
        
        Peck's statement in his Introduction to his New Guide for Emigrants well
                    defines his purpose in publishing such a volume: 
            no portion of this immense and interesting region, is so much the subject of inquiry, and so
                            particularly excites the attention of the emigrant, as the States of 
                Ohio
              , Indiana, 
                Illinois, Missouri
              , and 
                Michigan
              , with the adjacent territorial regions.28
            
          Since he was quite aware that a duodecimo of 381 pages could not begin to include all the
                    relevant or desirable information about the states of the Ohio Valley, he refers readers who need
                    additional data to the standard books of travel and to gazetteers for individual states. But he
                    claims that his volume will appeal to three classes of people: prospective settlers; travelers for
                    pleasure, health, or business; and readers eager to have an accessible and dependable reference book
                    about what he called the "Great West." Eighteen years of experience in the
                    Mississippi Valley, he thought, gave him a vantage point which he supported further by extensive
                    reference to the books produced by travelers.
        The brevity of Peck's emigrant's guide and its geographical scope make the ordinary
                    alphabetical tabulation impossible. Indeed he lists the counties for only two states (Indiana and 
            Illinois
          ), gives only brief descriptions of even the principal towns, and omits the usual
                    geographical data. On the other hand, he provides informative essays about the history, educational
                    institutions, manufactures, climate, and geography of the region, and often makes interesting
                    specific comments. In his enthusiasm for the western country Peck was second to no one. Cabbage
                    heads, he affirms, were often two or three feet in diameter. Beets surpassed twelve inches in
                    circumference and apples from 
            St. Clair County, Illinois

          , exceeded thirteen. Corn sometimes
                    yielded one hundred bushels to the acre. Hemp and cotton could be successfully cultivated. Peck
                    condemns farmers for their prejudice against clover and thinks they have been remiss in not erecting
                    barns to shelter crops and tools.29 But he has his own prejudices too,
                    undoubtedly reflecting his ministerial training. He is glad to observe a falling off in the
                    production of whiskey, and he 
            
              28 J. M. Peck, A New Guide for Emigrants to the West
                            (2nd ed., 
                Boston
              , 1837), Introduction.
            
              29
              Ibid., 278-79.
          
           hopes that "this branch of business, so decidedly
                    injurious to the morals and happiness of communities and individuals, will entirely
                        decline."30 He is equally opposed to tobacco although he states
                    with pride the fact that it could be raised successfully in his adopted state. "Tobacco," he writes, "though a filthy and noxious weed, which
                    no human being ought ever to use, can be produced in any quantity, and of the first quality, in 
            Illinois
          ."31
        
        For A Gazetteer of 
              Illinois
            

           Peck went to considerable trouble to verify his facts and to be as complete as
                    possible. He claims in his Introduction: "Accuracy of description, or a registry of facts
                    and things as they actually exist in every part of the state, has been a paramount
                        object."32 Peck interviewed men from every county of Illinois in
                    order to check data; in addition he resided in Vandalia (the capital of the state from 1820 to 1839)
                    during the winter of 1831-1832 for the purpose of searching all the legislative documents and
                    printed laws. The gazetteer had three parts: a general view of the state; a general view of each
                    county; and a particular view of "each town, settlement, stream, prairie, bottom, bluff,
                    etc." Peck incorporates into the Illinois gazetteer much of the general material of the
                    emigrant's guide, repeating many of the original statements about plants and manufactures
                    but revising and updating his information. On the other hand, he provides a fairly full description
                    of each county and, in the second edition of the gazetteer, devotes 168 pages to the geographical
                    tabulation of places. Towns getting special attention are 
            Alton, Kaskaskia
          , Shawneetown,
                    and Vandalia. Peck describes 
            Chicago

           as an incorporated city "beautifully situated on level ground," and
                    predicts it will shortly become the "emporium of trade and business for all the northern
                        country."33
        

        Peck was especially interested in place names. He often gives the etymology of names of French origin
                    (for example, Au Sable, Des Plaines River, Mauvaiseterre, Embarras River). Names which were
                    transliterations of aboriginal words 
            
              30
              Ibid., 293.
            
              31
              Ibid., 281.
            
              32 J. M. Peck, A Gazetteer of 
                  Illinois
                , In Three Parts (2nd ed., 
                Philadelphia
              , 1837), Introduction. Another Illinois handbook, Illinois in
                            1887, probably the work of Samuel A. Mitchell, was published in 
                Philadelphia
               in 1837; it is obviously based on Peck's work.
            
              33 Peck, Gazetteer of 
                  Illinois
                , 179-80.
          
           troubled him, but he tried to standardize them or to employ
                    established pronunciations and orthography. Peck also records alternative place names, some of which
                    have long since been lost to history. Thus, Job's Settlement in McDonough County was also
                    known as New Hope; Fountain Bluff in 
            Jackson County
           was called Big Hill; Grand Marais in 
            St. Clair County
           had the alternative name of Clear Lake; and Fever River in Jo 
            Daviess County
           was once known as Bean River. Occasionally Peck is not explicit where the reader would
                    appreciate additional information. He does not comment on the fact that Troublesome Creek was a
                    branch of Crooked Creek. Yet he is more careful than most compilers of gazetteers to link places
                    with celebrated citizens. He cites Dad Joe's Grove in 
            Putnam County
           as a settlement named after Joseph Smith, and identifies the place of Morris
                    Birkbeck's drowning; he explains the tradition that Starved Rock got its name from a band
                    of Illinois Indians who were marooned and eventually perished on its summit. Peck also notes his
                    indebtedness to previous writers and even borrows their place descriptions; his accounts of 
            Alton
           and 
            Peoria
           incorporate the identifications of Lewis C. Beck written a decade earlier.34
        
        Four years before statehood Wisconsin had a gazetteer, Increase Allen Lapham's A Geographical and Topographical History of 
              Wisconsin
            
           (1844), the first bound book printed in 
            Milwaukee
          . A "second edition, greatly improved" was published in 1846.
                    Lapham's purpose was the usual one of providing useful information for settlers and
                    recording data for future historians, and he fulfills his intention to the best of his abilities. A
                    long introductory essay of eighty pages sketches the history, geography, mineralogy, geology, and
                    internal improvements of the territory. Population and commercial statistics are provided. Lapham
                    then proceeds to describe the individual counties but on a rather peculiar plan. He first deals with
                    the six counties that touched on Lake 
            Michigan
          , then devotes seven pages to the lake itself, and eventually describes the interior and
                    the Mississippi River counties. The second edition of the gazetteer ends with accounts of the new
                    counties established in 1845 in the northwestern section of the territory. Since Lapham disregards
                    alphabetical order, his gazetteers are not adapted to quick reference, but the county descriptions
                    are short and compactly written.
        
          
            34
            Ibid., 149-50, 269-70.
        
        

        Lapham was interested in geographical nomenclature and not only gives variant names for rivers or
                    settlements but also comments on their origin. Thus the name Sheboygan, which he transliterates from
                    the Ojibwa word "Shawb-wa-way-gun," fascinates him. "The original Indian
                    name of this river it is almost impossible for any white man to pronounce, and its meaning is
                    'the river that comes out of the ground.' "35 He
                    identifies the Bad Axe River in 
            Crawford County
           as the scene of Black Hawk's final battle in 1832 and explains French names
                    such as 
            Prairie
           du Chien and the Trempealeau River ("la montagne qui trempe dans
                    "leau"). Lapham's scientific training—he later served as the
                    state geologist of 
            Wisconsin
          —led him to devote unusual attention to mineral formations and botanical
                    identifications. He also had the characteristic enthusiasm of all compilers of gazetteers for the
                    country he described. To him the salubrity of the climate, the purity of the atmosphere, the cool,
                    brief summer, and the dryness of the air in winter (he does not emphasize a fact in his own tables
                    that the minimum temperature at Fort Howard on Green Bay reached thirty-two degrees below zero)
                    conspire "to render Wisconsin one of the most healthy portions of the 
            United States
          ."36
        
        John Warren Hunt's Wisconsin Gazetteer, published at 
            Madison

           in 1853, is a more substantial volume than Lapham's book and includes
                    additional data. The compiler utilized the help of postmasters and legislators to supplement
                    Lapham's accounts. After some thirty pages of physical description, in which Hunt pays
                    special attention to the rapidly developing lumber industry, he devotes the core of his book to the
                    usual alphabetical list in which counties, towns, rivers, lakes, and post offices are juxtaposed.
                    Hunt makes no effort to discriminate his listings and seldom editorializes. Unique is his comment
                    that flagstones cut from the beautiful limestone produced in Fond du Lac County have "a
                    texture nearly as fine and compact as marble."37 But he is careful to
                    list the economic activities and the professional people in the important communities. Beaver Dam
                    had sawmills, oil mills, and flour mills, store buildings, churches, three hotels, and no less than
                    six doctors for some 1,500 people. Hunt's inventory is factual and objective; it is also
                    thorough. He lists the prairies (Bald, 
            Fountain
          , Heart, Liberty, Rising, Big 
            
              35 Lapham, 
                
                  Wisconsin
                : Its Geography and Topography, 102.
            
              36
              Ibid., 80.
            
              37 John Warren Hunt, Wisconsin Gazetteer (
                Madison
              , 1853), 90.
          
           Foot, Sun) and the mineral deposit "diggings"
                    (Beetown, Blue River, Fair Play, Nip-and-Tuck, and the inevitable Hardscrabble), most of which were
                    in 
            Grant County

          . Hunt records little history and seldom indulges in speculation. But he does predict
                    hesitantly that the Sheboygan County village of Quitquioc, a name which he says was originally
                    Manomonee and was not derived from a corruption of hie, haec, hoc, might
                    eventually become the Saratoga of 
            Wisconsin
          .38
        
        James S. Ritchie's Wisconsin and Its Resources, which originally appeared
                    in 1857 and had a revised third edition by 1858, is perhaps less a gazetteer than a descriptive
                    history, a commercial census, and the narrative of a tour. Ritchie was also greatly interested in
                    the Lake Superior littoral and devotes one hundred pages of his book to an account of the cities and
                    mineral resources of 
            Wisconsin
          's northern coast line. The compiler provides many facts about Wisconsin but
                    his enthusiasm generally overcame his desire to be informative; moreover, he could not repress his
                    liking for rhetorical effusions. Chapter Five of the second part of his volume is entitled
                    "The Early Settler of Lake Superior," and gives a composite picture of a happy
                    forest dweller and paterfamilias who has migrated from the eastern states to benefit from cheap
                    western land. The account suggests Chateaubriand's idyllic picture of life among the Indian
                    tribes of the lower 
            Mississippi
          .39
        
        The first books to deal with Iowa Territory are brief and inconsequential. John Plumbe's Sketches of Iowa and 
              Wisconsin
            , published at 
            St. Louis
           in 1839, and Isaac Galland's Iowa Emigrant, published at 
            Chillicothe

           in 1840, strive to give information in capsule form to prospective settlers and are
                    manifestly incomplete. Galland boasts that he had lived in Iowa fourteen years, but he seems more
                    interested in discussing the Indian tribes of the territory than in providing solid details about
                    the twenty-two counties that then existed.40 On the other hand, John B.
                    Newhall's Sketches of 
              Iowa
            , or the Emigrant's Guide, published by J. H. Colton at 
            New York
           in 
            
              38
              Ibid., 183.
            
              39 James S. Ritchie, Wisconsin and Its Resources (
                Philadelphia

              , 1858), 262-66. It is surprising that Lapham's gazetteer,
                            Hunt's gazetteer, and Ritchie's effusive tribute fail to achieve mention
                            in the American Guide Series volume, 
                
                  Wisconsin
                , A Guide to the Badger State (
                New York
              , 1941). The books are not mentioned in the bibliography and the
                            authors' names are not indexed.
            
              40 Isaac Galland, Galland's Iowa Emigrant
                                    (
                Chillicothe, Ohio
              , 1840), was reprinted at 
                Iowa City
               in 1949 in an edition of 3,500 copies with an introduction by William J.
                            Petersen.
          
           1841, devotes 252 pages to the kind of compilation of
                    geographical and economic facts that had made the gazetteers focused on the eastern side of the
                    Mississippi of signal value. Newhall is enthusiastic about the new territory; its rolling prairies,
                    its soil, its climate are alike admirable. His intention of course is to provide a brief and concise
                    description but he points out that the editor's task was difficult: 
            to know the people, their social condition, the arteries and impulses from
                            which they derive support, riches, and happiness, he must swim their creeks, penetrate their
                            forests, descend into the hidden recesses of their mines, eat the bread of their cornfields,
                            in short, share the fortunes of the humblest settler of the frontier cabin.41
            

           He succeeds, nevertheless, in dealing with the significant aspects of the area. A general
                    account of the geography and history of Iowa is followed by separate tabulations of counties and
                    towns. Fifty pages are devoted to minerals and ores, another fifty pages to Indian history and
                    antiquities. New-hall finds room for short essays about education, agriculture, and churches, and
                    concludes the book with useful information about mileage figures, routes, and population. Much of
                    the data of Newhall's Sketches, revised and updated, appeared in his
                    later volume, A Glimpse of Iowa in 1846, published in an edition of three thousand
                    copies in 
            Burlington, Iowa
          , by W. D. Skillman in the year of 
            Iowa
          's statehood.42
        

        The books by Nathan Howe Parker about Iowa and Minnesota are not true gazetteers although they reveal
                    some of the standard qualities. Iowa As It Is In 1855 was dedicated to the young
                    men of Iowa to whom was entrusted a sacred duty "to advance into an ever-expanding
                    prosperity the noble state whose helm they hold."43 Parker devotes nine
                    chapters to such subjects as 
            Iowa
          's history, climate, soil, geology, timber lands, rivers, and prairies. He also
                    discusses immigration and the stimulus given the increase of population by the building of the
                    railroads. Seven chapters deal with Iowa counties arranged in the usual alphabetical fashion. A long
                    chapter prints the constitution of 
            Iowa
          , and the volume closes with brief discussions of education, religion, and banking.
                    Parker's enthusiasm for Iowa recalls the tributes of other editors to the regions they were
                    defining:
        
          
            41 John B. Newhall, Sketches of 
                Iowa
              ; or, the Emigrant's Guide (
              New York
            , 1841), 6.
          
            42 William J. Petersen, Historical Introduction to John B. Newhall, A Glimpse of Iowa in 1876 (
              Iowa City
            , 1957), xv.
          
            43 N. H. Parker, Iowa As It Is In 1855: A Gazetteer for
                            Citizens, and a Hand-book for Immigrants (
              Chicago
            , 1855), Dedication.
        
        
        

          Her resources are inexhaustible, her advantages are beyond the scope of calculation, and her
                        claims upon the attention of every class and sex of the energetic, the industrious and the
                        ambitious, are as peremptory as they are vast.44
          
        
        
          The Minnesota Handbook, a slim volume of 159 pages published at 
            Boston

           in 1857, deals like Lapham's earlier book with a territory rather than a
                        state.45 The volume is essentially a travelogue since the author follows the
                            
            Mississippi, Minnesota
          , and St. Croix rivers and describes the towns en
                    route. Parker frequently utilizes the accounts of earlier travelers and is also indebted for data to
                    the editors of various territorial newspapers. The amount of space given to land offices and the
                    fact that he urges correspondents to address him care of certain land agents suggest that
                    Parker's purpose in compiling the Minnesota handbook—and possibly the Iowa book
                    as well—may have been partly commercial. Certainly the promotional tone is more obvious
                    here than in the volumes previously discussed.
        In many ways the Gazetteer of the State of 
              Missouri
            

           compiled by Alphonso Wetmore in 1837 is the most interesting and readable of
                    all the early middle western gazetteers precisely because it attempts to be considerably more than a
                    geographical handbook.46 In his introductory section Wetmore acknowledges his
                    debt to a lawyer named William M. Campbell, who had earlier embarked on a similar project but had
                    relinquished his data to Wetmore. The compiler remarks that he will not aim at mere description,
                    valuable as it might be; rather "it was deemed important to intersperse throughout the work
                    entertaining passages, for the purpose of relieving the reader from the monotony of narrative or the
                    sameness of descriptive detail." Sketches of frontier characters and Indian history,
                    Wetmore continues, "can in no way diminish the value of the production."47 But to substantiate his book he borrows freely from Beck, Schoolcraft, and
                    Brackenridge.

        The bulk of the Missouri gazetteer is conventional reporting. After Wetmore laments the lack of a
                    state-supported seminary of learning, a state-chartered bank, and adequate internal impovements, he
                    goes on to describe the water courses, the minerals, the animals and plants. With two great rivers
                    on their borders, Missourians were naturally conscious 
            
              44
              Ibid., Preface.
            
              45 N. H. Parker, The Minnesota Handbook, for 1856-57 (
                Boston
              , 1857).
            
              46 Alphonso Wetmore, Gazetteer of the State of 
                  Missouri
                
               (
                St. Louis
              , 1837). The book was published by Charles Keemle.
            
              47
              Ibid., Preface.
          
           of fluvial traffic, and though "the mad waters of
                    Missouri furnish a devious channel," Wetmore feels that Captain Shreve's ingenious
                    snag-boat had made steam transportation fairly safe.48 Wetmore envisions a state
                    population of from five to six million people, the higher figure being tied curiously to the
                    successful development of silk culture.49
        

        The compiler inserts bits of state history—such as the account of the New Madrid
                    earthquake in 1811-1812—wherever this is feasible. Exactly two hundred pages are devoted
                    to the familiar tabulation of counties, but settlements and place names are listed within the county
                    descriptions so that a reader without a geographical sense may have had difficulty in locating a
                    specific name. Wetmore inserts occasional remarks about natural phenomena; thus he claims that
                    "the Ozark Mountains are elevations of a reputable class."50
                    He is highly conscious of French place names in 
            Missouri
          , calling attention to Vide Poche, the old nom de nique of
                        Carondelet,51 and giving the English equivalents of such names as Roche
                    Percée Creek, Loutre River, Les Mamelles, and Big Bonne Femme River.

        Anecdotes of the frontier or bits of dialogue are also scattered through the gazetteer. In one such
                    episode a visitor in a certain locality expressed curiosity about the prevalence of rattlesnakes.
                    The reply was immediate: 

            There is a right smart sprinkle of snakes in these parts. I and my brother-in-law went out
                            snaking a few days ago, and we killed three hundred and fifty rattlesnakes, and two yearlin copperheads, and it warn't a very good morning for
                            snaking, neither.

           The visitor suggested that more favorable weather might produce a better haul. Again the
                    reply was quick: "Ye-s, we cords 'em up, sometimes."52
        

        In another incident a frontiersman who was also a state legislator had loaded his keelboat with salt
                    for the market. Rough water caused him to lose his cargo, but he reached shore safely and thanked a
                    housewife for hospitality: 

            I am a raal ring-tail painter, and I feed all my children on rattlesnake's hearts,
                            fried in painter's grease. There ar a heap of people that I would not wear crape
                            for if they was to die before their time; but your husband, marm, I allow,
                            has a soul as big as a courthouse
              53.
            
          
        
        
          
            48
            Ibid., 27, 34.
          
            49
            Ibid., 36.
          
            50
            Ibid., 26.
          
            51
            Ibid., 174.
          
            52
            Ibid., 158.
          
            53
            Ibid.. 90.
        
        
        Even the language of the main text reflects Wetmore's knowledge of frontier idiom and
                    evinces his desire to make his book colorful. A figure who is admired is called "a real
                    horse" of a man. Citizens of Independence in 
            Jackson County

           who disliked Mormons warned them to depart "or we'll row you up Salt
                    river!" A botanically unidentified plant called "rattlesnakes'
                    master" is proclaimed a sovereign remedy for snakebite if "properly applied and in
                    season." A colt destined for the race track is identified as "sired by
                    Chain-lightning, out of the celebrated full-blooded dam Earthquake."54
        
        Perhaps the really distinctive feature of Wetmore's gazetteer, however, results from his
                    decision to include six stories of western life in a seventy-page appendix. Two of them,
                    "Biography of Blackbird" and "Pawnee Sacrifice," relate to
                    Indian life. One, "The Village Gathering," describes the advent at a backwoods
                    hamlet of a moth-eaten circus or animal show, whose creatures included an elephant, a hyena, a
                    baboon, a dromedary, and a freshly painted zebra. "Annals of the Shop" introduces
                    Dr. Bibo Oxygen, the typical versatile frontiersman who was physician, justice of the peace, notary
                    public, postmaster, and politician simultaneously. "The Dead Husband" is the story
                    of a fugitive from justice. Best of all is "Sketch of Mountain Life," the
                    adventures of a hunter named Gall Buster whose biography epitomizes the frontier: "I was
                    raised in 
            North Carolina
          , got religion in 
            Tennessee
          , married in 
            Madison county
          , 
            Kentucky
          , and emigrated and settled in Missouri in 'early times.'
                        "55 Gall Buster is at times correct in his speech and at other
                    times drops into the vernacular; his language is sharply contrasted with that of Jonas Cutting, a
                    "downeaster" who is his companion on various expeditions. Gall Buster's
                    story is full of escapes from grizzly bears, quests for deer, and meetings with
                    "painters." But, like Natty Bumppo's reliable firearm, his gun Sweet-lips
                    never misses. These six tales not only contribute to the development of the American short story but
                    they add immeasurably to the richness and interest of Wetmore's gazetteer. No other
                    compiler of an American geographical handbook ventured so far afield in order to vary the content
                    and style of his volume.

        It remains to supply some biographical data about the compilers of these gazetteers which emigrants,
                    prospective 
            
              54
              Ibid., 97, 159, 284.
            
              55
              Ibid., 307.
          
           settlers, and readers interested in the Middle West found so
                    important in the first half of the nineteenth century. John Kilbourn (1787-1831), originally from
                    Connecticut and a graduate of the University of 
            Vermont
          , taught school at Worthington, 
            Ohio
          , in 1810, and after 1815 was a newspaper editor and book publisher in 
            Columbus
          . John T. Blois (1809-1886) was a civil engineer from Connecticut who established
                    residence in 
            Detroit
           in 1836 and subsequently practiced law in Jonesville, 
            Michigan
          . He served as register of deeds and justice of the peace in Jonesville. John Scott
                    (1793-1838) was a Pennsylvanian who came to Indiana as a printer, founded a newspaper first in 
            Franklin County
           and then in 
            Cass County
          , published several books, and died at 
            Logansport
          . James Scott, employed by the 
            Indianapolis
           publishing firm of Douglas and Maguire to revise the original Indiana
                        Gazetteer, can be identified only as a quondam judge of the Indiana Supreme Court. John
                    Mason Peck (1789-1858), born in 
            Connecticut
          , was ordained a Baptist minister in 1813 and removed to 
            St. Louis
           four years later as a missionary. In 1832 he established his residence at Rock Spring, 
            Illinois
          , where he farmed as well as preached, and for the rest of his life was involved in both
                    education and religious journalism. Peck was instrumental in the founding of Shurtleff College in
                            
            Alton, Illinois
          . Lewis Caleb Beck (1798-1853) was a New Yorker, a graduate in
                    medicine from Union College, a specialist in both botany and chemistry. He was subsequently a
                    professor of chemistry at Rutgers. Increase Allen Lapham (1811-1875), born at Palmyra, 
            New York
          , had little formal education but acquired a mastery of natural science by diligent
                    study. He moved to 
            Milwaukee
           in 1836 and devoted himself to the botany, conchology, and geology of the area. From
                    1873 to 1875 he served as state geologist of 
            Wisconsin
          . John B. Newhall (died 1849) was born in Massachusetts and became one of the best known
                    citizens of Iowa during territorial days; he died of cholera at Independence, 
            Missouri
          . Nathan Howe Parker (dates unknown) was a journalist and land agent who published
                    gazetteers of 
            Missouri, Kansas
          , and Nebraska besides his books on Iowa and 
            Minnesota
          . At one time he identified himself as a resident of 
            Clinton, Iowa
          . Alphonso
                    Wetmore (1793-1849) was born in 
            Connecticut
          , had little schooling, and served in the War of 1812; he lost an arm in a Canadian
                    engagement and later was named paymaster of the Sixth Infantry. In Missouri he resided at 
            Franklin
           but  traveled widely throughout the state. In 1833
                    he resigned his federal appointment, removed to 
            St. Louis
          , practiced law there, and was copublisher of a literary newspaper, the Missouri Saturday News. His play The Pedlar: A Farce in Three Acts,
                    published at 
            St. Louis

           in 1821, reveals as much interest in Missouri local color as does his gazetteer. Like
                    Newhall, he died of cholera. It will be noticed that virtually all of these men were New Englanders.
                    Several were college graduates but for the most part they were self-educated, often with a natural
                    bent toward science. Lured westward by various factors, they resided in the regions of their choice
                    and most of them died there, Dr. Beck being a conspicuous exception.56
        

        Their gazetteers were based on the hard strata of personal experience, supplemented by extensive
                    travel, interviews, correspondence, and diligent reading of the available records. They consistently
                    strove for accuracy and completeness. They tried to make their books as substantial, as factual, as
                    reliable as they could, regardless of the fact that the extraordinary growth of the Middle West
                    between 1815 and 1850 soon made their tabulations obsolescent. Personal prejudices are not absent
                    from their accounts, but a century later the most subjective works are often the most interesting.
                    Because of the conscientiousness of the compilers, because of their shrewdness and diversified
                    backgrounds, their books still have value and interest. As the editor of a modern reprint of John
                    Scott's Indiana book recently observed, Scott's gazetteer had omissions and
                    errors. "But underneath he has left a solid core of good history."57
        
        
          
            56 For sketches of Lewis C. Beck, I. A. Lapham, and John M. Peck, see Concise Dictionary of American Biography (
              New York
            , 1964). For Kilbourn, see Coyle, Ohio Authors and Their Books,
                        358. For Blois, see Historical Collections Made by the Pioneer Society of the State
                            of 
                Michigan
              

             …, Vol. XI (Lansing, 1888), 42-43. For Scott, see Gayle
                        Thornbrough's Introduction to the reprint of John Scott's The
                            Indiana Gazetteer, or Topographical Dictionary (Indiana Historical Society
                        Publications, Vol. 18, No. 1; 
              Indianapolis
            , 1954). For Newhall, see Petersen's Historical Introduction to A Glimpse of Iowa in 1846. For Wetmore, see Kate L. Gregg, "Major
                        Alphonso Wetmore," Missouri Historical Review, XXXV (April, 1941),
                        385-93; also Scott C. Osborn's Introduction to the reprint of The
                        Pedlar published as Keepsake No. 2 by the University of Kentucky Library
                        Associates at 
              Lexington, Kentucky
            , 1955. Significant biographical data about
                        Nathan Howe Parker, John Warren Hunt, and James S. Ritchie have not been located.
          
            57 Thornbrough, Introduction to Scott, Indiana Gazetteer
                        (1954), 16.
        
      
      
      
        The 
            Vincennes
           Library Company:
        A Cultural Institution in Pioneer Indiana
        
          Edited by J. Robert Constantine⋆
          
        
        Among the voluntary associations with which his name is connected, none was a matter of greater pride
                    to Benjamin 
            Franklin

          –nor of greater significance in American cultural and intellectual
                    history–than that which resulted from his proposal "to render the benefit from
                    books more common by commencing a public subscription library."1 The
                    plan, which 
            Franklin

           and other members of his club, the Junto, put into effect in 1730, set up a group of
                    subscribers or shareholders who agreed to pay an initial fee and an annual contribution for the
                    privilege of borrowing books purchased with these common funds.2 While 
            Franklin
           did not originate the idea of the social library,3 he recognized
                    the need for such an agency as a means of solving the problems which in 1730 confronted people in 
            Philadelphia
           who loved to read: books were scarce; there was "not a good
                    bookseller's shop in any of the Colonies to the southward of 
            Boston
          "; little money was available for the purchase of books; and it was necessary
                    to send to 
            England
           for books.4
          
            Franklin

          's library "soon manifested its utility, was imitated by other towns
                    and in other provinces."5 By 
            
              ⋆ J. Robert Constantine is professor of history at Indiana
                            State University, 
                Terre Haute
              . The minutes of the 
                Vincennes
               Library Company which follow are reproduced from a photocopy of the original
                            minute book. A brief article on the 
                Vincennes
               Library Company is Jane Kitchell, "The Old '
                Vincennes
               Library,'" Indiana Magazine of History,
                            XXVIII (December, 1932), 240-46.
            
              1 Max Farrand (ed.), The Autobiography of Benjamin 
                  Franklin
                
               (
                Berkeley
              , 1949), 96.
            
              2
              Ibid.
            
            
              3 What 
                Franklin

               termed a "public subscription library" would probably be
                            described more accurately as a common- or joint-stock social library, which was the form
                            taken by most of the libraries established in America during the colonial period.
                            Subscription libraries, which required only an annual, monthly, or per-book assessment, did
                            not come into general use until the 1800's. Jesse H. Shera, Foundations of the Public Library: The Origins of the Public Library Movement in New 
                  England
                , 1629-1855 (
                Chicago

              , 1949), 32, 34. For a discussion of the origins, form, and economic background
                            of the social library, see ibid., 54-126; C. Seymour Thompson, Evolution of the American Public Library, 1653-1876 (
                Washington
              , D.C., 1952), 41-65.
            
              4 Farrand, Autobiography of Benjamin 
                  Franklin
                
              , 95.
            
              5
              Ibid., 96.
          
           the end of the colonial period, either in imitation of 
            Franklin

          's idea or through familiarity with similar contemporary English institutions,
                    over sixty other American communities had founded social libraries.6
        

        The dislocations caused by the American Revolution operated with special severity upon the holdings,
                    memberships, and funds of most of the social libraries established during the preceding generation,
                    but the years following the war witnessed not only the restoration of those which had declined
                    during the war but a rapid increase in the number of towns and cities supporting such libraries.7 Thus, as Americans moved west at the turn of the nineteenth century, a common
                    parcel in their intellectual baggage was a familiarity with and confidence in the cooperative method
                    of accumulating books and the funds for purchasing them.8
        
        The founding of the 
            Vincennes

           Library Company in July, 1806, was one of the earliest parts of what became a pattern
                    of western urban settlement: the inclination of migrating easterners to reproduce in the West, as
                    soon as possible, the cultural institutions familiar to them in their native states.9 The earliest members of the company–most of whom came to 
            Vincennes
           between 1790 and 1815–had doubtless known similar organizations in
                            
            Virginia, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, New York
          , or other eastern states, and those
                    among them who enjoyed reading found many of the same problems which had inspired 
            Franklin
          's proposal to the Junto in 1730.
        
          
            6 Shera, Foundations of the Public Library, 54-57; Louis
                        B. Wright, The Cultural Life of the American Colonies, 1607-1763 (
              New York
            , 1957), 148-50. Wright lists the following among the outstanding social libraries
                        established in the 1700's: Library Company of 
              Philadelphia
             (1731), Redwood Library at 
              Newport
            , E. I. (1747), 
              Charleston
             Library Society in 
              South Carolina
             (1748), 
              New York
             Society Library (1754).
          
            7 Merle Curti, The Growth of American Thought (3rd ed., 
              New York
            , 1964), 126-27; Shera, Foundations of the Public Library, 69-70;
                        Thompson, Evolution of the American Public Library, 1653-1876, p. 55.
          
            8 Richard C. Wade, The Urban Frontier: The Rise of Western
                            Cities (
              Cambridge
            , Mass., 1959), 139-42.
          
            9 Thompson, Evolution of the American Public Library,
                            1653-1876, p. 55. In addition to noting the library at 
              Vincennes
            , Thompson reports libraries formed at Belpre, 
              Ohio
             (1795), 
              Cincinnati
             (1802), Ames (1804), 
              Dayton
             (1805), and in other pioneer communities. Wade, Urban Frontier,
                        254, indicates a library company was formed at 
              Lexington
             in 1796 and at 
              Pittsburgh
             in 1800. R. Carlyle Buley, The Old Northwest: Pioneer Period,
                            1815-1840 (2 vols., 
              Indianapolis
            , 1950), II, 565-67, states: "Practically every town of 1,000 to 1,500
                        population had or had tried to have a subscription library by 1840."
        
        
        
          
            Vincennes

           in 1806 was a frontier settlement with fewer than seven hundred American, French, and
                    Indian residents,10 but in certain respects it was an exceptional town. From the
                    establishment of Indiana Territory in 1800, 
            Vincennes
           had served as territorial capital and meeting place of the territorial legislature and
                    General Court and had attracted visitors from a wide area. The presence there of a public land
                    office and a military post and the designation of 
            Vincennes

           as a place for issuing supplies to the Indians brought economic advantages. Because of
                    its location "on the great leading route of western emigration," the town had
                    developed from a French trading post to a center for settlers migrating westward. Its location on
                    the major navigable river in Indiana made it the most important commercial town in the territory.11
        
        Such factors apparently helped attract to 
            Vincennes
           a disproportionately large number of men with business and professional ambitions.12 And, with some notable exceptions, it was chiefly such men who established in 
            Vincennes

           its principal cultural institutions. Elihu Stout, printer to the territorial
                    government, provided the town with its first newspaper, the Indiana Gazette
                    (1804), later the Western Sun, which was filled with political, governmental, and
                    mercantile information and, not infrequently, with long excerpts from favorite eighteenth century
                    English poetry and essays. The year the 
            Vincennes
           Library Company was chartered witnessed also the incorporation of 
            Vincennes
           University whose grammar school was opened in a handsome two-story brick building 
            
              10 The official census of 1800 gives 714 as the population of 
                Vincennes
              . Clarence Edwin Carter (ed.), The Territorial Papers of the 
                  United States
                
              , Vol. VII, The Territory of Indiana, 1800-1816 (
                Washington
              , D.C., 1939), 24. Ten years later the population had declined^ to 670. Aggregate amount of each description of Persons within the 
                  United States
                 of America, and the Territories thereof … in the year 1810 ([
                Washington
              , D.C., 1811]), 86. John Scott, The Indiana Gazetteer, or
                                Topographical Dictionary (Centreville, Ind., 1826), 129-30, gives the population of 
                Vincennes
               in 1792 as 1500, "principally French," and reports that in
                            1826 it contained "upwards of 2000, being the most populous town in the
                            state."
            
              11
              
                Vincennes
              
              Western Sun, February 16, 1822; Lee Burns, "Life in 
                Old Vincennes
              " (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol.
                            VIII, No. 9; 
                Indianapolis
              , 1929), 460.
            
              12 Burns, "Life in 
                Old Vincennes
              ," 445. A study of available biographical information for individuals
                            whose names appear in the library company's minutes and of items published in the 
                Vincennes
              
              Western Sun during the early period of the library company's
                            development indicates that in this respect 
                Vincennes
               was somewhat unusual.
          
           in 1811. By 1812 the major religious denominations had been
                    established in the settlement and before Indiana entered the Union the 
            Vincennes

           Theatrical Society had been organized (1814) and, within a few years, had performed or
                    sponsored the performance of such current hits as John Bull; 'Tis All A Farce;
                        Speed The Plough; and The Jew, or a School for Christians.
          13
        

        The launching of all these cultural enterprises within a single decade is particularly impressive
                    when it is recalled that it was the achievement not of a cultured leisure class but of a group of
                    men scrambling for political preferment and financial success. At the same time they were
                    cooperating to promote the establishment of various organizations, they were apt to be on opposing
                    sides of bitter controversies over such issues as permitting slavery in the territory, the Burr
                    Conspiracy, the creation of Illinois Territory, and the relocation of the Indiana territorial
                    capital, and were also compelled to deal with the problems of Indian resistance and the frightening
                    and costly Indian warfare in the War of 1812.14
        
        The 
            Vincennes
           Library Company was in many respects the most interesting of the social and cultural
                    agencies founded in 
            Vincennes

           prior to Indiana statehood. The organizational meeting of the company was held July 20,
                    1806, and on December 3, 1806, the governor signed the act of the territorial legislature granting
                    its charter of incorporation.15 In this and subsequent issues the Indiana Magazine of History will publish the minutes of the directors' and
                    shareholders' meetings which spanned three quarters of the nineteenth century, the last
                    meeting, on February 5, 1883, preceding by three months the sale of the library company's
                    books and bookcases to 
            Vincennes
           University for $190.00.16 The relatively early date of
                    the founding of the 
            Vincennes
           Library 
            
              13
              
                Vincennes
              
              Western Sun, November 14, 1818; October 23, 1819; June 3, 1820.
            
              14 For a general discussion of some of these problems, see John D.
                            Barnhart, Valley of Democracy: The Frontier versus the Plantation in the Ohio
                                Valley, 1775-1818 (
                Bloomington
              , Ind., 1953), 161-77. The 
                Vincennes
              
              Western Sun is a valuable source of information on activities in 
                Vincennes
              .
            
              15 Francis S. Philbrick (ed.), The Laws of Indiana
                                Territory, 1801-1809 (Collections of the Illinois State Historical Library, Vol.
                            XXI; 
                Springfield

              , 111., 1930), 202-03. No explanation has been found for another act granting a
                            charter of incorporation on the same terms which was passed by the territorial legislature
                            and signed by the governor on September 17, 1807. Ibid., 547-48.
            
              16 Minutes of the meeting of the board of trustees of 
                Vincennes
               University, May 22, 1883. 
                Vincennes
               University Archives.
          
           Company and the extended period of its operation make the
                    library records significant.17
        
        The leadership of the 
            Vincennes
           Library Company was provided by men of the upper classes. The organizational meeting
                    was presided over by the territorial governor, William Henry Harrison, and its minutes were kept by
                    Benjamin Parke, then attorney general of the territory. Parke later served the company as librarian
                    (1806-1808) and president (1809-1822). Prior to the Civil War presidents of the company also
                    included John Badollet, register of the land office, friend of Albert Gallatin, and member of the
                    Indiana Constitutional Convention in 1816; Isaac 
            Blackford
          , member of the Indiana Supreme Court and of the 
            United States
           Court of Claims; John Law, judge on the 
            United States
           Court of Claims and 
            United States
           congressman; and Samuel Judah, an attorney of statewide renown who successfully carried
                    to the 
            United States
           Supreme Court a 
            Vincennes

           University case against the state of Indiana. The office of librarian, which was filled
                    by election at the annual shareholders' meetings, was held by locally prominent political
                    leaders, attorneys, merchants, physicians, publishers, educators, and ministers. The men who served
                    in the position were commonly reelected for several terms and, from entries in the minute book, it
                    seems clear that the company was blessed by a succession of dedicated men.18
        

        Among the shareholders in the library company a much broader spectrum of vocational interests was
                    represented. 
            
              17 In addition to the photostat copy of the minute book of the 
                Vincennes
               Library Company, the editor also has in his possession photocopies of a partial
                            circulation record covering the years 1835-1841; two reports from the committee on books for
                            1808 and 1809; an undated manuscript catalogue of the company's books, probably
                            compiled in the late 1830's; and a shareholder record which names 97 original
                            subscribers, their dates of subscription (August 2, 1806, to February 7, 1831), the number
                            of shares purchased by each, and, where applicable, the names of the persons to whom shares
                            were transferred, the date of such transfers, or notations of forfeiture. Unfortunately, the
                            numerous other committee reports, the circulation records (except the partial record noted
                            above), and the other documents mentioned in the minutes have not been found.
            
              18 The obituary notice of librarian John Cleves Symmes Harrison states
                            that "had it not been aided by his constant and untiring exertions … the
                            Library Company of this place would have deteriorated and probably have been
                            dissolved." As librarian from 1823 to 1830, Harrison's "only
                            reward was the satisfaction of sustaining the first, and probably the best institution of
                            the kind in the state." 
                Vincennes
              
              Gazette, November 13, 1830.
          
           Excluding the half-dozen individuals whose identity has not
                    been established, it is possible to associate the shareholders with their major vocational interests
                    and to conclude that, despite the $5.00 price per share (raised to $8.00 in
                    1812 and to $12.00 in 1856)19 and the annual dues, the library
                    company was democratically oriented. In addition to some 15 physicians, 20 lawyers, 10 printers
                    (including the editors of three of the newspapers published in 
            Vincennes

           during the antebellum era), 6 ministers, 8 teachers, and more than 40 merchants and
                    manufacturers (general store operators, druggists, tavern keepers, realtors, a hat factory owner, a
                    steam mill owner, auction and commission agents, and owners and operators of a "tin and
                    sheet iron manufactory," a mill, an "improved steam distillery," and a
                    ferry boat service), shares in the company were held by 20 farmers,20 a
                    scrivener, a surveyor, a barber, a wide variety of artisans (carpenters, blacksmiths, a
                    cabinetmaker, a chairmaker, a brick and stone mason, a tailor, a bookbinder, a gunsmith), and an
                    equally great variety of government officials, militia officers, and officers of the regular army of
                    the 
            United States
           stationed at 
            Vincennes
           during the War of 1812.
        Over the years access to the 
            Vincennes
           Library Company's holdings was extended to nonmembers by offering free use to
                    members of the territorial legislature in 1813, to the clergy of 
            Vincennes
           in 1860, and to the teachers and officers of 
            Vincennes
           University in 1871.21 Moreover, in 1823, changes in the
                    organization's regulations made it possible for non-members to use the library's
                    facilities by paying a three-dollar "use fee," and for members to lend their share
                    privileges to nonmembers.22 In 1832, the company further liberalized its policy
                    by adopting what was essentially a rental library system in which nonmembers could borrow books upon
                    payment 
            
              19 Minutes of the 
                Vincennes
               Library Company, August 2, 1806; February 3, 1812; July 13, 1856. Hereafter
                            cited as Minutes.
            
              20 The designation "farmer" is taken from
                            contemporary statements of the chief occupations of these individuals,
                            obtained–as was information about the occupations of other
                            shareholders–from the files of the 
                Vincennes
              
              Western Sun, the 
                Vincennes
              
              Gazette, and other contemporary accounts. Doubtless many who also engaged
                            in farming were not listed as farmers in obituary notices or advertisements of produce for
                            sale.
            
              21 Minutes, February 1, 1813; February 6, 1860; February 6, 1871.
            
              22
              Ibid., February 15 and 24, 1823.
          
           of a fee of fifty cents for one book a month and twenty-five
                    cents for one book a week.23
        
        The most valuable index to the actual use of the library is an incomplete circulation book. Its
                    thirty-four pages contain entries for 1835-1841 and provide the only available record of the use of
                    the library. This circulation record seems to confirm the conclusion that while the library company
                    tended to be controlled by the business and professional men, membership and use were open to all
                    groups and individuals. Thus, in 1836-1837, withdrawals were made by editors and printers Elihu
                    Stout, R. Y. Caddington, and Samuel Hill; by lawyers and judges Abner T. Ellis, Benjamin M. Thomas,
                    Samuel Judah, and Isaac 
            Blackford
          ; by physicians Joseph Somes, John D. Woolverton, and Nicholas Troost; and by a dozen
                    merchants, ministers, and teachers. At the same time, among the patrons of the library were men like
                    blacksmith Henry Wheeler, who withdrew 75 books between February, 1838, and April, 1841; John B.
                    Martin, a tailor; Thomas Bishop, a carpenter; Samuel Emison, a miller; and a dozen farmers, one of
                    whom, George R. Gibson, ranked along with Stout, 
            Blackford

          , Judah, and Wheeler as one of the library's most frequent patrons during the
                    period covered by the circulation book.24
        
        The 
            Vincennes

           Library Company charter, constitution, and bylaws placed the responsibility for general
                    policy making and for the routine operation of the library room upon the president and
                    seven–later five25–directors, a librarian, and, beginning
                    in 1838, a treasurer and three standing committees on "finance, books, and Library room and
                        furniture."26 At the annual meetings of the company, set by the
                    charter on the first Monday in February and regularly announced 
            
              23
              Ibid., February 6, 1832. Most of the social libraries apparently had
                            provisions for nonmembers to use their collections. For example, in 1816 the bylaws of the
                            Circulating Library Society of 
                Cincinnati

               provided that nonmembers could use the library by paying one sixteenth of the
                            value of each book they took out and making a deposit of twice the value of the volume, or
                            quadruple its value if it was part of a set. Systematic Catalogue of Books
                                Belonging to the Circulating Library Society of 
                  Cincinnati
                 . . . (
                Cincinnati
              , 1816), 12.
            
              24 It would be interesting to note which kinds of books were borrowed
                            by various members, but since the circulation record was kept by book numbers and these
                            numbers apparently were changed from time to time as the library was reorganized and
                            recatalogued it is not possible to determine which sets of book numbers were used in this
                            record.
            
              25 Minutes, February 4, 1811.
            
              26
              Ibid., April 17, 1838.
          
           in the January issues of the local papers, the shareholders
                    elected the president, directors, and librarian. The president and board of directors administered
                    the rules of the company; made new rules, subject to change by the next shareholders'
                    annual meeting; selected books to be added to the library and arranged for their purchase, care, and
                    circulation.

        The minutes of the board meetings include lists of books accepted in lieu of cash payments for
                        shares,27 books given to the library,28 and books
                    purchased or recommended for purchase. The minutes do not, however, provide much information on how
                    books were selected beyond indicating that this responsibility was exercised by the board as a whole
                    until the 1830's, when a committee on book selection was appointed. This was made a
                    standing committee of the board in 1838.29 Occasionally the librarian purchased
                    books and then secured board approval at a subsequent meeting.30 That the
                    board's selections pleased at least one resident of 
            Vincennes

           is evident from the following comment on the library: "Much of its prosperity
                    is owing to the present directors, whose zeal for the diffusion of knowledge, whose taste for
                    science, and whose literary attainments are a sufficient guarantee for a good selection of books,
                    and a useful management of the funds."31 While it is not possible to
                    determine how specific titles were chosen, the minutes do record a variety of sources from which
                    selections could be made. Catalogues were requested from and orders placed with booksellers in
                            
            Boston, Baltimore, New York
          , and 
            Philadelphia
          ,32 and later some purchases were made in 
            
              27 See, for example, Minutes, August 23, 30, and September 13, 1806.
            
              28 In addition to buying shares with books, many of the initial
                            shareholders also donated volumes to the library. Perhaps the largest of these donations was
                            John Badollet's bequest of more than sixty volumes, mostly French works on natural
                            philosophy, recorded in the minutes of October 6, 1838. Government documents given to the
                            library by representatives in Congress are recorded in the minutes of February 5, 1849, and
                            February 1, 1852.
            
              29
              Ibid., October 15, 1833; February 11, 1837; April 11, 1838.
            
              30 See, for example, ibid., July 3, 1813.
            
              31
              
                Vincennes
              
              Western Sun, December 30, 1837. The backgrounds of members of that board
                            of directors–several of whom also served on the 
                Vincennes
               University board—bears out this faith in their ability to develop a
                            good book collection. Abner T. Ellis had graduated from 
                Brown
              , John Law from Yale, and John Badollet attended the College and Academy of
                                    
                Geneva, Switzerland
              .
            
              32 See Minutes, November 5, 1808; June 9, 1809; January 16, 1811; July
                            6, 1814; July 6, 1815; December 26, 1815.
          
          
          
            Louisville
          .33 The Western Sun and the Gazette regularly carried advertisements of bookstores and publishing houses, and in 1814
                    Elihu Stout announced plans to open a "reading room" in the Western
                        Sun office where he would have copies of the country's major newspapers in which
                    there were similar advertisements. In 1848 the library board acquired Bohn's famous "
            Guinea
           catalog,"34 but it is not possible to estimate its effect
                    on book selection since no record has been found of the books added to the library after that date.
        In purchasing books, a common procedure followed by the board–especially during the
                    company's early years–was to authorize residents planning a trip to
                            
            Baltimore, Washington
          , or 
            Philadelphia

           to buy books from dealers in one of those cities. Thus, on January 16, 1811, the board
                    moved "That Mr. Geo. Wallace be authorised and requested to purchase in Phila. the books
                    above mentioned to the amount of one hundred and fifty dollars, beginning at the head of the
                    list." The books purchased as a result of this authorization were produced by Wallace at a
                    special meeting of the board in May, 1811.85 The lapse of four months before the
                    books arrived at 
            Vincennes

           doubtless resulted from the transportation problems of the period. An account in the
                        Western Sun indicates that until the 1820's "most of the
                    goods sold in 
            Vincennes
           were bought in 
            Baltimore
           and 
            Philadelphia
          , wagoned to 
            Pittsburgh
          , and shipped down the Ohio to 
            Louisville
           or 
            Evansville
          , thence wagoned to the place of destination."36
        
        
          
            33
            Ibid., November 13, 1827; February 12, 1831.
          
            34 Henry G. Bonn, A Catalogue of Books (
              London

            , 1841). Minutes, February 5, 1849. It is conceivable–but not
                        demonstrable–that a board member or a shareholder in the library company may have
                        been familiar with Thaddeus Mason Harris' A Selected Catalogue of Some of
                            the Most Esteemed Publications in the English Language Proper to Form a Social Library With
                            an Introduction Upon the Choice of Books (
              Boston

            , 1793), since this pamphlet containing 277 titles was widely distributed by its
                        publisher to encourage orders from libraries. Shera, Foundations of the Public
                            Library, 112-14; Thompson, Evolution of the American Public Library,
                            1653-1876, p. 59.
          
            35 See Minutes, January 16, 19, and May, 1811, for details of this first
                        major book purchase.
          
            36
            
              Vincennes
            
            Western Sun, January 24, 1868. A series of articles, which began in that issue
                        and continued in the issues published on February 9 and 23, 1872, traced the development of
                        transportation as it affected 
              Vincennes
             from the 1820's to the completion of a railroad network composed of the 
              Evansville
             and 
              Crawfordsville
             in 1855, the Ohio and Mississippi in 1857, the 
              Indianapolis
             and 
              Vincennes
             in 1869, and the 
              Vincennes

             and Cairo in 1872. For a description of early transportation in that area, see
                        Buley, Old Northwest, I, 445, 451-52, 460-64, 490-518 passim.
          
        
        
        John Badollet, describing the route from 
            Louisville
          , termed it "a mere briddle path, originally opened by General Clarke [the 
            Buffalo
           Trace], which leads from the falls [at 
            Louisville
          ] to the seat of Government [
            Vincennes
          ] and deters numbers of people from moving to this territory."37 By the end of the period covered in this installment of the library company's
                    minutes 
            Vincennes
           was connected by primitive roads with both 
            Louisville
           and 
            Cincinnati
          , and a visitor to the town noted that 
            Vincennes
           merchants "procure 
            New Orleans
           goods at 
            Louisville
          " and that "Beer and Porter are
                    brought from the breweries in 
            Cincinnati
          ."38 Mail delivery was still irregular, as Elihu
                    Stout's frequent laments in the Western Sun indicate, and a regular
                    stagecoach schedule between 
            Vincennes
           and "the falls" was not established until 1821.39
                    The introduction of the steamboat on the western rivers greatly improved 
            Vincennes
          ' transportation position and the arrival of the first one in 182240 opened an important era in the city's growth as a commercial and
                    mercantile center on the 
            Wabash

          . Thereafter the local papers regularly listed the schedule of arrivals and departures
                    of steamboats.41
        
        The first books acquired included relatively few works of fiction, and the first list selected for
                    purchase by the board–38 titles listed in the minutes of January 16 and 19,
                    1811–was comprised chiefly of histories, biographies, and travel accounts, belles-lettres
                    being represented only by the works of Pope and 
            Milton
          , Akenside's The Pleasures of Imagination, Homer's
                        Iliad and Odyssey, and Telemachus. In
                    August, 1813, the collection included 426 volumes valued by the board of directors at slightly less
                    than $800.42 A decade later the collection had been enlarged to 1,080
                    volumes valued at nearly $2,300.43 By the 1820's the board
                    had added a number of 
            
              37 John Badollet to Albert Gallatin, January 1, 1806. Gayle
                            Thornbrough (ed.), The Correspondence of John Badollet and Albert Gallatin,
                                1804.-1836 (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. 22; 
                Indianapolis
              , 1963), 62.
            
              38 David Thomas, Travels through the western country in
                                the Summer of 1816, [1819], reprinted in Harlow Lindley (ed.), Indiana
                                as Seen by Early Travelers (Indiana Historical Collections, [Vol. 3]; 
                Indianapolis
              , 1916), 104.
            
              39
              
                Vincennes
              
              Western Sun, April 7, 1821.
            
              40 Joseph H. V. Somes, 
                
                  Old Vincennes
                : The History of a Famous Old Town and Its Glorious Past (
                New York
              , 1962), 188.
            
              41 In 1836 a total of 800 boats loaded and/or unloaded cargo at the
                            city's docks. Cauthorn, History of 
                  Vincennes
                
              , 145.
            
              42 Minutes, August 7, 1813.
            
              43
              Ibid., February 19, 1823.
          
           Scott's novels and other works of fiction and also had
                    purchased many of the "self-help" books (for example, books on health, chemistry,
                    animal husbandry–particularly the care of sheep–and farming and military
                    guides) which were to become popular throughout the nation during the antebellum period.

        The board authorized the preparation of catalogues of the library's book collection at
                    meetings in January and June, 1807, and in March, 1808, but the first printed list of holdings that
                    has been found appeared in the Western Sun on April 6, 1808. With the exception of
                    two or three substitutions made after the list was printed, it contains the first 210 volumes
                    recorded in the minutes of August 7, 1809. Although the minutes report that printed catalogues were
                    prepared at frequent intervals,44 the only one that has been located is A Catalogue of the 
              Vincennes
             Library with the Charter and Constitution Prefixed, printed by R. Y.
                    Caddington at 
            Vincennes

           in 1838. The books are listed in subject groupings: History, 70 titles; Lives and
                    Memoirs, 65; Voyages and Travels, 82; Law, Politics and Commerce, 36; Education, Moral Philosophy
                    and Metaphysics, 25; Theology, 33; Natural History, Philosophy, Chemistry, Arts, Mechanics, and
                    Agriculture, 31; Poetry and Plays, 35; Tales, Novels and Romances, 175; Miscellaneous, 86;
                    Geography, 2; Periodicals, 8; Donations, 27. By this time the total number of volumes in the library
                    exceeded 1,600.45 It was essentially this collection of books which was
                    described in a letter to the 
            Vincennes
          
          Western Sun, December 30, 1837, as "unquestionably the best miscellaneous
                    library west of the Alleghany mountains." The writer reported that he had "seen a
                    great number of public libraries on this and the other side of the Atlantic, but he never saw a
                    better selection of books than there are to be found here."

        While the selection and acquisition of books were major responsibilities of the president and board
                    of directors, they were by no means their only ones. Many of their proceedings 
            
              44 See, for example, ibid., February 5, 1810; August
                            7, 1813; June 22, 1814. The first reference to a catalogue arranged by subjects appears in
                                ibid., December 1, 1819.
            
              45 Among the periodicals are the Edinburgh Review,
                                Niles' Weekly Register, Annual Register, North American Review, and 39
                            volumes of American State Papers for the First through the Eighteenth
                            Congress contributed by Waller Taylor, an early member of the company and one of the first 
                United States
               Senators from Indiana.
          
           dealt with fiscal problems: conducting an unsuccessful lottery
                    designed to raise $1,000 "for the purchase of books";46 bringing suits–a charter power–against members who refused to pay for
                    damaged or lost books or for their shares and annual dues;47 holding a public
                    auction of the library's duplicate books;48 formally accepting gifts of
                    books and "curiosities."49 A recurring problem was that of
                    finding space to house the library, and at various times it was located in the homes or offices of
                    librarians, in a room in the Town Hall, and finally in the 
            Vincennes
           University building.

        The execution of board policy was largely delegated to the librarian who served without pay until
                    1840, when the board authorized an annual remuneration of $4.00. This was raised to
                    $5.00 a year in 1848, to $8.00 in 1852, and in 1859 to a share in the company
                    which was worth $12.00 at the time.50 These
                    "salaries" seem modest indeed when it is considered that the position was usually
                    filled by men of substantial affairs who had to find time for keeping records of books purchased,
                    withdrawals and returns, books damaged and lost, fines imposed and collected, and who, in addition,
                    catalogued the books, collected annual dues and payments for shares, and maintained the record of
                    current membership in the company. Maintaining an up-to-date roster of the company was frequently
                    complicated by the policy which permitted bona fide members to lend their shares
                    to non-members and by the fact that shares were transferable by sale, as gifts, through wills, or
                    even at public auction.51 The 
            
              46 Minutes, November 24, 1810.
            
              47
              Ibid., April 2, 1808. On this particular occasion one member was reported
                            to have "positively refused to pay either his original Subscription Money or the
                            two annuel [sic] contributions now due."
            
              48
              Ibid., February 18, 1832.
            
              49
              Ibid., August 30, 1806. That interest in obtaining items relating to
                            natural history continued is indicated by the reference in the minutes of February 11, 1837,
                            to correspondence with naturalist Charles Alexander Lesueur of 
                New Harmony
               regarding identification of "the Fossil Bones now in the
                            Library" and requesting "any duplicate specimens" he may wish to
                            donate.
            
              50
              Ibid., March 7, 1840; February 7, 1848; 1852; February 7, 1859.
            
              51 William Henry Harrison's share, for example, was
                            originally purchased in 1806, was transferred to his son, John Cleves Symmes Harrison, in
                            1825, was then returned to the future President at the time of his son's death in
                            1830, and finally was forfeited when President Harrison died in 1841. John D. Woolverton
                            purchased a share in February, 1831; on January 24, 1835, the 
                Vincennes
              
              Gazette announced that "one share in the 
                Vincennes
               Library … part of Dr. Woolverton's estate" would
                            be sold at auction; the share finally was forfeited in February, 1840.
          
           success of the 
            Vincennes
           Library Company depended in large measure upon the performance of the board and the
                    librarians. Many shareholders also demonstrated their dedication by accepting assignments on the
                    three standing committees on finance, books, and library furniture and room, and on special
                    committees charged with such responsibilities as auditing the treasurer's reports or
                    procuring natural history specimens.
        The installment of the minutes of the 
            Vincennes

           Library Company which follows covers the period from the organizational meeting of July
                    20, 1806, to the regular board meeting preceding the shareholders' annual meeting of
                    February, 1817. The men who served as officers and on the committees of the company during that
                    period are seen successfully dealing with the problems common–and usually
                    destructive– to social libraries in the early nineteenth century, and with the added
                    problems brought on by the War of 1812. A writer in the Western Sun of April 6,
                    1808, referring to the etablish-ment of the library, noted: "considering all the
                    circumstances of difficulty in which the attempt was made, its success has equalled the most
                    sanguine expectations of its patrons." The writer's optimism was based on some
                    encouraging statistics: by April, 1808, the company's "transfer book"
                    listed forty shareholders, half a dozen of whom owned two shares each, and in March, 1809, a special
                    committee reported that during the previous year $80.6114 had been collected in
                    "fines and dues" and $80.59 had been spent on the purchase and
                    transportation costs of books.52
        

        The early vitality of the institution suggested by such evidence is further revealed by the fact that
                    the War of 1812 and the Indian trouble which preceded it merely retarded rather than killed the
                    library company. The impact of the war on the company was felt in several ways. For example, between
                    August, 1806, and February, 1812, 54 shares in the company were sold, but between February, 1812,
                    and December, 1814, only three shares were sold. It seems more than possible that the Indian menace
                    and the military crisis had some relationship to the fact that in 1811 five of ten and in 1812 five
                    of nine board meetings were adjourned for lack of a quorum, and that there were no meetings held
                    between July 6, 1814, and December 4, 1815. However, by 
            
              52 The original report is reproduced on page 347.
          
           the end of the period covered in this first installment of the
                    minutes the library company had resumed its regular shareholders' and directors'
                    meetings and its purchases of books. That it had survived for a decade and was intact when Indiana
                    was admitted to the Union was an impressive testimony to its utility. During the next few years the
                    library showed rapid growth. In the period from December, 1815, to August, 1820, the company nearly
                    doubled its membership by adding 35 shareholders, many of whom settled in 
            Vincennes
           during the postwar migration from the Atlantic states. During this same period the
                    company's book holdings increased from just over 600 in February, 1817, to 970 in April,
                    1820.

        Following its brief revival, the company's progress from 1820 to 1823 tends to validate the
                    conclusion that "the fortunes of the social library movement were reflections of the
                    undulations in economic activity from the middle of the eighteenth century to the middle of the
                    nineteenth" and that they were "so directly dependent upon the day-to-day incomes
                    of their members that they reacted as delicate barometers of economic activity."53 Thus, the Panic of 1819 and the depression which followed became an economic
                    disaster for the West in general and, if a contemporary analysis can be trusted, for 
            Vincennes
          , in particular.54 That the "hard times" of the
                    early 1820's again temporarily stunted the growth of the library company is suggested by
                    its failure to add a single new member from August 9, 1820, to April 12, 1823; by the acquisition of
                    less than one hundred books during the same period, and by the board's preoccupation with
                    either instituting suits for the collection of dues or granting the remission of fines imposed for
                    failure to pay annual dues.55
        
        The use of February 5, 1883, as the terminal date of the 
            Vincennes

           Library Company is somewhat misleading. The surviving evidence indicates that the
                    effective terminal date of the company's history should, in fact, be placed forward by
                    about three decades. No meetings of the board or shareholders are recorded between February 4, 1861,
                    and March 4, 1871, or between the latter date and February 5, 1883, and the 
            
              53 Shera, Foundations of the Public Library, 85.
            
              54
              
                Vincennes
              
              Western Sun, February 16, 1822.
            
              55 Minutes, February 5, 1821.
          
           last announcement of a shareholders' annual meeting
                    that has been found appeared in the 
            Vincennes
          
          Western Sun on February 1, 1861. From the minute book, the remnant of the
                    circulation book, and the list of shareholders, and from contemporary newspaper comment it is
                    possible to trace the history of the company from the economic crisis of the early 1820's
                    through a period of recovery during the latter part of that decade to an era of renewed vigor in the
                    1830's. This strength was evident in the attendance at annual meetings, the regularity of
                    board meetings, and the increase in the company's book holdings. The anonymous writer who
                    praised the company's book collection was also gratified "to see how liberally
                    this library is supported by the city of 
            Vincennes
          , and even by its vicinity."56 Five years later the 
            Vincennes
          
          Gazette notified its readers that "this valuable institution …
                    now contains nearly 1,600 well selected volumes .. . purchased at a cost of over
                    $2,500.00." In the same issue the editor of the Gazette, R. Y.
                    Caddington–who had just become a member of the library company–wrote that
                    "an institution like this is important ... in a community of free and enlightened people
                    where every citizen hopes, and has a right to expect, to see his children capable of holding public
                    office, and becoming not only useful but prominent men."57
        

        Despite this ringing Jacksonian rationale for supporting the library company (from the editor of the
                    Whig Gazette), the common destiny of such institutions during the middle decades
                    of the nineteenth century–decline and disappearance or absorption by other types of
                        libraries58–seemed foreshadowed in the minutes of the company.
                    The annual shareholders' meeting continued to be held except in 1854 and 1855, officers
                    were elected and committees appointed, and locally prominent men continued to serve the
                    organization. The number of board meetings gradually declined, however, to the point that none were
                    held in 1849, 1850, 1851, 1852, or 1860, and 1847 was the last year in which a sizeable number of
                    books– 40 volumes–were purchased.58 At the annual meeting
                    of 
            
              56
              
                Vincennes
              
              Western Sun, December 30, 1837.
            
              57
              
                Vincennes
              
              Gazette, February 12, 1842.
            
              58 Shera, Foundations of the Public Library, 75-78.
            
              59 Minutes, February, 1847.
          
           February 4, 1861, four shareholders were present to carry out
                    the ritual of electing eight officers (a president, five directors, a treasurer, and a librarian)
                    and to pass a resolution instructing "the Treasurer ... to collect all outstanding
                    dues."

        A full decade passed before the shareholders met again. This lapse of time might lead one to conclude
                    that the library company was a casualty of the Civil War, but such a conclusion would ignore the
                    fact that in the North the war tended to stimulate the growth of cultural agencies in general and of
                    libraries in particular.60 The local newspapers carried no notice of the
                    shareholders' annual meeting in 1871. More significant than this omission, however, are the
                    announcements that do appear in the papers: "the McClure Library is now in
                    circulation"; the "Library and Lecture Association" had held its
                    "opening performance" of music and "original papers"; the
                    Workingmen's Institute planned a meeting; the "Moral and Social Reading Room is
                    open" and plans had been made to "develop a fund for the purchase of books by
                    giving concerts and pleasing entertainments."61
        
        The 
            Vincennes
           Library Company ceased to exist in 1883, and its collection was transferred to 
            Vincennes
           University. There is a certain historical propriety in the final absorption of the
                    company's holdings by the university: both institutions were chartered by the territorial
                    legislature in 1806; many of the same men were founders and active supporters of both; both had to
                    adapt their operations to the pecularities of the frontier; both had been sensitive to steps in the
                    evolution of 
            Vincennes
           from an isolated, frontier settlement to a city of nearly 8,000 people62 engaged in trade and commerce and the beginnings of industrialization; and both had
                    represented, in their respective ways, stages in the development of an American democratic culture.
                    By the 1860's the 
            Vincennes
           Library Company had served two generations of readers, and, by that time, other
                    agencies of culture were available to them.
        
          
            60 Curti, Growth of American Thought, 453-57.
          
            61 See, for example, 
              Vincennes
            
            Western Sun, December 9, 1870; April 28, June 3, July 21, 1871; March 29,
                        1872. See also W. E. Henry (comp.), Municipal and Institutional Libraries of
                            Indiana ([
              Indianapolis
            ], 1904), 111-12, for additional information on the Maclure libraries and
                        Workingmen's institutes.
          
            62 Hubert 
              Madison
             Smith, Historical Sketches of 
                Old Vincennes
              
             (
              Vincennes
            , Ind., 1902), 273.
        
        
        Minutes of Meeting of First Library Board1
        
        First Meeting July 20 1806
        At a meeting of a number of the citizens of 
            Vincennes
           and its Vicinity at Mr. [John D.] Hays2 Inn on the 20th July 1806
                    who were desirous to promote the formation of a circulating Library, Governor [William Henry]
                    Harrison was called to the chair and Benjamin Parke appointed Secretary.

        Doer. [Samuel] McKee offered to the consideration of the meeting the form of a constitution for a
                    Library company, which being read, upon a motion made and seconded it was Resolved, That an
                    agreement should be entered into by such as would subscribe thereto, to engage each to the other to
                    comply with such rules and regulations as a majority of the 
            
              1 In editing these minutes every effort has been made to reproduce
                            faithfully the spelling and capitalization of the handwritten document. The spacing of the
                            original minutes has been somewhat modified and standardized. For example, space limitations
                            have prompted the listing of members present at a meeting, results of elections, and books
                            recommended for purchase in series instead of the columns which usually appear in the
                            minutes. Paragraphs have been indented consistently even though in the document many were
                            not indented. Frequently items of business–especially motions and
                            resolutions–were recorded on separate successively indented lines; these have
                            been reproduced in standard paragraph form. The openings and closings of minutes and
                            locations of headings also have been standardized. Punctuation has been reproduced as it
                            appeared with the following exceptions: periods have been added where necessary at the ends
                            of paragraphs and after abbreviations and initials; commas and semicolons have been added
                            when columns of names are reproduced in series; a colon has been added after the word
                            "present" preceding each list of members attending a meeting and
                            occasionally where it would clarify the intent of the secretary; decimal points have been
                            inserted where they were missing in prices; and hyphens have been used consistently between
                            inclusive numbers in lists of numbered books. Flourishes have been omitted or translated as
                            periods; underlining of signatures, dates, and the like has been considered a flourish
                            except where it clearly indicates italics. Raised letters have been brought down to the
                            line. Unintentional repetitions of words or phrases have been omitted, as have marks in the
                            margins and words, phrases, or subtotals used in making transitions from one page to the
                            next in the original minutes.
            
              2 No attempt has been made to give biographical data on individuals
                            whose names appear in these minutes beyond adding in brackets where necessary the first time
                            a name appears any missing names or initials and the commonly accepted spelling.
          
           said subscribers should finally adopt for the government of the
                    said Company.
        on a motion made and seconded it was ordered That, John Badollet, John Johnson Doer. McKee, Doer.
                    [Elias] McNamee and John R[ice] Jones be a committee to prepare the form of a Constitution for the
                    said Company.
        Ordered, That the said committee do make report at the next meeting of the said citizens and then the
                    meeting adjourned to the second day of August next at three oClock in the afternoon.
        August 2nd 1806
        The citizens, subscribers, Viz., Govr. Harrison J. R. Jones, John Badollet, R[obert] Buntin, Henry 
            Vanderburgh
          , Doer. McKee, Doer. McName B[enjamin] Beckes, W[illiam] Bullitt, H[enry] Hurst, J. D.
                    Hay, A[lbert] Badollet, D[aniel] Smith, Thomas Jones, P[eter] Jones, Col. [Francis] Vigo and B.
                    Parke met according to the adjournment of the 20th ult.
        Govr. Harrison in the chair.
        B. Parke Secretary.
        Mr. J. Badollet, chairman of the Committee appointed for the purpose reported a draught of a
                    constitution for the Library Company which was read and immediately taken into consideration and
                    being variously amended was finally agreed to as follows, Viz.,
        Rules and regulations for the government of the Vin-cennes Library Company
        art. 1. There shall be one hundred shares at five dollars each, payable in specie or in such books as
                    the President & Directors, to be appointed as hereafter mentioned, shall judge proper for
                    admission and at such President and Directors appreciated value, each share holder shall annually
                    pay two Dollars on each share he holds.

        " 2. There shall be a general meeting of the share holders on the first Monday in February
                    yearly, when they shall take into consideration the general interests of the Company and elect the
                    necessary officers. No determinate  number of share holders
                    shall be necessary to form a quorum to proceed to business; each holder shall have a vote for every
                    share he holds & pays for and shall have a right to vote by proxy; but no special meeting of
                    the subscribers shall have power to do business unless one fourth of the whole number of shares are
                    represented. In case a general meeting shall not be held on the stated day, the officers then acting
                    shall continue their functions untill the next general meeting.
        " 3. A President and seven Directors and a Librarian shall be appointed annually at the
                    general meeting; the President & Directors shall hold a meeting on the first Saturday in
                    every month; it shall be their duty to carry into effect all such rules and regulations as may be
                    adopted by the Society; they shall have power to make bye laws for the well government of the
                    Society which shall be in force untill the next annual meeting and afterwards unless rejected or
                    disagreed to at such meeting, for which purpose all the bye laws made by such President &
                    Directors shall be laid before the Succeeding annual meeting for their approbation or rejection. The
                    President and Directors shall judge of the fitness of books offered in payment of shares and shall
                    cause to be purchased at the cheapest rates all such books, maps &c. as they may think
                    necessary and proper, regard being had to the Company's funds. Four of the Directors with
                    the President shall form a quorum, and in case of the absence of the President, the Directors then
                    present shall appoint one pro. temp. The President of the board of Directors shall preside at the
                    annual meetings. In case of the death, resignation or removal of any of the members of the board of
                    Directors, the said board shall fill up the vacancy untill the next general or special meeting of
                    the share holders.

        " 4. It shall be the duty of the Librarian to receive all monies, fines &c.
                    belonging to the Society and pay the Same on an order signed by the President & Directors or
                    a majority of them. He shall act as Secretary to the general meetings and to the President and
                    Directors &  shall keep a regular account of his
                    receipts and disbursements and shall Exhibit the same annually to the general meeting and also
                    whenever thereto required by the President and Directors. He shall take good care of all books, maps
                    &c. belonging to the Company and shall keep a book properly ruled in which shall be noted
                    the times of delivery of books &c. to ye share holders or their agents and their returns;
                    noting also all delinquences as to loss or damage of books and as to the time of returning them. He
                    shall also receive, keep and arrange in systematical order as well all such specimens of ores,
                    minerals, fossils and other natural curiosities as shall be delivered him as also all such essays
                    & communications as may tend to throw light on the natural and civil history of the Western
                    country and of the aborigines thereof.
        " 5. The Library shall be open every Wednesday and Saturday from ten in the morning untill
                    four in the afternoon for the delivery and return of books to & from subscribers; and the
                    Librarian in discharge of the duties enjoined on him shall strictly observe the following rules
        1. Each share shall entitle a subscriber to one book at a time.
        2. Duodecimo]s. & Octav[o]s. shall be retained by a subscriber no longer than one week and
                    quar[to]s. and fo[lio]s. for the term of two weeks only.
        3. If a book is not returned at the times respectively before mentioned a fine of six cents shall be
                    incured by the subscriber occasioning such detention and twelve and an half cents for Duods. and
                    Octas. and twenty five cents for quarts, and fos. for every week thereafter.
        4. If a book is injured the Librarian shall be carefull to note it on its return; and the President
                    & Directors shall assess the fine to remunerate such damage.

        5. If a book be lost or so injured as to become in the opinion of the President and Directors,
                    useless, the subscriber losing or injuring it as aforesaid shall account for its value only, unless
                    it belongs to a sett, when the whole number shall be accounted for & Provided  always that the person who pays for a sett by him broken shall be
                    entitled to the volumes which remain–And that this rule may be properly executed the said
                    President and Directors shall estimate at a conscionable appraisement the books, which shall be
                    preserved in a memorandum kept by the Librarian for the purpose.
        6. No maps or manuscripts shall be taken out of the Library but by the special direction of the
                    President and Directors; but each subscriber shall have a right to the perusal & examination
                    of them during the time the Library shall be open.
        Art. 6. The number of shares shall be augmented from time to time in proportion as the demand
                    increases, which shall be determined by the opinion of the President and Directors; the prices of
                    which additional shares shall also be determined by the said President and Directors.
        " 7. The President and Directors shall have power to call extraordinary meetings either of
                    their own body or of the subscribers as often as they shall think the interest of the Institution
                    shall require it.
        [Art.] 8. Forfeiture of a share shall be incurred by a wilfull neglect in payment of the original
                    price of shares subscribed for within three months after they become due; failing to pay the yearly
                    contributions as before stated within three months thereafter; or in neglecting or refusing to pay
                    for books &c. lost or damaged when in his or their possession within three months after
                    being required so to do by the Librarian; and also in not paying all fines that shall be imposed
                    agreeably to these rules within three months after the same shall be demanded by the Librarian.
        [Art.] 9. No member shall sell or transfer a share untill all payments due on such share shall be
                    paid and then the transferree shall become a member in form and fact.
        [Art.] 10. No share holder shall lend books to be read out of his house on penalty of paying twenty
                    five cents for every book so lent out.
        
        " 11. Elections of officers shall be by ballot and all other questions shall be decided Viva
                    voce.
        " 12. The share holders at their general or special meetings shall have power to alter or
                    abridge any of the foregoing rules and regulations and to make any new ones they may think proper.
        " 13. Each share holder shall subscribe his name to this constitution which shall be
                    deposited with the Librarian.

        [The remainder of this page and the two pages which follow it in the minute book contain the
                    signatures of shareholders and the dates they signed. Photographic reproductions of those three
                    pages are here inserted in place of a typographic reproduction.]3
        
        
          
            3 In the editor's possession is a Xerox copy of a "List
                        of share holders in the 
              Vincennes
             Library," which includes in the column headed "Original
                        Subscribers" most of the names appearing in the portions of the minute book reproduced
                        on pages 327-29. The following is a list of the original subscribers as they were recorded in
                        the shareholder list. The few names in the minutes which are not listed in the
                        "Original Subscribers" column have been inserted in brackets in the order in
                        which they appear in the minute book. At least one name–Patrick
                        Simpson–which is in the minute book was omitted from the shareholder list because he
                        apparently had forfeited his share before that list was compiled. No explanation has been found
                        for the presence in the minute book of the name Henry S. Cauthorn among the signatures dated
                        February 2, 1807. Cauthorn was born at 
              Vincennes
             in 1828, and wrote A History of 
              Vincennes
            , which was published at 
              Terre Haute
             in 1902. R. E. Banta (comp.), Indiana Authors and Their Books, 1816-1916 (
              Crawfordsville
            , Ind., 1949), 56. Original subscribers: 1 John Rice Jones, 2 Rice Jones, 3 William
                        Bullitt, 4 Samuel McKee, 5 John Badollet, 6 Nathaniel Ewing, 7 Albert Badollet, 8 Benjamin
                        Parke, 9 Benjamin Parke, 10 George Wallace Jr., 11 Jacob Kuykendall, 12 Robert Buntin, 13 Robert
                        Buntin, 14 Peter Jones, 15 Thomas Jones Jr., 16 Henry 
              Vanderburgh
            , 17 John D. Hay, [Patrick Simpson], 18 Henry Hurst, 19 Henry Hurst, 20 Joshua Bond,
                        21 Willm. H. Harrison, 22 Willm. H. Harrison, 23 Charles Smith, 24 Elias McNamee, 25 James
                        Johnston [sic], 26 John [Small], 27 Waller Taylor, 28 Francis Vigo, 29 Francis Vigo, 30
                        Christopher Wyant, 31 John Johnson, 32 Daniel Sullivan, 33 Genl. W. Johnston, 34 Mark Barnet, 35
                        [Toussaint] Dubois, 36 [Toussaint] Dubois, 37 Luke Decker, [Henry S. Cauthorn], 38 Elihu Stout,
                        39 Permenes Beckes, 40 Christian Graeter, 41 Daniel Smith, 42 John McDonald, 43 Robert Baird, 44
                        Thomas 
              Randolph
            , 45 John F. Thompson, 46 Ephraim Jourdan, 47 Noah Purcell, 48 Edward Scull, 49
                        Joshua Bond, 50 Lt. Oliver G. Burton, 51 Josiah Bacon, 52 John Mc-Clure jr., 53 Joshua Bond, 54
                        Joshua Bond, 55 William Polke, 56 Jones & Dubois, 57 Jas. B. McCall, 58 Isaac 
              Blackford
            , 59 Charles Hinckley, 60 George Codd, 61 Jon[atha]n Doty, 62 Samuel Emison, 63
                        Elihu Stout, 64 Elihu Stout, 65 William E. Breading, 66 David M. Hale, 67 Nathl. 
              Huntington
            , 68 Samuel Dillworth, 69 Wm. P. Bennett, 70 Waller Taylor, 71 Elisha Boudinot, 72
                        Alex. Wolcott, 73 Wm. Burch, 74 Thomas Posey, 75 Lane & Ewing, 76 John Law, 77 Wassons
                        & Sayre, 78 Samuel Hill, 79 Moses Tabbs, 80 Frances Dickson, [Call & Sullivan],
                        81 Gibson Harris, 82 Sarah Parke, 83 Dennis Sayre, 84 Nathan Black-man, 85 J. C. S. Harrison, 86
                        John Badollet [marked out and the word "Error" entered in a column to the
                        right], 87 Ezra Webb, 88 Saml. Tomlinson, 89 A. S. Campbell, 90 Jas. P. Badollet, 91 Henry
                        Gilham, 92 James T. Moffatt, 93 Geo. Ewing, [L. S. Shuler], 94 John Moore, 95 John Bruner, 96
                        Saml. Judah, 97 John M. McClure, 98 J. D. Wool-verton, [William J. Heberd, Geo. R. Gibson, S. L.
                        Crosby, B. M. Thomas, R. Y. Caddington, Will. W. Carr, James A. Mason].
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        The Library Company then proceeded to the choice of officers when upon counting the ballots it
                    appeared that the following persons were respectively chosen, Viz., John Badollet, President; J.
                    Rice Jones, J. Johnson, W. Bullit, G. Wallace, S. McKee, E. McNamee, J. Kuykendall, Directors; B.
                    Parke, Librarian.

        on motion Resolved That the President & Directors be requested to prepare and present a
                    petition to the Legislature of the Territory praying an Act of incorporation for the said Library
                        Company.4
        
        Adjourned.
        August 9th 1806
        Present: J. Badollet, Prest.; J. R. Jones, Geo. Wallace, W. Bullitt, J. Kuykendall, S. McKee,
                    Directors; B. Parke, Librarian.
        on motion resolved, That the Librarian give publick notice to the subscribers to the 
            Vincennes
           Library Company that on the 23d Inst, the President and Directors will meet at the
                    Court House in 
            Vincennes

           to receive the books which they may wish to deposit in lieu of their subscriptions
                        respectively.5
        
        on motion ordered that the Board will meet at the court House on the 23d of this Inst, and then the
                    Board,
        adjourned.
        August 23d 1806
        The Board met according to adjournment Present: J. Badolette, Prest.; McKee, McName, Kuykendall,
                    Bullitt, Jones, Directors.
        The Librarian being sick and unable to attend, on motion ordered That J. R. Jones act as Librarian
                    pro. temp.
        Mr. Buntin tendered the following books in payment of his subscription for shares which were accepted
                    of at the prices annexed to the works respectively Viz.
        
          
            4 The act incorporating the 
              Vincennes
             Library Company was approved by Governor Harrison on December 3, 1806. Francis S.
                        Philbrick (ed.), The Laws of Indiana Territory, 1801-1809 (Collections of the Illinois State
                        Historical Library, Vol. XXI;
              Springfield
            , 111., 1930), 202-03. Its content was largely drawn from the "Rules and
                        Regulations of the 
              Vincennes
             Library Company" adopted at the meeting of August 2, 1806.
          
            5 The public notice presumably was posted since the town was without a
                        newspaper at the time. Elihu Stout's Indiana Gazette had been burned in April, 1806,
                        and his Western Sun first appeared in July, 1807.
        
        
        
          
            Spectator6
            
            8 vol.
            $ 8.
          
          
            Guthries Grammar
            2 vol.
            $4.
          
          
            Chesterfields letters
            4 vol.
            4.
          
          
            Thompsons Works
            4 vol.
            3.
          
          
            Do. Seasons
            1
            .62
          
          
            Jeffersons notes with appendix
            2 vol.
            2.
          
          
            Bulfields elements of erudition
            3 vol.
            3.
          
          
            ossian's Poems
            1 vol.
            2.
          
          
            Tucker on Slavery-
            1 vol.
            .75
          
          
            Seneca's Morals
            1
            1.
          
          
            Julians Works
            2
            2.
          
          
            French revolution
            1
            1.50
          
          
            Essay on the study of antiquities
            1
            1.
          
          
            Junius' letters
            1
            .87
          
          
            Dramatic Miscellanies
            3
            2.25
          
          
            Practical farmer
            1
            1.50
          
          
            Leland on Eloquence
            1
            .50
          
          
            Derhams Phisico Theology
            1
            .75
          
          
            Essays & letters on the most important subjects
            2
            1.
          
          
            Atwoods treatise
            1
            1.
          
          
            Burtons lectures on female Education & manners
            1
            .75
          
          
            Humphrys Miscellaneous Works
            1
            2.
          
          
            Holcrofts philosophical Essays
            1
            .75
          
          
             
             
            $44.24
          
          
            Mr. Buntin made a donation of the following books viz.
            
            
          
          
            Melmoths Essays
             vol. 1
            .50
          
          
            Confession of faith
            3 setts 1 each
            2.40
          
          
            Hapless orphan
            2
            1.50
          
          
            Mr. Wallace delivered the following books viz.
            
            
          
          
            Pinkertons geography with maps
            v. 3
             
          
          
            Millers retrospect
            2
            5.
          
          
            Doer. McName.
             
             
          
          
            Edward, [?]ovil
            2
            1.
          
          
            Simple Story
            2
            1.25
          
        
        
          
            6 In this reproduction no verification of authors, titles, spelling, or
                        bibliographic information has been added. The lists of books have been reproduced as they
                        appeared in the minutes, with the exception of occasional adjustments in format made necessary
                        by space limitations and the general problems of transferring a handwritten document to
                    print.
        
        
        
          
            Gaudentio di Lucca
            1
            .75
          
          
            Herveys Meditations
            1
            .75
          
          
            Breckenridge's Modern chivalry
            1
            1.25
          
          
             
             
            $ 5.00
          
          
            Doer. McName presented the Library with a Vol. of the annual Register
             
            .75
          
          
            Mr. Badollet.
             
             
          
          
            
              
                Knox
              's Essays
            2 vol.
            1.50
          
          
            Donation by Badollet
             
             
          
          
            Moores Utopia
            1
            .50
          
          
            Mr. Bullitt
             
             
          
          
            Reeds Essays
            3
            10.
          
          
            Mirabeaus gallery of portraits
            2
            2.50
          
          
            Locks Essays
            3
            4.50
          
          
             
             
            $17.00
          
          
            Donation, Ladies Companion
            1
            2.
          
          
            Doer. McKee. Humes 
                England
              
            
            6
            9.
          
          
            The Doer, presented the Library Company with a specimen of the Carbonate of lime
                            christalized.
          
          
            J. R. Jones, for self and Rice Jones.
             
             
          
          
            Beauties of history
            2 v.
            2.50
          
          
            Drydens poems
            2 "
            2.00
          
          
            Enfields philosophy
            2
             
          
          
            Humes dialogues
            1
            1.
          
          
            Priestly's lectures
            1
            3.50
          
          
             
             
            $ 9.00
          
          
            Mr. Stout. Goldsmiths literary Miscellanies
            2
            1.50
          
        
        on motion ordered that the Board do adjourn to Saturday next at 2 oClock P. M.
        August 30th 1806
        The Board met according to adjournment Present: Badolette; Jones, Wallace, Bullitt, McName. Jones
                    Librarian pro. temp.
        Col. Vigo tendered the following books, viz.,
        
        
          
            World displayed
            v. 8
            12.00
          
          
            Morse's Geography
            2
            4.00
          
          
            Wealth of Nations
            3
            3.
          
          
            Goldsmiths 
                England
               abridged
            1
            1.
          
          
            Washingtons Letters
            2
            1.50
          
          
            Varlo's husbandry
            2
            2.00
          
          
            Rousseaus Eloisa
            4
            4.
          
          
            Fool of Quality
            3
            2.
          
          
            Lelands Phillip of Macedon
            1
            4.
          
          
             
             
            $33.50
          
        
        Col. Vigo presented the Company with a singular horn.
        Ordered That the Board do adjourn to the 13th September next.
        September 13th 1806
        The Board met according to adjournment Present: J. Badollet, Prest.; Kuykendall, McName, McKee,
                    Jones, Bullitt, Directors; Parke, Librarian.
        B. Parke delivered to the Company the following books, Viz.,
        
          
            Andrews View
             
            2.50
          
          
            Cattau's View of 
                Sweden
              
            
             
            2.50
          
          
             
             
            $5.00
          
          
            He presented to the Company The Abbess
            3 vol
            2.
          
          
            Maimbourg's history of Arianism
            2 vol
            3.
          
          
            Mr. Jones withdrew Enfields philosophy and delivered the following books, Viz.,
            
            
          
          
            Scott's Gazetteer
            
            1.50
          
          
            Condorcet's life of Voltaire
            
             1.
          
          
            Dryden's Juvenal
            
            1.50
          
          
            Joan of Arc
            
            .50
          
          
             
            
            $4.50
          
        
        The President & Directors then adjourned & to meet again on Saturday next at three
                    oClock in the afternoon.
        September 20th 1806
        Present: Badolette, Prest.; J. Johnson, NcName, Directors; Parke, Librarian.
        
        There not being a sufficient number of Directors present to form a Board
        Adjourned.
        November 21st 1806
        Special Meeting Present: G. Wallace, J. R. Jones, McKee, McName, Kuykendall, Bullitt, Johnson,
                    Directors; Parke, Librarian.
        The President being absent the Directors Present appointed J. Rice Jones President pro. temp.

        on motion ordered that the Librarian pay to William Bullitt four Dollars, the price of a blank
                        book7 to keep the Journals, purchased of him.
        On motion ordered That a Librarian pro. temp, be appointed, who shall exercise the duties of that
                    officer untill the present Librarian can resume the exercise of the duties of his office.
        on motion ordered That Doer. McName be appointed Librarian pro. temp, in conformity to the preceding
                    order.
        on motion ordered That Doer. McName Doer. McKee and G. Wallace be appointed a committee to draw and
                    present to the Legislature of this Territory, a petition praying for an act of Incorporation for the 
            Vincennes
           Library Company.
        on motion ordered–That Mr. Wallace have leave to withdraw Pinkertons Geography with maps,
                    which he delivered on account of his share.
        On motion ordered, That the Librarian procure a portable book case, of cheap materials, for the use
                    of the Company.
        on motion ordered That the aforesaid committee, prepare the form of an act of Incorporation of the
                    said company, and make report thereof together with the said Petition to the next meeting of this
                    board.
        On motion, ordered that this Board will meet again on Monday next at 4 oClock in the evening.
        and the Board adjourned till Monday Evening 4 oClock.
        
          
            7 The blank book purchased at this time eventually contained the complete
                        minutes of the library company.
        
        
        Novr. 24 [1806]
        the board met according to adjournment. Present: Geo. Wallace, John R. Jones, Saml. McKee, John
                    Johnson, E. McNamee.
        John R. Jones in Chair.
        The committy appointed to draft a petition [to] the Legislature reported one which was adopted by the
                    board which board ordered the same to be presented to the Legislature, & the board then
                    adjourned.
        Janry. 10. 1807.
        at a Special meeting of the Board, present: John Badollet, President; J. R. Jones, J. Kuykendol, J.
                    Johnson, Doctor McKee, & E. McNamee Librarian pro. temp, directors.
        On motion ordered that John Johnson & Genl. W. John-s[t]on be a committee to collect the
                    shares due from subscribers & pay the same to the Librarian & take his receipt.
        On motion ordered that G. W. Johnson, Doctor Kukendol J. Jonson & J. D. Hay be a committy to
                    procure subscribers to this Institution.

        On motion ordered that Librarian as soon posible shall number arrange & form a catalogue of
                    all Books in the Library.8 & also to advertise the Share holders when
                    Books may be taken out. & further that the Librarian be authorised to procure such blank
                    books, stationary &c. as may be necessary for his office & charge the same to the
                    compay.
        The Board then adjorned till Saturday the 16th instant.
        Saturday Janry. 16 1807
        The Board met according to adjornment. Present: John Badollet, President; J. R. Jones, J. Johnson, J.
                    Kuykendol, S. McKee, & E. McNamee, Librarian Pro Temp, directors.
        J. R. Jones submited the following amendment to the constitution.
        
          
            8 This apparently was the first such catalogue authorized by the board.
                        See also footnote 11, below.
        
        
        Whereas the time for detention of 12 & 8vos9 for one week only has been
                    found too short for subscribers living in the country. Therefore resolved that subscribers residing
                    out of 
            Vincennes
           may retain Boks of the above description for two weeks.
        
          
            Thomas Jones sent forward 
                Washington
              's letters 2 vol. which ware received at
            $3.00
          
          
            Parmenias Bachus [Beckes] sent forward Robertsons Hystory of Char[l]es the 5th 3 vol:
                            received at
            $4.00
          
        
        Genl. W. Johnson the following Books which were received at the prices anexed to them.
        
          
            2 vol.
            Witherspoon at
            $3.50
          
          
            1
            Hutcheson on the Passions
            1.50
          
          
            1
            Morses Geography
            1.25
          
          
            1
            Philosophical dictionary
            1.25
          
          
            2
            Travels Dean Mahomed
            1.50
          
          
            2
            Drydens Poems
            1.75
          
          
            1
            Callipoedia
            0.75
          
          
            1
            Beauties Hervy
            0.75
          
          
            1
            McKinzies Voyage
            2.00
          
          
            1
            Life Moreau
            1.20
          
          
            1
            Goldsmiths Hytory 
                Rome
              
            
            1.00
          
          
            1
            Man of the World
            1.00
          
          
            1
            Goldsmiths Poems
            1.25
          
          
             
             
            $18.70
          
        
        The Board then adjourned till Saturday the 24th instant.
        Saturday the 24 Janry. 1807
        the Board met according to adjornment.
        On motion ordered that the World displayed 8 vol. vallued by the directors formerly at 12$
                    be now vallued at $16 dollars, to the Credit of F. Vigo.
        Mr. T. Dubois then put in the following Books at the prices anexed to them.
        
          
            Shakespears Works
            12 Vol:
            $16.66 2/3
          
          
            Beggar Girl
            3 Vol.
            3.00
          
          
             
             
            $19.66 2/3
          
        
        
          
            9 See Article 5, Section 2 of the "Eules and
                        Regulations" in the minutes of August 2, 1806. See also minutes of April 21, 1808; June
                        3, 1809; February 4, 1811; and February 17, 1813.
        
        
        Mr. Peter Jones put in the following Books at the prices anexed
        
          
            .Millitary Hystory of 
                Germany
              
            
            1 vol.
            $1.25
          
          
            Carvers Travels
            1 vol.
            1.25
          
          
            Plain Sence
            2 Vol.
            1.00
          
          
            Charlott Temple
            1 Vol.
            0.75
          
          
            Arabian Knights
            2 Vol.
            1.75
          
          
             
             
            $6.00
          
        
        
          
            John Badollet put in at the prices anexed.
             
             
          
        
        
          
            Politics for the people
            2 vol.
            $2.00
          
          
            Adam's, Travels
             
            1.25
          
          
             
             
            3.25
          
        
        
          
            John Johnson put in
             
             
          
          
            Blairs lectures
            2 vol. at
            $5.00
          
        
        John Badollet then made a presant of the following Books to the Library, vallued at the prices anexed
                    to them.
        
          
            Principes de la literature l'Abbe Bateaux
            4 vol.
            $2.00
          
          
            Introduction a l'histoire du Dannen'ark par Mr. Mallet
            2 vol:
            1.00
          
          
            F. Vigo put in Goldsmiths Animated Nature
            4 vol: vallued at
            $8.00
          
        
        for which the Board ordered the Librarian to pay him with first money that came in to the Treasury.
        It was then on motion ordered that Doctor McKee & Doer. Kuykendol be committy to report the
                    progress of the Board with a statement of the companies circumstances to the next general meeting.
        The Board then adjorned till Satturday next.
        [January 31, 1807]
        At a meeting of the Board Janry. 31st presant: John Badollet; J. R. Jones, John Johnson, S. McKee,
                    & E. McNamee. Thomas Jones then put in
        
          
            Currens speaches
            $3.50
          
        
        On Motion it was order that the committee apointed to report to the general meeting &c. be
                    dismissed.
        The Board then adjorned till Monday.
        
        February 2nd 1807.
        At a General Meeting of the shareholders of the Vincenns Library Company pursuant to the Constitution
                    of the same. members present: John Badollet, president; W. H. Harrison, J. R. Jones, John Johnson,
                    J. D. Hay, Peter Jones, E. Stout, S. McKee, J. Kuykendol, J. Bond, P. Bechus, L. Decker, G. W.
                    Johnston, James Johnson, & E. McNamee.
        E. McNamee as Librarian pro. temp, reported the state of the institution which report was ordered to
                    lie on the table.–Resolved that the election of Officers be by
                    nomination–whereupon Wm. H. Harrison moved that the former Officers be continued. Viz. J.
                    Badollet president. J. R. Jones John Johnson W. Bullet G. Wallace S. McKee, J. Kuykendol &
                    E. McNamee. Directors B. Parke Librarian.
        The meeting then adjorned till Saturneday next.
        [March 7, 1807]
        At a monthly meeting of the Board of Directors on Saturday March 7th 1807 Members present: J.
                    Badollet, Presidend; J. R. Jones, J. Johnson, S. McKee, & E. McNamee, L. Pro. temp.,
                    Directors.
        T. Dubois delivered the following Books which were received & valued (viz.)
        
          
            Gill Blass
            4 vol:at
            $4.00
          
          
            Vagabond
            1 vol:
            $1.00
          
          
            Nox's Essays
            2 voll.
            2.50
          
          
            Broad Grins
            1 voll.
            0.50
          
          
             
             
            $8.00
          
        
        
          
            Mark Barnet put in Mistories of Udolpho 3 vol: valued at
            $3.00
          
          
            J. Badollet put in Daughters Adoption 2 vol: valued at
            $2.50
          
          
            Parmenes Bechus put in Robertson History of America 2 vol: valued at
            $10.00
          
          
            Blairs Lectures abridged
            1.00
          
          
             
            $11.00
          
        
        

        On motion the Board resolved that the Original Shareholders shall pay two dollars on each share it
                    being (their anual contribution) in in one month from this date–and in future the same
                    shall become due every first monday in February–Also that the Librarian be authorised to
                    apply for the same– Resolved further that subsequent subscribers shall pay their anual
                    contributions at the end of the year from the times of signing.10
        
        [April 4, 1807]
        At a monthly meeting of the Board of Directors on Saturday April 4th 1807 Members presant: John
                    Badollet, president; J. Johnson, S. McKee, J. Kuykendol, & E. Mc-Namee, L. pro temp.,
                    Directors.
        
          
            Mark Barnet put in Robison Crusoe
            1 voll. at
            $0.75
          
        
        [June 6, 1807]
        At a monthly meeting of the Board of Directors on Saturday June 6th 1807 John Badolet, President;
                    John Johnson, J. Kukendol, S. McKee, & E. McNamee, L. Pro Tern.
        On motion ordered that G. W. Johnson be appointed to collect all monies due the Library & to
                    report his progress to the next meeting & also that the Librarian furnish him with a
                    Statement of ballenences due.
        On motion ordered that Dr. Kuykendol & Wm. Bullet be a commitee with the Libraian to number
                    & arange the books as they may think proper & make out a Catalougue of the same.
                    & also that the Librarian make out an acct. of the monies received & expended
                    & report the same to the next meeting.
        The Board then proceeded to vallue the Books put in by Robt. Baird (viz.) –
        
          
            Vattels Law of Nations
            1 vol:
            2.00
          
          
            Dictionary of arts & Sciences
            5 "
            6.25
          
          
             
             
            $8.25
          
        
        The Board then adjorned.
        
          
            10 This is the first action of the board regarding annual contributions
                        provided for by the rules of the company adopted at the meeting on August 2, 1806. Other action
                        is recorded in the minutes of February 5, 1810, and February 4, 1811.
        
        
        [February 1, 1808]
        At an anuel meting of the 
            Vincennes
           Library Company on Monday the 1st day of February 1808 The president being absent
                    Robert Buntin was appointed President pro temp when the following persons were duly elected Henry
                    VanderBurgh, President; Peter Jones, Librarian; William Bullitt, Robert Buntin, John D. Hay, John
                    Rice Jones, Charles Smith, Samuel McKee, Jacob Kuykendall, Directors.
        February 1st On motion & seconded Ordered that the Librarian apply to the several share
                    holders for the amount of the several sums by them respectively due and that in default thereof the
                    Board of Directors are authorised and required to take coercive measures to inforce the payment
                    thereof– Carried.
        On Motion and seconded ordered that a committe of three members be appointed to receve the Books
                    &c. belonging to the Company and examine their situation and deliver them over to the
                    succeeding Librarian and that they make their report to the Board of Directors at their meeting in
                    March next–and in case of loss or damage that they report the amount thereof to the said
                    Board– Who are required to take the necessary steps either against the Librarian or the
                    share holders as the case may be for the amount of such damage or loss– and further
                    ordered that the Librarian account for and pay to the new Librarian the several Sums &c. by
                    him received for fines &c. and thereupon John Rice Jones Jacob Kuykendall & Samuel
                    McKee were appointed that Committe– On motion of Samuel McKee Ordered that William
                    Bullitt & Robert Buntin be appointed a Committe to examine the accounts of the Librarian and
                    report the same to the next meeting of the Board of Directors.
        adjourned untill Saturday the 6th Instant.
        February 6th 1808
        Present: Henry VanderBurgh President; William Bullitt Robert Buntin John D. Hay John Rice Jones
                    Samuel McKee Jacob Kuykendall Directors.
        Mesrs. Bullitt & Buntin a Committe appointed at the last meeting to examine the accounts of
                    the late Librarian reported progress and prayed leave to have untill the next meeting to make their
                    report–Concured in.
        
        On motion & seconded ordered that Messrs. Robert Buntin John D. Hay & Samuel McKee be
                    a Committe to examine the by Laws rules and regulations of the Society and report at their next
                    meeting whether any or if any or what alterations aught to be made therein.
        
          
            Toussaint Dubois put in a Book titeled Beggar Boy
            1 Voll.
            75 Cents
          
        
        The Board then adjourned.
        March 5th 1808
        At a monthly meeting of the Directors of 
            Vincennes
           Library Members present: Henry VanderBurgh Robert Buntin Samuel McKee John D. Hay
                    Charles Smith and Peter Jones.
        Samuel McKee submitted the following resolution which was unanimously adopted:
        Whereas a Number of persons now have or here after may put Books into the 
            Vincennes
           Library to a greater amount than their Subscriptions for Shares. Resolved that they be
                    entitled to a Credit of six pr. Cent pr. anum Interest for all such sums untill paid, and that all
                    sums due to the Company after the day of payment bear a like Interest untill paid.
        A Bye law made by the President and Directors of the 
            Vincennes
           Library Company at a Stated meeting held at 
            Vincennes
           on the first Saturday in March 1808:

        Whereas by the 8th article of the Constitution of the said Company it is declared that forfeiture of
                    a Share shall be incurred by a wilful neglect in payment of the original price of shares subscribed
                    for within three months after they become due and Whereas doubts have arisen whether subscribers for
                    shares can be compelled to pay the amount of their Subscription– To obviate which doubt
                    it is hereby enacted that no forfeiture shall be incurred for neglect of payment of the original
                    price of Shares subscribed for, but that the person subscribing for such shares shall pay the
                    Original price thereof within three Months, in default whereof it shall be the duty of the Chairman
                    to Sue for the same in the name of the Company and for their use– and it is hereby
                    declared that so much of the eighth article as comes  within the
                    perview of this Law shall be and the same is hereby repealed. Passed March the 5th 1808.
        Peter Jones Librarian
        Henry VanderBurgh President
        On motion and Seconded ordered that John Rice Jones and John D. Hay be added to the Committee for
                    Setteling the Accounts with the late Librarian and be it further ordered that the above Committee do
                    and they are hereby authorised to settle with the late Librarian and examine into the Amount hes
                    [sic] has received and the amount of Damage the Books has received and by whom and make report on
                    Wednesday next.
        On motion and seconded ordered that Henry Vanderburgh John Johnson John D. Hay Charles Smith and
                    Samuel McKee be appointed a Committee to make out a Cattalogue of Books for the 
            Vincennes
           Library and that they report on Wednesday next.11
        
        Adjourned untill Wednesday next.
        April 2d 1808
        At a meeting of the Board of Directors for the 
            Vincennes
           Library Company there was present: Henry Vanderburgh Charles Smith Robert Buntin John
                    D. Hay Samuel McKee John Rice Jones.
        It having been represented to the Board that Nathaniel Ewing one of the share holders has positively
                    refused to pay either his original Subscription Money or the two annuel contributions now due On
                    Motion Ordered unamously that the Librarian do bring suit against the Said Mr. Ewing for the
                    recovery of the said sums of money so due from him and that he prosecute the same in the name and at
                    the expence of the Company to final Judgement either before a Magistrate or by appeal to the Court
                    of common plees and General Court. Also ordered that the Librarian do and shall in every Instance
                    where a Subscriber positively refuses to pay either his Subscription or contribution money bring
                    Suit in like manner for the recovery thereof.
        Adjourned.
        
          
            11 It is possible that a "Cattalogue" prepared by this
                        committee was the basis for the list of 210 books belonging to the library which appeared in the 
              Vincennes
             Western Sun, April 6, 1808.
        
        
        Apl. 21st 1808
        At a meeting of the Board of Directors of the 
            Vincennes
           Library Company there was present: Henry Vanderburgh John Rice Jones Charles Smith
                    Robert Buntin Samuel McKee John D. Hay and Peter Jones.
        
          
            John Rice Jones put in the Library Pinkertons Geography
            2 Volls.
            $13.50
          
          
            John Johnson Put in Pinkertons Geography
            2 Volls. at
            13.50
          
          
            John L. Murray put in Bruces Travels
            1 Voll.
            1.50
          
        
        On motion Resolved that the fine incurred for the detention of Books shall be Six and one fourth
                    Cents in lieu of Six Cents agreeable to a Rule of the Board and that after the first week that they
                    may be detained the person so offending shall pay for each like offence double the Sum.
        On Motion ordered Country share holders shall be entitled to detain Books by them taken out of the
                    library for the term of one week longer than by the Rules of the Society they are now entitled to.
        On motion Resolved that the librarian bring suit against Doctor Elias McNamee late librarian for the
                    amount of damages which the Books belonging to the library has reed. and unaccounted for by him
                    while in his possession and that he be at liberty to take it through the necessary course of law to
                    obtain sd. amount.
        Adjourned.
        November 5th 1808
        At a meeting of the Board of Directors for the 
            Vincennes
           Library Company Present: Robert [Buntin] Samuel McKee Jacob Kuykendall John D. Hay
                    & Peter Jones The President being absent Robert Buntin was appointed President pro temp.
        On Motion ordered that the Books William Bullitt brot from 
            Baltimore
           for the 
            Vincennes

           Library be reed, at the price stated in his Bill, which amounted to
                        $29.59.12
        
        
          
            12 This is the first reference to books being purchased for the library.
                        No record has been found of the board's prior authorization of this purchase or of
                        those noted in the minutes of March 4 and June 19, 1809. The first recorded advance
                        authorization by the board is in the minutes of January 16, 1811.
        
        
        Elias McNamee put in the library Peggy Black and Wilmot Bond 5 Volls. amounting to four Dollars to be
                    taken out in anuel contributions hereafter due.
        Ordered that the Librarian be authorised to purchase the King of Prussia's works provided he
                    can get them at cost & carriage from 
            Philadelphia
           or 
            Baltimore
          .
        Resolved that the Librarien & Secretary be instructed and authorised to procure catologues of
                    Book Stores from 
            Philadelphia
           and 
            Baltimore
          .
        Adjourned.
        February 6th 1809

        At an anuel meeting of the share holders of the Vin-cennes Library Company there was present: Henry
                    Vander-Burgh, Robert Buntin, Benjamin Parke, Joshua Bond, Samuel McKee, Charles Smith, Peter Jones,
                    Jacob Kuykendall, John Johnson, E. McNamee, Francois Vigo, Genl. W. Johnston, John Badollet, Thomas
                    Jones, John D. Hay, Robert Baird, Nathaniel Ewing, George Wallace, Parmenas Beckes, Elihu Stout,
                    Henry Hurst, Albert Badollet.13
        
        The Board proceeded to the Election of a President Librarian & Directors and on counting the
                    Ballots it appeared that Benjamin Parke was duly Elected President Peter Jones Librarian &
                    Robert Buntin Parmenas Beckes Samuel McKee Charles Smith Jacob Kuykendall John Johnson &
                    Thomas 
            Randolph
           directors– Mr. John Badolet submitted the following Resolution which was
                    passed in the affirmative.
        Resolved that for the purchase of Books the Board of Directors shall make out as often as the State
                    of the funds will permit a list of such Books as to them shall appear proper, and authorise by a
                    written order accompanied by the said list and signed by the President the Librarian to purchase the
                    same.

        Mr. Johnston moved the following Order which was passed & G. W. Johnston Robert Buntin
                    & John Badollet was appointed that Committee–Ordered that a Committee of 
            
              13 This list was entered in the minutes in two columns with numbers
                            1-11 and 12-22 following the names in the columns. The order indicated by the numbers has
                            been maintained in reproducing the list in series.
          
           three members be appointed to examine the Books &[c].
                    belonging to the company as also to inspect their Situation and make their report by and at the next
                    meeting of the directors. Resolved that the Committee appointed to examine & inspect the
                    Books shall at the same time examine the state of the funds of the Library Company and report the
                    same to the next meeting of the Board of Directors.
        February the 15th [1809]
        At a meeting of the board of Directors for the 
            Vincennes
           Library Company there was present: Benjamin Park President Peter Jones Librarian
                    & Charles Smith John Johnson Samuel McKee Robert Buntin Parmenas Beckes & Jacob
                    Kuykendall Directors.
        On motion and seconded ordered that all maps attached to any Books may be taken out of the Library in
                    the same manner that other Books are taken out.
        March 4th [1809]
        Mr. Toussaint Dubois having proposed to sell to the Library Company Washingtons life by Marshall for
                    $15 in cash and $10 to be placed to his credit which is to be taken out in
                    anuel contributions hereafter & the Librarian having received the said work–
                    Resolved that he pay to Toussaint Dubois the sum of fifteen Dollars in Cash & place to his
                    Credit in his account with the Library the sum of ten Dollars which is to be taken out in anuel
                    contributions as they become due.
        On motion and seconded Ordered that the Librarian be direc[t]ed to keep safely the Books titled Peggy
                    Black & Wilmot Bond as also Callipedia out of the Library untill he can make sale of said
                    Books and that may be authorised to sell them for what he can get.
        Genl. W. Johnston Chairman of a Committee appointed for that purpose Reported:14
        
        
          
            14 The committee's written report, a photocopy of which is in the
                        editor's possession, differs in small details from the secretary's record in
                        the minutes. The original report is reproduced on page 347.
        
        
        That the books are in as good a state as could be expected from their frequent use by share holders
                    and are in good order in the Library case.
        That there are now belonging to the Company 248 volumes of books and 3 Atlass's which are
                    owned by 40 share holders, and owing to some having sundry shares, there are 46
                    shares–That amongst this collection there are two books vizt. "Calipoedia in 1
                    vol. and Peggy Black & Wilmot Bond in 5 vol." which in the opinion of the
                    committee, are by their immoral tendency, unfit to be found in the possession of an Institution the
                    object of which is to diffuse usefull knowledge and correct moral principles,–your
                    committee are there fore of opinion that they ought to be destroyed.
        That as to the funds of the company they find that from the first of February 1808 to the 1 Feby.
                    1809–the Librarian had received from annual contributions, shares and fines, the sum of
                    $80.6114 and that he has paid out for books which he was ordered to purchase 80 D. 59
                    cts. leaving a ballance due by him to the Company for the year 1808, 214 cts. as per his document
                    herewith reported.
        That the Librarian has collected of different share holders, since the last annual meeting
                    $60 which he sent by Mr. Charles Smith for the procurement of other books,–and
        That there is now due by the share holders to the Company the sum of $93.
        Adjourned.
        June 3d 1809
        At a stated monthly meeting of the President and Directors the following gentlemen were present: B.
                    Parke, Prest.; P. Jones, Librarian; R. Buntin, P. Beches, S. McKee, J. Kuykendall, T. Randolph,
                    Directors.
        on motion made and seconded Resolved, that where country subscribers reside more than four miles from
                    Vin-cennes they may detain Duos, and Octavs. three weeks and quarts, and fols. four weeks.
        Ordered, that Benjamin Parke be entitled to a credit of two dollars for the following books Viz.
                    "Stranger in 
            Ireland
          ", 1 vol.,– "Udegerte", 1 vol.,– and
                    "The horrors of St. Domingo," 1 vol.,– Benjamin Parke made a donation,
                    to the Institution, of the "Stranger in 
            France
          ", which was accepted.
        Adjourned.
        
        
        
        June 19th 1809
        At a Special meeting of the Board of Directors for the 
            Vincennes
           Library there was present: Benjamin Parke, president; Peter Jones, Librarian; Thomas 
            Randolph
          , Robert Buntin, Samuel McKee, Charles Smith, Directors.
        The Librarian under the direction of the Board having contracted with Charles Smith for the
                    Importation of sundry-Books for the use of the Library agreeably to a memorandom furnished for that
                    purpose. Mr. Smith produced the Board this day the following Books which he had Imported from 
            Baltimore
           together with the costs & Charges attendant on the Same.
        
          
            Select Novels
            13 Volls.
            $13.55
          
          
            Marmontels Tales
            3 do.
            4.05
          
          
            Rollins Antient History
            8 Volls.
            8.34
          
          
            Smiths Theory of moral sentiment
            2 V.
            3.60
          
          
            Federalist
            2 do.
            4.17
          
          
            Memories of Pope pius 6th
            2 do.
            3.60
          
          
            Smiths History of N. York
             
            1 80
          
          
            Blairs Sermons
            3 Volls.
            5.84
          
          
            Barrows Travels in Southern Africa
             
            1.88
          
          
            Stephens French Wars
            2 Volls.
            5.00
          
          
            Gillis history of 
                Greece
              
            
            4 do.
            11.70
          
          
            Roscoes Life of Lorenzo
            3 do.
            6.25
          
          
            Roscoes life of Leo the 10th
            
            4 Volls.
            8.96
          
          
            Plowdens History of 
                Ireland
              
            
            5 do.
            11.25
          
          
            1 Ream & 4 quires of Wrapping Paper to fill in a Trunk
             
            1.35
          
          
            1 new Trunk
             
            3.50
          
          
            Carriage on Books wt. 96 lb.
             
            7.68
          
          
             
            
            $102.52
          
        
        On motion ordered that the Librarian receive the above mentioned Books at the amount above specified
                    and deposite them in the Library for the use of the share holders.
        On motion ordered that the Librarian take immediate measures for collecting the arreareges due the
                    Library at least sufficient to pay Mr. Smith the balance due him on the above said Importation.
        On Motion ordered that Mr. Smith be permitted to retain for his own use the Trunk and wrapping paper
                    above mentioned amounting to four Dollars Eighty five Cents the Trunk &c. being considered
                    as of no use to the Institution.
        
        It appears to the Board that the Book case is too small to contain the Books now belonging to the
                    Institution and Joshua Bond having proposed to make another and larger one for the use of the
                    Institution the cost of which should be placed to the account of the anuel [ ?] contributions which
                    now are or may hereafter become due from him the said Bond untill the same shall be discharged.
        Therefore Resolved that a committee of two members of the Board together with the Librarian contract
                    with Joshua Bond for a Book case agreeably to the above proposition– Thomas 
            Randolph
           & Robert Buntin was appointed that committee.
        Adjourned.
        June 27th 1809
        At a Special meeting of the Board of Directors for the 
            Vincennes
           Library there was present: Benjamin Parke, pret.; Peter Jones, Librarian; Charles
                    Smith, Thomas 
            Randolph
          , Jacob Kuykendall, Samuel McKee, Robert Buntin, Directors. Thomas 
            Randolph
           put in the Library
        
          
            Military Library by Duane
            $2.00
          
        
        Thereby making a present of five Dolls, and fifty Cents for the use of the institution.
        George Wallace put in the Library the Book Collumbiad in two Volls. at four Dollars & that
                    the Librarian pay the same to George Wallace.
        Adjourned.
        [February 5, 1810]
        At an annual meeting of the Share holders of the 
            Vincennes
           Library on Monday 5th February 1810 there was present: Wm. H. Harrison, Hy. 
            Vanderburgh
          , Parmenes Beckes, John D. Hay, G. W. Johnston, Robert Baird, Joshu. Bond, Elihu Stout,
                    John Johnston, Patk. Simpson, Nathl. Ewing, James Johnson, Peter Jones, Charles Smith, Abhm. F.
                    Snapp, Dl. Sullivan, John Badollet, Geo. Wallace jr.

        The President being absent, Charles Smith was appointed to the chair, whereupon the members proceeded
                    to a choice of officers, and on counting the ballots, the following persons were respectively chosen
                    Viz.–Ben Parke, Presd.;  Hy. 
            Vanderburgh
          , Genl. W. Johnston, John Johnston, Thomas 
            Randolph
          , Peter Jones, Jacob Kuykendall, Charles Smith, Directors; Geo. Wallace jr., Librarian.
        Patrick Simpson has relinquish'd his share to the institution, & not having paid any
                    of the annual contributions, they are remitted & the Librn. order'd to close his
                    account.
        On Motion Resolved that a committee of three members be appointed to examine the accounts of the late
                    Librarian & the state of the books & receive & deliver them over to the
                    present Librarian, also that they make out a catalogue of the books now in the library &
                    have one hundred copies thereof printed– the expense whereof shall be paid upon their
                    order by the Librarian, when so much money may be in his hands– And that report to the
                    next meeting of the board of Directors.
        Hy. 
            Vanderburgh
          , John Johnson & Genl. W. Johnston are appointed, to carry the foregoing
                    resolution into effect.
        On Motion Order'd that the yearly contributions be reduced to one dollar pr. anm. for each
                    share.
        Adjourned.
        April 7th 1810
        At a monthly meeting of the President and Directors– present: B. Parke, Prest.; G. W.
                    Johnston, John Johnson, Henry VanderBurgh, Thomas 
            Randolph
          .
        on motion ordered that the Board of Directors meet on Saturday next at three oClock in the Afternoon.
        Adjourned.
        April 14th 1810
        Special meeting of the President & Board of Directors, Present: Parke, Prest.; Johnston,
                    VanderBurgh, 
            Randolph
          .
        There not being a sufficient number of members present to do business
        Adjourned.
        Saturday May 1810
        Monthly meeting of the President and Board of Directors Present: Parke; Johnson, VanderBurgh, Jones, 
            Randolph
          .
        There being no business before the Board
        adjourned.
        
        Saturday 1st September 1810
        At a monthly meeting of the President & Directors– Present: B. Parke, Presd.; H.
                    Vanderburgh, T. Randolph, C. Smith, J. Kuykendall, P. Jones, John Johnston.
        Resolved that it is the opinion of this board that the annual contributions are due at the expiration
                    of the year after subscribing the Constitution.
        Resolved that it is the opinion of this board that the order for reducing the annual contributions to
                    one dollar pass'd at the annual meeting of the present year, did not affect the
                    contributions due from the share holders respectively for the current year.
        adjd. until monday 10th Inst. 4 oClock.
        10th Septr. 1810
        At a Special meeting of Directors present: Parke, Prest.; 
            Vanderburgh, Randolph
          , Smith, G.
                    W. Johnston.
        On motion resolved that 
            Vanderburgh
            Randolph
           & Genl. W. Johnston be a committee to examine & settle the accounts of
                    the late librarian agreeably to a resolution of the last meeting of the Directors & make
                    report to the next meeting.
        on motion ordered that Mr. Randolph be a committee to wait upon Joshua Bond and ascertain from him
                    the price of the Book Case made by him in conformity to the order of June 19th 1809.
        Adjourned to Saturday next 3 oClock P. M.
        Saturday 15th September 1810
        Present: Parke; Johnston, VanderBurgh, 
            Randolph
          . There not being a sufficient number of Directors to form a Board
        Adjourned.
        Tuesday 13th Novr. 1810
        at a special meeting of the Directors present: B. Parke, prest.; John Johnston, Hy. 
            Vanderburgh
          , Chas. Smith, Thos. 
            Randolph
          .

        On motion order'd that the president of this board present a petition (which has been
                    prepar'd & agreed to) to the Legislature of this Tery. praying that the Library
                    Company  may be authorised to raise a sum of money not exceed
                    one thousand Dollars.15
        
        adjour'd until Is Saturd. Dec.
        Saturday November 24th 1810
        Special meeting of the Directors– present: B. Parke, Prest.; P. Jones, Jno. Johnson, H.
                    Vanderburgh, Jc. Kuy-kendall, Directors.
        On motion made & second'd the following scheme of a lottery, for the benefit of the
                    library for the purchase of books, was unanimously adopted viz.
        
          
            Vincennes
           Library Lottery. first class
        By authority of the Legislature of the Indiana Territory for raising one hundred Dollars (part of the
                    sum of $1000.) for the benifit of the 
            Vincennes
           Library; to commence drawing on the First day of February if the tickets should be
                    disposed of by that time.
        
          
            1
             prize
             of
            $100
            is
            100
            
          
          
            2
            "
            "
            30
            "
            60
            
          
          
            5
            "
            "
            20
            "
            100
            
          
          
            10
            "
            "
            5
            "
            50
            Not two blanks to a prize
          
          
            20
            "
            "
            3
            "
            60
            
          
          
            130
            "
            "
            1
            "
            130
            Prizes subject to a deduction of 20 Per Cent
          
          
            168
            Prizes
             
             
             
            500
            
          
          
            332
            Blanks
             
             
             
             
            
          
          
            500
            Tickets at one Dollr. is 500
             
          
        

        On motion orderd that B. Parke be authorised and required to contract with E. Stout on the best terms
                    he can procure, for printing the above mention'd lottery scheme–16 Order'd that the board adjourn until Wednesday next 3 oClock P.M.
        
          
            15 "AN ACT authorising a Lottery for the benefit of the 
              Vincennes
             Library" was approved by Governor Harrison on November 23, 1810. The law
                        empowered the president and directors to raise a sum not exceeding a total of $1,000,
                        required a $200 bond of each of the lottery managers, and permitted the managers to
                        adopt "such scheme or schemes as they think most expedient" to raise the
                        money. Louis B. Ewbank and Dorothy L. Riker (eds.), The Laws of Indiana Territory, 1809-1816
                        (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XX; 
              Indianapolis
            , 1934), 105-06.
          
            16 The above motion describing the lottery appeared in several issues of
                        the 
              Vincennes
             Western Sun, beginning with that of December 8, 1810.
        
        
        Wednesday 28th Nov. 1810
        At a special meeting, present: Park, Presd.; 
            Vanderburgh
          , Smith, 
            Randolph
          , Kuykendall, Jones, G. W. Johnston.
        on motion resolved that the President of this board be authorised to sign the tickets for the lottery
                    for & on behalf of the managers & that he distribute them in such manner as is best
                    calculated to secure their sale.
        adjourned.
        Saturday Is Deer. 1810
        Present: B. Parke, prest. There not being a board–
        adjnd.
        Saturday 5 Jany. 1811
        present: B. Park, prest.; T. Randolph.
        There not being a board.
        Adjourned.
        [January 8, 1811]
        Special meeting January 8th 1811 Present: Parke; Smith, VanderBurgh, Johnston, 
            Randolph
          .
        ordered that Henry Hurst be fined twelve and half cents for Damage done to the Book intitled the
                    "Simple Story."
        ordered That the Librarian retain of the money no-win his hands four dollars and sixty eight cents to
                    reimburse himself for sundries furnished the Library as per act. rendered and a ballance due him on
                    the Columbiad purchased of him for the Library.
        ordered That the Board do meet on Wednesday the 16 of this Inst, at 3 oClock in the
                    afternoon– and then the Board
        Adjourned.
        [January 16, 1811]
        Special meeting 16th Jany. 1811 present: Parke, Presd.; 
            Vanderburgh
          , Jno. Johnson, Genl. W. Johnston, P. Jones, Directrs.
        

        The following catalouge of Books, as proper to be purchased, was offered by the President
                        viz.–17 Rollins history of 
            Rome
          ; Gibbons decline and fall of the Roman Empire; Belshams history of 
            England
           from the year 1688 to 1801; Johnsons lives of the Poets; Russells ancient Europe; Popes
                    Works; Do. [Pope's] Translation of Homer; Miltons Paradise lost; Robertson's East
                    Indias; Life and writings of 
            Franklin
          ; Belknapps American biography; Washingtons letters to Arthur Young and Sir John St.
                    Clair; Andersons Essays on agriculture; Livingston on raising sheep; Debates on the adoption of the
                    constitution of the U. States by the Virginia convention; Schillers 30 years war in 
            Germany
          ; Watsons Phillip 2nd and 3d of 
            Spain
          ; Trumbles history, civil and Ecclesiastical of 
            Connecticut
          ; Hutchinsons history of 
            Massachusetts
          ; Brydones Tour; Cooks first and second voyages; Stauntons Embassy to 
            China
          ; Wraxalls history of 
            France
           from the accession of Henry 3d to the death of Louis 14th; Williams 
            Vermont
          ; Don Ulloa's Travels; Seutonius [?] translated by Thompson; Pleasures of
                    immigination by Akenside; Art of preserving health by Armstrong; Hawksworths translation of
                    Fenelon's Telemachus; Mungo Parkes travels in Africa; Lindsays travels in the Brazils;
                    Florians Gonsalvo with the conquest of 
            Grenada
           and history of the Moors of 
            Spain
          .
        on motion ordered That Mr. Geo. Wallace be authorised and requested to purchase in Philada. the books
                    above mentioned to the amount of one hundred and fifty dollars, begining at the head of the
                    list– The books to be well bound but of plain, cheap editions.
        on motion ordered that the Librarian subscribe for Stoddards Sketches historical and descriptive of 
            Louisiana
          .
        Adjourned to Saturday next.
        [January 19, 1811]
        Special meeting January 19th 1811 Present: Parke; Jones, Johnson, Smith, VanderBurgh.

        on motion ordered that the following books be added to the catalogue of Books to be furnished Mr.
                    Wallace for importation 
            
              17 To conserve space, this and future lists of books which the
                            directors selected for purchase have been recorded in series rather than the columns which
                            appear in the minutes. Semicolons indicate the ends of lines in the columns.
          
           viz., Lucians dialogues translated by Murphy; Marmontels
                    Memoirs written by himself; Burrs trial by Robinson; Dobsons life of Petrarch; Volneys travels in 
            Egypt
           and 
            Syria
          ; Sterns Works.
        ordered that the President advertise the next annual meeting of the shareholders of the Library.
        Adjourned.
        [February 2, 1811]
        Monthly meeting Feb. 2. 1811 present: Parke; Smith, VanderBurgh.
        There not being a sufficient number present to do business–
        adjourned.
        Monday February 4th 1811
        Annual Meeting of the shareholders of the 
            Vincennes
           Library Present: Ewing, McName, Stout, [William?] Lindsay, Beches, 
            Jordan
          , C. Smith, Vigo, A. Badollet, J. Badollet, Barnet, P. Jones, Harrison by P. Jones his
                    proxy, Buntin, Hay by P. Beches his proxy, G. W. Johnston, VanderBurgh, Parke, Baird by B. Parke his
                    proxy, 
            Randolph
           by Do. [Parke, proxy], Wallace by Do. [Parke, proxy], Small.
        The following amendments to the constitution were proposed, and being considered were severally
                    adopted–viz.–
        1. The price of shares shall be payable at the time of subscription.
        2 Each shareholder, hereafter, for each share he may possess, shall on the first day of January,
                    annually, pay a contribution of two dollars–provided, however, that this clause shall not
                    be construed to effect the contributions for the current year. If a contribution shall not be paid
                    as herein provided, a fine of twelve and half cents shall be incured, and for a delay of every
                    calendar month thereafter, a fine of twenty-five cents shall be exacted. Fines due for the detention
                    of books, as also for books lost or damaged shall be paid to the Librarian on the first day of
                    January annually.
        3. The President and directors may institute suits against delinquents, for the recovery of ballances
                    due from them, at such time or times as they may think most expedient.
        
        4. The shareholders at their annual meetings may proceed to declare the forfeiture of a share or
                    shares according to the provisions of the 8th article of the Constitution.
        5. Shareholders may, after paying all arrearages due, surrender their shares, either to the President
                    and Directors or to the shareholders at their annual meetings– Provided, that every
                    relinquishment of a share shall be in writing, and signed by the Shareholders– The said
                    relinquishment shall be preserved by the Librarian, and entered on the Journal.
        6. There shall hereafter be five Directors chosen annually, three of whom, or two with the President,
                    shall form a quorum.
        7. The President may call special meetings of the Directors as he may think necessary–,
                    and the President by order of the Directors shall call special meetings of the shareholders.
        8. The President shall give to each and every shareholder, requesting it, a certificate, attested by
                    the Librarian, of the share or shares subscribed for and holden by such share
                    holder,–which certificate shall be in the following form, viz.,
        "R. B. is intitled to one share in the
        "
            Vincennes
           Library, subscribed for by him
        
          
            "on the
            day of
            A. D. 18
            Given
          
          
            "under my hand this
            day of
             
            18
          
          
            "G. W. Librarian
             
             
            B. P. president"
          
        
        which certificate shall intitle the person to whom it is given, his assignee or legal representative
                    to all the advantages & priviledges designated in the By. Laws of the association.

        In order to ascertain who may be intitled to take books out of the Library, the Librarian shall keep
                    a transfer book,18–and no assignee, unless his name appears upon the
                    transfer book, and to have been bona fide entered, shall be considered in the light of a
                    shareholder, or suffered to take any book or books out of the Library.
        9. Share holders residing in 
            Vincennes

           shall be intitled to retain Duos. & Octavs. two weeks and quarts, and fols.
                    three weeks,–and shareholders residing in the Country shall be permitted to retain books
                    four weeks– And as a direction 
            
              18 No item titled "transfer book" has been found,
                            but in the editor's possession is a Xerox copy of a five-page "List of
                            share holders in the 
                Vincennes
               Library," which contains the names of 97 original shareholders, dates
                            the shares were acquired, number of shares, whether shares were forfeited or transferred,
                            and when and to whom transferred.
          
           to the Librarian the upper 
            Prairie
           adjoining the Village of 
            Vincennes
           is to be considered as comprised within the limitts of the said Village.
        On a motion made and seconded Resolved, that the annual contributions on the share owned by the late
                    Doctr. Samuel McKee be from this time suspended for the term of ten years, unless the executors of
                    the said Doer. McKee shall sooner think proper, to allow his children to take books from the
                    Library,–at which time the contributions shall recommence.
        The Share holders then proceeded to the election of officers for the ensuing year, when upon Counting
                    the ballots it appeared that the following persons were duly elected, Viz.–B. Parke,
                    President; G. W. Johnston, C. Smith, H. VanderBurgh, R. Buntin, J. Badollet, Directors; G. Wallace
                    Jr., Librarian.
        Ordered that when the meeting adjourns, it adjourn to the first Monday in march next at 2 oClock
                    P.M.–and then the meeting adjourned to the first Monday in March next at 2 oClock P. M.
        Saturday March 2. 1811
        Monthly meeting of the President & Directors Present: Parke; Badollet, VanderBurgh, Smith,
                    Directors.
        ordered, That the President and Directors do meet again on Thursday the 14th of this Inst, and then
                    the Board
        Adjourned.
        [March 4, 1811]
        Adjourned meeting of the Shareholders Monday March 4th 1811 Present: Barnet, Peter Jones, Kuykendall,
                    Lindsay, Hurst, Beckes, Johnston, Smith, Parke, McDonald.
        There not being a quorum
        adjourned.
        
          
            May
            1811
          
        
        Special Meeting of the President and Directors Present: Parke; Buntin, Johnston, Badollet.
        Mr. Wallace, the Librarian, under the orders of the Board of the 16 & 19th January last,
                    produced the following books, Viz.,
        
        
          
            Gibbon's 
                Rome
              
            
            8 vol.
            $20.00
          
          
            Johnson's lives
            2 "
            3.33
          
          
            Russell's Antient Europe
            2 "
            5.00
          
          
            Pope's Works
            6 "
            8.44
          
          
            Homer's Illiad
             
            1.35
          
          
            " Oddysey
             
            1.46
          
          
            
              
                Milton
              's Works
             
            .84
          
          
            Robertson's Indies
             
            1.67
          
          
            Franklins life
             
            .84
          
          
            Belknaps American Biography
            2 vol.
            3.33
          
          
            Livingston on Sheep
             
            .57
          
          
            Debates of the Virginia Convention
             
            2.92
          
          
            Schiller's 30 years War
            2
            6.97
          
          
            Hutchinson's History of
             
             
          
          
            
              
                Massachusetts
              
            
            2
            3.33
          
          
            Cook's Voyages
            2
            2.09
          
          
            Staunton's Embassy
             
            2.50
          
          
            Wraxall's history of 
                France
              
            
            3
            5.87½
          
          
            William's 
                Vermont
              
            
             
            1.67
          
          
            Thompson's Seutonius
             
            2.70
          
          
            Akenside's pleasures of the immagination
             
            .52
          
          
            Armstrong's art of preserving health
             
            .31
          
          
            Hawksworth's Telemachus
            2 vol.
            7.20
          
          
            Park's Travels
             
            2.50
          
          
            Florian's Gonsalvo
            2
            1.80
          
          
            Dobsons Petrarch
            2
            2.92
          
          
            Volneys travels in 
                Egypt
              
            
            2
            8.10
          
          
            Lauderdales Inquiry
             
            3.37½
          
          
             
             
            $101.61
          
          
            Box and cooperage
             
            .75
          
          
             
             
            $102 36
          
          
            Cr. by box deducted
             
             37½
          
          
            
            
            101.98½
          
          
            matting
             
             25
          
          
            cash paid F. & P. Kelly for Trunk
             
            2 00
          
          
            Porterage in 
                Philadelphia
              , Pittburgh and 
                Vincennes
              
            
             
             37½
          
          
            freight of Books from 
                Philadelphia
               to 
                Vincennes
               79 lbs. @ 10 cts. per lb.
             
            7.90
          
          
            Cash paid premium at 
                Louisville
               (3 Feb. 1811) on exchange of $67,57½ at 2½ per
                            cent
             
            1.70
          
          
             
             
            $ 12.22½
          
          
             
             
            $114.21
          
        
        ordered that the above sd. books be received & the account therefor as above stated, allowed.
        
        ordered that the Trunk in which the above mentioned books were packed for importation be & it
                    is here by given to Mr. Wallace.
        Ordered that the Board do meet again on Saturday the 18. of this Inst.
        and then the Board
        Adjourned.
        Saturday May 18th 1811
        Special meeting of President and Directors Present: Parke; Badollet, Johnston.
        The Board purchased of General 
            Washington
           Johnston the following books for the prices thereto annexed Viz.
        
          
            Rambler
            4 vol.
            $4.00
          
          
            Adventurer
            4 "
            4.00
          
          
            Denon's Travels
            2 "
            5.00
          
          
            Tookes Catherine
            2 "
            7.00
          
          
            Volneys Veiw
             
            3.50
          
          
            Washingtons Monuments of patriotism
             
            2.50
          
          
            Duncans Logic
             
            1.00
          
          
            Lavater on Physiognomy
             
            1.00
          
          
            Essay on crimes
             
            1.00
          
          
            Charms of Literature
             
            1.00
          
          
             
             
            $30.00
          
        
        Ordered that the Librarian receive and Deposite the above mentioned Books in the Library.
        The Board observing, that there were two sets of Pinker-tons Geography, together with
                    Morse's Geography and Guthrie's Grammar in the Library, ordered that the Librarian
                    do sell one set of Pinkertons Geography for thirteen dollars.
        G. W. Johnston proposed to take the work at that price– and the Librarian accordingly
                    delivered it to him.
        ordered that the Librarian do give G. W. Johnston a credit with the Library for the sum of Seventeen
                    dollars the ballance due him–and that he pay the same within six months from this day.
        Ordered that Joshua Bond have leave to subscribe for one share in the Library the price for which,
                    only, shall be placed to his Debit in his general account with the Library.
        Adjourned.
        
        Saturday 6th July 1811
        At a monthly meeting of the president & directors– present: B. Parke, Presd.; 
            Vanderburgh
          , Smith, Badollet, Buntin.
        Ordered'd that the Librarian do charge to the account of John McDonald twelve &
                    ½ cents for damage done to the 1st vol. of Rollins antient History.
        Order'd that Smith & Buntin be a committee to ascertain from Mr. Bond the price of
                    the Book case he last made for the use of the library & report at next meeting.
        Adjourned.
        Saturday Jany. 4th 1812
        Monthly meeting of the President and Directors Present: Parke; Johnston.
        There not being a Board
        adjourned.
        Wednesday Jany. 8th 1812
        Special meeting of the President & Directors Present: Parke; Johnston, Johnson.
        On motion Ordered unanimously that the Librarian Do sell the Edition of Telemachus now in the Library
                    for Eight Dollars.
        General W. Johnston agreed to take the said work at that price–and the Librarian delivered
                    it to him accordingly.
        Adjourned.
        February 1st 1812
        Monthly meeting of the President and Directors Present: Parke; Smith, Buntin.
        There not being any business before the Board
        Adjourned.
        Monday February 3d 1812
        Annual meeting of the 
            Vincennes
           Library Company Present: Ben. Parke, Presd.; Henry 
            Vanderburgh
          , Charles Smith, E. Stout, Josha. Bond, Ben Beckes Senr., Albert Badollet,  Wm. Lindsey, John D. Hay repstd. [by] S[amuel?] Hay, Wm. H. Harrison
                    [represented by] B. Parke, Late Thos. Jones jr. [represented by] J. McClure; Geo. Wallace jr., Libn.
        The Share holders proceeded to the election of officers & upon Counting the ballots the
                    following persons were duly elected for the ensuing year B. Parke, Presd.; G. W. Johnston, Jno.
                    Badollet, Hy. 
            Vanderburgh
          , Jno. D. Hay, Permenes Beckes; Geo. Wallace, Librarian.
        On motion seconded Order'd that after the 1st day of April next each share subscribed for
                    after that day shall be eight Dollars.
        Order'd that Joshua Bond be allowed a Credit in his account of thirty five Dollars for a
                    Walnut book case furnished some time since & that the said Bond be permitted to subscribe
                    for two additional Shares on this Day,–the price of which to be placed to his debit.
        Saturday 7th March 1812
        Monthly Meeting Present: Parke. No quorum.
        April 4th 1812
        Monthly meeting Present: Parke. No quorum.
        Tuesday May 26th 1812
        Special meeting of the President and Directors– Present: Parke; Badollet, Beckes, Hay,
                    Johnston.
        Henry VanderBurgh one of the Directors of the Library having lately died the Directors proceeded to
                    the election of a member to supply the vacancy occasioned by his Death–when on counting
                    the ballots it appeared that Edward Scull was duly elected.

        On motion ordered That G. W. Johnston and John D. Hay be a Committee to wait on the Rev. Mr. [Samuel
                    Thornton] Scott & ascertain from him whether the Books belonging  to the 
            Vincennes
           Library could be placed conveniently in the University building.19
        
        ordered that the Board do meet again on Monday next at 2 oClock P. M.
        And then the Board
        Adjourned.
        Monday June 1st 1812
        Special meeting Present: Parke; Johnston. There not being a quorum
        Adjourned.
        Saturday [June] 6th 1812
        Monthly meeting Present: Ben Parke. There being no quorum.
        Monday Feby. 1st 1813
        Anual meeting of the share holders of the 
            Vincennes
           Library Present: Parke; Smith, Beckes, Ewing, Lindsay, Kuykendall, Stout, A. Badollet.
        The share holders then proceded to the election of officers for the ensuing year, when upon counting
                    the Ballots it apear'd that persons were duly elected Viz. B. Parke, Presd.; P. Beckes, C.
                    Smith, E. Scull, J. Kuykendall, J. Badollett, Directors; Geo. Wallace, Librarn.
        On motion Resolv'd that the President & directors of the 
            Vincennes

           Library Co. be authorised to apply to the Legislature for a renual of the charter of
                    incorporation of said company and to procure the passage of a Law sanctioning the procedings of the
                    shareholders President & Directors of the 
            
              19 Scott had been employed by the 
                Vincennes
               University trustees to conduct a grammar school in the recently completed
                            university building. The above matter may have been discussed directly with Scott since no
                            reference to it has been found in the minutes of the University trustees. The minutes of
                            February 11, 1837, report the appointment of a committee "to confer with the Board
                            of Trustees and principal of the 
                Vincennes
               Academy upon the subject and terms of the removal of the Library to the Academy
                            building." Although no reference to such a conference has been found in the minutes
                            of the 
                Vincennes
               University board, satisfactory arrangements apparently were made since the
                            library was moved in August, 1837. Minutes, February 5, 1838.
          
           company since the forfeiture of their charter and so far to
                    have the incorporation act alterd as to authorise the choosing of five instead of seven directors to
                    transact the business of the company.20
        
        Resolved That the Librarian be and he is hereby authorised to deliver books to the members of the
                    Legislature during the session of that body gratis provided however that members taking books as
                    aforsaid shall as to the time of detention, damage or loss of them, be subject to the same rules as
                    are provided in respect to shareholders.
        Adjourn'd to Wednesday 17th instant at 1 oclock P. M.
        [February 1, 1813]
        Special Meeting of the President & directors Feby. 1st 1813 Present: B. Parke, Presd.; P.
                    Beckes, C. Smith, J. Kuykendall.
        It being stated by the Librarian, that the 2 vol. of the fool of Quality, taken out on Mark Barnets
                    share had been lost– Order'd that Mark Barnet pay to the Librarian two Dollars,
                    the price of the work he being entitled to take the remaining volumes.
        The Librarian states also that Doct. E. Scull had lost the History of the court of St. Cloud abook
                    belonging to the Library Order'd that Edw. Scull pay to the Librarian One Dollar &
                    fifty cents that, being the value of said book.
        The Librarian stating to the board the damage Currans Speeches (taken out of the Library on Henry
                    Hursts share) had sustaind. Order'd that Henry Hurst pay to the Librarian twenty five cents
                    on ace. thereof.
        The Librarian stating the damage the Charms of Literature (taken out on Tousaint Dubois share) had
                    sustaind Order'd that Tousaint Dubois pay to the Librarian fifty cents on account thereof.

        The Librarian stating the damage the 6th vol. of select novels (taken out on C. Graeters share) had
                    sustaind 
            
              20 An act providing for renewal of the charter and reduction of the
                            number of directors from seven to five was approved by Governor John Gibson on February 15,
                            1813. Ewbank and Riker, Laws of Indiana Territory, 1809-1816, pp. 297-98. Apparently the
                            original charter was considered to have been forfeited by the action of the annual meeting
                            of February 4, 1811, when one of several amendments adopted by the shareholders reduced the
                            number of directors to five.
          
           Orderd that C. Graeter pay the Librarian fifty cents on account
                    thereof.
        The Librarian stating the damage the 1st vol. of An-acharsis (taken out of the Library on John F.
                    Thompsons share) had sustaind Orderd that John F. Thompson pay to the Librarian seventy five cents
                    on ace. thereof.
        The President offerd a draft of a petition to the Legislature conformably to the resolution of the
                    share holders of this day which being approv'd of was order'd to be presented by
                    the President.
        Adjourned untill to morrow Evening.
        Tuesday Evening Feb. 2d 1813
        Special meeting of the President & Directors Prest.: Parke; Kuykendall, Scull.
        on motion ordered that the Librarian Contract with William Jones for the purchase of the following
                    books, Viz., Thucydides by Smith; Demosthenes by Leland; Cicero's Orations by Guthrie;
                    Drydens Virgil; Millo[t]'s Elements of Antient History; Rollins History of 
            Rome
          –[and] if this cannot be got–Hookes Roman History; Tookes Hy. of
                    Russia; Watsons Phillip 2d & 3d of 
            Spain
          ; Telemachus by Hawks-worth; Lindsays travels in the Brazils; Marmontelles Memoirs by
                    himself; Andersons Essays on agriculture; Boileaus letters & reflections on Prince De Linge;
                    Coxes travels in 
            Switzerland
          ; Abbe Clavigaor [?] History of 
            Mexico
          ; Charles 12th of 
            Sweden
          ; Lord Littletons Letters; Washingtons Letters to Arthur Young & Sir John St.
                    Clair; Warrens american revolution; Tom Jones by Fielding; Tristam Shandy; Watsons answer to Gibbon;
                    Klopstocks Messiah; Newtons History of the Bible; Coxes view of the U. States; Sully's
                    Memoirs; Tiganmouths [?] Life of Sir Will Jones; Beunapartes campaign in 
            Italy
          ; Do Do [Bonaparte's Campaign] in prussia, Saxony & 
            Poland
          ; Caldwells answer to the above; Stewarts elements of the Philosophy of the human mind;
                    Wilsons 
            Egypt
          ; Humes Essays; Robertsons History of 
            Scotland
          ; Count Fathom; Lady of the Lake [and] The lay of the last minstrell by Walter Scott
                    Esqr.; Tookes pantheon; Xenophon by Smith; Browns Dicty. of the Bible; Smiths Philospl. works;
                    Tassos Jerusalem; Burrs trial by Robertson; Furgesons Astronomy; Belshams Hy. of 
            England
           from 1688 to 1801; Brydens Tour;  Trunbles Hy.
                    civil & Ecclesiastical of Conneticutt; Don Ulloas Travels; Acerbi's Travels through 
            Sweden
            Finland
           & Lapland to the north Cape in 1798 & 9; Hopkinsons Essays &
                    occasional writings; Smith on the Complexions of the human species.
        Adjourned.
        Feb. 16th 1813
        Special meeting of the President and Directors– Present: Parke; Scull, Smith.

        ordered, that the President give publick notice in the Western Sun, to all persons in arrear to the
                    Library to pay up their delinquencies on or before the fifteenth day of March
                    next–otherwise that suit shall be instituted there for.21
        
        Adjourned.
        Feb. 17th 1813
        Adjourned meeting of the shareholders Present: Kuy-kendall, P. Beckes, G. W. Johnston, Jno. Jonhson,
                    [Samuel] Parr, Buntin, A. Badollet, Scott, McNaMee, Scull, Lindsay, P. Jones, Smith, Parke, Stout by
                    Parke his proxy, Vigo, Ewing, Barnet, Dubois.
        The President laid before the meeting a draft of the Constitution of the 
            Vincennes
           Library Company as altered and amended since the adoption of the original rules for the
                    government of the same, on the 2nd August 1806, with a view to the incorporation of the said
                    amendments and publishing the whole for the better information of the shareholders–and
                    the same being twice read and considered, a motion was made and seconded that the meeting do agree
                    to and adopt the same as the "Rules for the Government of the 
            Vincennes
           Library Company," and the question being put it was Resolved unanimously in
                    the affirmative–as followeth, Viz.,
        
          
            21 The 
              Vincennes
             Western Sun, February 27, 1813, carried a notice over the name of "B.
                        Parke, President of the Library," asking all persons owing money to the library company
                        to pay the librarian the balances due, and warning that suits would be brought against those
                        still in arrears after March 15.
        
        
        Rules for the Government of the 
            Vincennes
           Library Company
        1st There shall be one hundred shares ¢ eight dollars each payable, at the time of
                    subscription, in specie or in such books, & at such price as the president and directors,
                    (to be appointed as herein after mention'd) shall judge proper. 2d Each share holder, for
                    every share he may possess, shall on the first day of Jany., annually, pay a contribution of two
                    dollars and in default thereof a fine of twelve and an half cents, shall be
                    incur'd–and for a delay of every callendar month thereafter, a fine of twenty
                    five cents, shall be exacted–Fines due for the detention, damage, or loss, of books, as
                    herein provided shall be paid to the Librarian on the first day of Jany. anually.
        3d There shall be a general meeting of the shareholders on the first monday in Feby. anually, when
                    the[y] shall take into consideration the general interests of the company and elect the necessary
                    officers– No determinate number of shareholders shall be necessary to form a quorum,
                    except at special or adjourn'd meetings therof, when one fourth of the whole numbers of
                    shares shall be represented– Each shareholder shall have a vote for every Share he holds
                    and pays for and shall have a right to vote by proxy–however no other than a written
                    proxy shall be allowed– I [n] case a general meeting shall not be held on the day stated
                    as aforsaid the officers then acting shall continue the excercise of their functions as, such,
                    untill the next general anual meeting of the share holders.
        4th A president & five directors and a Librarian shall be chosen anually at the general
                    meeting. The president [and] directors shall hold a meeting on the first Saturday in every
                    month– It shall be their duty to carry into effect all such rules as may be adopted by
                    the company–and shall have power to make from time to time bye laws for the better
                    government of the company which shall be laid before the share holders & be in force untill
                    the next anual meeting and afterwards, unless rejected at such meeting.

        The president and directors shall judge of the fittness of books offerd in payment of
                    shares–and shall purchase at the cheapest rates, as the funds of the company may enable
                    them such books, maps, &c. as they may think necessary and proper for the
                    Library– The president shall preside  at the anual
                    meetings In case of the death or resignation of any of the directors, the remaining directors shall
                    fill up the vacancy untill the next general or special meeting of the shareholders– Three
                    directors or two with the president shall form a quorum– should the Presd. die or resign
                    the directors shall ellect one pro temp for the current year.
        The Presd. may call special meetings of the directors, as he may think necessary– and the
                    President by order of directors may call special meetings of the shareholders.
        The President shall give to each shareholder requesting it a certificate, attested by the Librarian,
                    of the share or shares subscribed for or holden by such shareholder which certificate shall be in
                    the following form Viz.
        
          
            "R. B. is entitled to one share in the 
                Vincennes
               Library subscribed by him on the
            Day of
          
          
            "18 Given under my hand this
            Day of
          
          
            "18
            B. P. president
          
          
            "G. W. Librarian
             
          
        
        which certificate shall entitle the person to whom it is given his assignee or legall representative
                    to all the advantages & priviledges designated in the Bye Laws of the Library.

        The President and directors may institute suits against delinquents, for the recovery of ballances
                    due from them at such time or times as they may think expedient. 5th It shall be the duty of the
                    Librarian to demand and receive all monies fines &c. belonging to or due the Library
                    company–and pay the same on an order of the Presd. and directors– he shall act
                    as Secretary to the meetings of the share-holders and to the President & directors and keep
                    a regular Journal of their proceedings as also a regular account of his receipts and disbursments
                    and shall lay the same before the shareholders at their anual meetings as also the President
                    & directors whenever thereunto required by them– He shall have the charge of the
                    books, maps &c. belonging to the company and Keep a book properly in which shall be noted
                    the time of delivery of books &c. to share-holders or their agents and the time of return
                    thereof noting also delinquencies as to the loss or damage of books– He shall also
                    receive Keep and arrange in systematical order as well all such specimens of ores, minerals,
                    fossils, and other natural curiosities as shall be deliver'd to him–as also such
                    essays &  communications as may tend to throw light on
                    the natural and civil history of the Western Country and of the aborigines thereof.
        6th The Library shall be open every wednessday and Saturday, from ten in the morning untill four 0
                    Clock in the evening for the delivery and return of books to and from subscribers– And
                    the librarian in discharge of the duties enjoined on him shall strictly observe the following rules
                    Viz.
        1st Each share shal entitle the share holder to one book at a time.
        2d shareholders residing in 
            Vincennes
           shall be entitled to retain Duos. & Octos. two weeks and quartos &
                    folios three weeks– And share holders residing in the country shall be permitted to
                    retain books four weeks– The upper prairie adjoining 
            Vincennes
           is not to be consider'd as comprised within the limits of the said village.
        3d If a book is not returnd at the times respectively before mention'd a fine of six
                    & % cents shall be incur'd by subscriber occasioning such detention and twelve
                    & 1/2 cents for duos. & octos. and twenty five cents for quarto's &
                    folio's for every week thereafter.
        4th If a book is injured the Librarian shall be careful to note it on its return and the Presd.
                    & directors shall assess the fine to remunerate such damage.
        5th If a book be lost, or so injur'd, as, in the opinion of the president &
                    directors, to become useless, the subscriber, losing or injuring it as aforesaid shall account for
                    its value only, unless the book so lost or damaged shall belong to a sett, when the whole number
                    shall be accounted for– provided however that the subscriber paying for a sett so broken,
                    shall be entitled to the remaining volumes– The Presd. & directors shall appraise
                    the books belonging to library at reasonable price a memo [?] whereof shall be preserv'd by
                    the Librarian.
        6th No maps or manuscrips shall be taken out of the Library but by the special permission of the
                    President and directors–but each subscriber shall have the priviledge of perusing them
                    during the time the Library shall be open and further that when a map forms a part of any particular
                    book or books it may be taken in the same manner that other books are.
        
        7th The Librarian shall keep a book for recording the transfer of shares and no person other than an
                    original subscriber or his assignee or representative shall have the use of any of the books of the
                    Library– Provided that the members of both houses of the Legislature during the sessions
                    of [that] body shall be permitted to take books gratis–subject however as to the time of
                    detention, loss, or damage of books to the foregoing rules.
        7th On a failure or refusal by a subscriber in paying the anual contributions or the fine, or fines
                    that may be assessed for the detention, loss, or damage, of books or any other fine or fines penalty
                    or penalties on the day within the time prescribed herein, The share holders may proceed, at their
                    anual meetings to declare the forfeiture of the share or shares which shall belong to such
                    delinquent subscribers.
        8th Share-holders may after paying all arrearages due the library company, surrender their shares
                    either to the Presd & directors, or to the share holders, at their anual
                    meeting–provided that every relinquishment of a share shall be in writing and
                    sign'd by the share holder.
        The said relinquishment shall be preserved by the Librarian and enterd on the Journal.
        9th No share holder shall sell or transfer his share untill all arrears due on such share shall be
                    paid & then the trans-ferre shall become a share holder in form and fact.
        10th No share holder shall lend a book to be read out of his own house under the penalty of twenty
                    five cents for every book so lent.
        11th Elections of officers shall be by ballot–all other questions shall be decided Viva
                    Voce.
        It was then on motion made & seconded Resolved that one hundred coppies of the aforsaid rules
                    be printed–to be distributed among the share holders, one to each & that the
                    President is hereby authorised to have the same printed upon the best terms he can.
        Adjourned.
        [May 1, 1813]
        Monthly Meeting of the President & Directors–May 1. 1813 Present: Parke;
                    Kuykendall, Scull.
        adjourned.
        
        [May 24, 1813]
        Special meeting May 24th 1813 Present: Ben Parke, Presd.; Jac. Kuykendall, Edward Scull, Directrs.
        The following books being Purchased at the prices annexed by Will Jones Esqr. and deliverd to the
                    Librn. Viz.
        
          
            Browns Dictionary of the Bible
            2 vols.
            $6.30
          
          
            Robertsons 
                Scotland
              
            
             
            4.50
          
          
            Coxes 
                Switzerland
              
            
             
            4.50
          
          
            Millots History
            4 vols.
            9.
          
          
            Stewarts Philosophy
             
            2.
          
          
            Smiths Essays
             
            2.25
          
          
            Littletons Letters
             
            1.50
          
          
            Furgusons Astronomy
             
            3.25
          
          
            Andersons Agriculture
             
            1.80
          
          
            Life of Sir Will Jones
             
            2.50
          
          
            Washingtons Letters
            2 vols.
            2.25
          
          
            Coxes View
             
            .80
          
          
            Charles the twelfth
             
            1.12
          
          
            Klopstocks Messiah
            2 vols.
            1.80
          
          
            Tookes Pantheon
             
            1.25
          
          
            Marmontels Memoirs
            2 vols.
            1.80
          
          
            Count Fathom
             
            1.12
          
          
            Prince De Ligne
             
            1.
          
          
            Tom Jones
            4 vols.
            3.60
          
          
            Drydens Virgil
            2 vols.
            2.
          
          
            Rollins Ant. History
            8 vols.
            9.
          
          
            Lady of the Lake
             
            1.
          
          
            Lay of the Last Minstrel
             
            1.
          
          
            Box & Cooperage
             
            .75
          
          
             
             
            $66.09
          
        
        Orderd that he receive and place the same in the Library.
        Rollins Ant. history and Washingtons Letters having been purchased by mistake, there being a sett of
                    each in the Library– Orderd that the Libraian be–& he is hereby
                    authorised and directed to sell them for cost & carriage.
        Orderd that the Librarian place to the credit of Elias McNamee $1.50 for Rode[r]ick Random
                    this day Purchased of him.
        adjourned.
        June 6th 1813
        Monthly meeting of the Presd. & directors Present: B. Parke, Prest.; E. Scull, J. Kuykendall.
        
        Ordered that the Librarian contract for the purchase, to the amount of one hundred and forty Dollars,
                    of the following books,–taking them in the order in which they stand in the
                    list–care will be taken to select editions the paper and printing of which are
                    neat–and the binding good– Books in boards– hot-pressed, gilt
                    binding will not be received– Thucydides–by Smith; Demosthenes by Leland;
                    Cicero's orations by Guthrie; Rollins history of 
            Rome
          –if this cannot be found Hookers Roman history; Belshams history of 
            England
           from 1688 to 1801–if this cannot be got–Continuation of Hume by
                    Smollet & others; Tookes History of Russia; Watsons Phillip 2nd & 3d of 
            Spain
          ; Brydons Tour; Trumbles history Civil & Ecclesiastical of 
            Connecticut
          ; Telemachus by Hawksworth; Don Ulloas travels; Lindsays travels in the Brazils;
                    Acerbi's travels through 
            Sweden
          , Findland & Lapland to the North Cape in 1798-9; Clavigeros history of 
            Mexico
          ; Washingtons Letters to Arthur Young & Sir Jno. St. Clair; Warrens American
                    Revolution; Tristam Shandy; Watsons answer to Gibbon; Newtons history of the Bible; Hopkinsons
                    Essays and occasional Writings; Sullys Memoirs; Buonapartes Campaign in 
            Italy
          ; Do. [Bonaparte's Campaign] in Pussia Saxony & 
            Poland
          ; Caldwells answer to Smith on the complexion of the human Species; Wilsons 
            Egypt
          ; Humes Essays; Xenophen by Smith; J.[?] J.[?] Smiths philosophical works;
                    Tasso's Jerusalem; Burrs trial by Robinson; Morses Universal Gazetteer; Azunis Maritime law
                    of Europe; Adams philosophy; Adams Roman antiquities; Bartons view of the origin of the tribes
                    & nations of N. America; Paleys Moral philosophy; Bel-isarius by Madame Genlis; Bloomfields
                    poems; Dumouriers Memoirs; Ferguson on Civil Society; Debates on the repeal of the U. S. Judiary law
                    in Senate and H. of Rep.; The political Works of Jno. Dickenson; Gallatin on finance; Malthus on
                    population; De Lome on the British Constitution; Niebuhr travels; Life and Works of Robert Burns;
                    Burks history of 
            Virginia
          ; Rhd. Cumberlands memoirs written by himself; Madame Maintenons letters; St. Pierres
                    Studies of Nature; Marquis De Salvo's travels in 1806; Peyroses [?] voyage round the world;
                    Blounts Impeachment; Pindars poetical works; Young on agriculture; [Young] Northern tour; [Young]
                    Southern Do. [Tour]; [Young] Eastern Do. [Tour]; [Young] travels; [Young] Farmers guide.
        Adjourned.
        
        [July 3, 1813]
        Monthly meeting Saturday July 3d 1813 Present: Parke; Smith, Kuykendall.
        ordered that the Librarian procure an account Book for the use of the Library.
        ordered, that the Librarian be and he is here by authorised to purchase Sullys Memoirs, Adams Defence
                    of the american Constitutions, Rassellas Dinarbis & Coelebs.
        The Librarian produced in conformity to the proceeding order the following books, viz.,
        
          
            Sullys memoirs
             $9.00
          
          
            Adams Defence
             6.00
          
          
            Rassellas
            0.87½
          
          
            Dinarbis
             0.87½
          
          
            Coelebs
            1.50
          
          
             
            $18.25
          
        
        Ordered that the above said Books be received and by the Librarian be placed in the Library and he
                    have a credit there for in his cash account.
        The Librarian having procured an acct. Book for the use of the Library ordered, that he have a credit
                    of Two Dollars therefore
        
          
            $ 2.
          
          
            $20.25
          
        
        adjourned.
        [August 7, 1813]
        Monthly meeting of the President & Directors Saturday August 7th 1813 Present: Parke; Smith,
                    Kuykendall.
        Ordered, that the Librarian have a credit of thirteen Dollars, in his cash account, for Josephus in 4
                    V. and Burns Works in 3 V., this day purchased of him and by him placed in the Library.
        The President and Directors then proceeded to value the books belonging to the Library, as follows,
                    Viz.,
        
          
            No.
             
             
            D. Cts.
          
          
            1
            Lelands Phillip of Macedon
             
            4.
          
          
            2-3
            Robertsons History of America
            2 V.
            10.
          
          
            4-5
            Maimbourgh's history of Arianism
            2 v.
            3.
          
          
            6-10
            Dictionary of Arts and Sciences
            5 v.
            6.
          
          
            11-13
            Reids Essays
            3 v.
            10.
          
          
          
            14
            Atwood on Rectilinear motion
             
            1.
          
          
            15-16
            Guthrie's Grammar
            2 v.
            6.
          
          
            17-18
            Blairs Lectures
            2 v.
            5.
          
          
            19
            Vattels Law of Nations
             
            2.
          
          
            20-1
            Witherspoons Works
            2 v.
            3.50
          
          
            22-3
            Millers Retrospect
            2 v.
            6.
          
          
            24-5
            Morse's Geography
            2 v.
            4.
          
          
            26-7
            Pinkertons Geography with maps
            2 v.
            13.50
          
          
            28-35
            World displayed
            8 v.
            16.
          
          
            36-41
            Humes 
                England
              
            
            6 v.
            9.
          
          
            42
            French Revolution
             
            1.50
          
          
            43-5
            Robertsons Charles 5th
            3 v.
            4.
          
          
            46
            Jefferson's Notes on Virg. with apdx.
             
            2.
          
          
            47
            Ossians Poems
             
            2.
          
          
            48
            Andrews Views
             
            2.50
          
          
            49
            Gatteaus 
                Sweden
              
            
             
            2.50
          
          
            50
            McKenzies Voyages
             
            2.
          
          
            51-2
            Politicks for the people
            2 v.
            2.
          
          
            53-4
            Julians Works
            2 v.
            3.
          
          
            55
            Miscellanies
             
            1.
          
          
            56
            Hume's Dialogues
             
            2.
          
          
            57
            Humphreys Works
             
            2.
          
          
            58
            Spurriers Practical Farmer
             
            1.50
          
          
            59
            Phylosophic Essays
             
            .50
          
          
            60
            Annual Register
             
            1.
          
          
            61-2
            Washingtons Letters
            2 v.
            2.
          
          
            63-5
            Hooper's Universal Erudition
            3 v.
            3.
          
          
            66
            Essays on the passions & affections
             
            1.50
          
          
            67-70
            Goldsmiths Animated Nature
            4 v.
            8.
          
          
            71-2
            Varlows Husbandry
            2 v.
            2.
          
          
            73
            Priestley's Lectures
             
            3.50
          
          
            74
            Ladies Companion
             
            2.
          
          
            75
            Tucker on Slavery
             
            .75
          
          
            76-9
            Eloisa
            4 v.
            4.
          
          
            80
            Beauties of Hervey
             
            .75
          
          
            81
            Herveys Meditations
             
            1.
          
          
            82-3
            Mirabeau's Gallery of Portraits
            2 v.
            2.50
          
          
            84-7
            Thompsons Works
            4 v.
            4.
          
          
            88
            Thompsons Seasons
             
            .75
          
          
            89
            Confession of Faith
             
            1.
          
          
            90
            Do. Do.
             
            1.
          
          
            91
            Do. Do.
             
            1.
          
          
            92-4
            Smiths Wealth of Nations
            3 v.
            3.75
          
          
            95-8
            Chesterfields Letters
            4 v.
            6.
          
          
            99
            Voltaires Physolophical Dictionary
             
            1.25
          
          
            100
            Dr. Derhams Sermons
             
            .75
          
          
            101-'12
            Shakespears Plays
            12 v.
            16.
          
          
            113-'20
            Spectator
            8 v.
            8.
          
          
            121-2
            Hapless orphan
            2 v.
            1.50
          
          
            123-4
            Essays and Letters
            2 v.
            1.
          
          
          
            125-6
            Adams Travels
            2 v.
            1.25
          
          
            127
            Junius
             
            1.
          
          
            128
            Gaudentia De Lucco
             
            .50
          
          
            129-'30
            Washingtons Letters
            2 v.
            1.50
          
          
            131-2
            
              
                Knox
              's Essays
            2 v.
            2.
          
          
            133-4
            Do. Do.
            2 v.
            2.
          
          
            135
            Beggar Boy
             
            .75
          
          
            136-7
            Daughter of Adoption
            2 v.
            2.50
          
          
            138-'40
            Mysteries of Udolpho
            3 v.
            2.25
          
          
            141-4
            Gil Bias
            4 v.
            3.00
          
          
            145-7
            Dramatic Miscellanies
            3 v.
            2.25
          
          
            148
            Simple Story
             
            1.
          
          
            149-'51
            Beggar Girl
            3 v.
            1.50
          
          
            152-3
            Beauties of History
            2 v.
            2.50
          
          
            154
            Vagabond
             
            .75
          
          
            155
            Goldsmiths History of 
                Rome
              
            
             
            1.
          
          
            156-7
            Mahomets Travels
            2 v.
            1.50
          
          
            158
            Asgills Tracts
             
            .75
          
          
            159
            Carvers Travels
             
            1.25
          
          
            160
            Lectures on Female Education
             
            .75
          
          
            161-3
            Lockes Essays
            3 v.
            4.50
          
          
            164
            Goldsmiths 
                England
              
            
             
            1.
          
          
            165
            Scotts U. S. Gazetteer
             
            1.50
          
          
            166-7
            Arabian Nights Entertainment
            2 v.
            1.
          
          
            168-9
            Marmontells Memoirs
            2 v.
            2.50
          
          
            170
            Tookes Pantheon
             
            1.50
          
          
            171-2
            Plain Sense
            2 v.
            1.
          
          
            173-5
            Abbess
            3 v.
            2.
          
          
            176-7
            Edward
            2 v.
            1.
          
          
            178
            Leland on Eloquence
             
            .87¢
          
          
            179
            Goldsmiths Poems
             
            1.25
          
          
            180
            Man of the World
             
            1.
          
          
            181
            Broad Grins
             
            .50
          
          
            182
            Moreau's Life
             
            1.20
          
          
            183
            Blairs Lectures abridged
             
            1.
          
          
            184
            Modern Chivalry
             
            1.25
          
          
            185
            Charlotte Temple
             
            .50
          
          
            186
            Moores Utopia
             
            .50
          
          
            187
            Joan of Arc
             
            .50
          
          
            188
            Condorcets Life of Voltaire
             
            1.
          
          
            189
            Robinson Crusoe
             
            .50
          
          
            190
            Juvenal's Satyrs
             
            1.50
          
          
            191
            Morse's Geography abridged
             
            1.25
          
          
            192-3
            Drydens Poems
            2 v.
            1.75
          
          
            194-5
            Do. Do.
            2
            2.
          
          
            196
            Melmoths Essays
             
            .50
          
          
            197
            Military History
             
            1.25
          
          
            198-9
            Horace in French
            2 v.
            1.50
          
          
            200-1
            Literary Miscellanies
            2
            1.50
          
          
          
            202-3
            Introduction to the History of 
                Denmark
              , in French
            2v.
            1.
          
          
            204-8
            Principles of Literature, in French
            5v.
            2.
          
          
            209
            Seneca's Morals
             
            1.
          
          
            210
            Curran's Speeches
             
            2.
          
          
            211-12
            Tookes Catherine
            2v.
            7
          
          
            213-17
            Russells Modern Europe
            5v.
            15
          
          
            218-21
            Anacharsis
            4v.
            9
          
          
            222-7
            Langhorn's Plutarch
            6v.
            9
          
          
            228
            Bruce's Travels
             
            1.50
          
          
            229
            Charles 12th of 
                Sweden
              
            
             
            1.50
          
          
            230-'42
            Works of Frederick the Great
            13v.
            50
          
          
            243-7
            Marshal's Life of 
                Washington
              
            
            5v.
            25
          
          
            248-'51
            Gillies' 
                Greece
              
            
            4v.
            15
          
          
            252-3
            Smiths Theory of Moral Sentiment
            2v.
            5
          
          
            254
            Smiths History of 
                New York
              
            
             
            2.50
          
          
            255-6
            Federalist
            2v.
            6.
          
          
            257-9
            Blair's Sermons
            3v.
            9.
          
          
            260
            Barrows Travels
             
            3.
          
          
            261-2
            Memoirs of Pope Pius 6th
            2v.
            5
          
          
            263-5
            Rosco's Life of Lorenzo
            3v.
            9.
          
          
            266-9
            Do. Do. Leo 10th
            4v.
            12.
          
          
            270-4
            Plowdens 
                Ireland
              
            
            5v.
            15.
          
          
            275-6
            Stephens French Wars
            2v.
            8.
          
          
            277
            Stranger in 
                Ireland
              
            
             
            1.50
          
          
            278
            Charms of Literature
             
            1.
          
          
            279-'86
            Rollins Ancient History
             
            8v.
            12.
          
          
            287-9
            Marmontel's Tales
            3v.
            5.
          
          
            290
            Ildegerti
             
            .75
          
          
            291-303
            Select Novels
            13v.
            16.25
          
          
            304
            Horrors of St. Domingo
             
            1.
          
          
            305-6
            olumbiad
            2v.
            4.
          
          
            307-8
            Military Library
            2v.
            8.
          
          
            309-16
            Gibbons 
                Rome
              
            
            8v.
            25.
          
          
            317-9
            Wraxalls 
                France
              
            
            3v.
            9.
          
          
            320-1
            Russell's Antient Europe
            2v.
            6.50
          
          
            322-3
            Hutchinsons 
                Massachusetts
              
            
            2v.
            5.
          
          
            324-5
            Johnson's Lives of the Poets
            2v.
            5.
          
          
            326
            Lauderdales Enquiry
             
            4.
          
          
            327
            Thompson's Seutonius
             
            3.50
          
          
            328
            Stauntons Embassy
             
            3.50
          
          
            329
            Virginia Debates
             
            4.
          
          
            330
            Williams History of 
                Vermont
              
            
             
            2.50
          
          
            331-2
            Schillers 30 years War
            2v.
            8.
          
          
            331-2
            Schillers 30 years War
            2v.
            10.
          
          
            333-4
            Volney's 
                Egypt
              
            
            2 v.
            10
          
          
            335
            Robertson's E. India
             
            2.
          
          
            336-7
            Priestley's Lecturs
            2v.
            3.
          
          
            338
            Parkes Travels
             
            3.
          
          
            339-40
            Belknaps Biography
            2v.
            5.
          
          
            341-6
            Popes Works
            6v.
            10.
          
          
          
            347
            Do. Odyssy
             
            2.
          
          
            348
            Do. Homer
             
            2.
          
          
            349-50
            Dobson's Petrarch
            2 v.
            4.
          
          
            351-2
            Gonsalvo of Cordova
            2 v.
            2.50
          
          
            353
            Franklins Works
             
            1.25
          
          
            354-5
            Cook's Voyages
            2 v.
            3.
          
          
            356
            Miltons Works
             
            1.25
          
          
            357
            Akenside's pleasures of the Immagination
             
            .75
          
          
            358
            Livingston on Sheep
             
            .75
          
          
            359
            Armstrongs Art of Preserving Health
             
            .50
          
          
            360-3
            Rambler
            4 v.
            4.
          
          
            364-7
            Adventurer
            4 v.
            4.
          
          
            368-9
            Denons Travels
            2 v.
            5.
          
          
            370
            Washingtons Monuments of Patriotism
             
            2.50
          
          
            371
            Volney's View of the U. S.
             
            3.50
          
          
            372
            Essay on Crimes
             
            1.
          
          
            373
            Lavater
             
            1.
          
          
            374
            Duncan's Logic
             
            1.
          
          
            375
            Stranger in 
                France
              
            
             
            1.
          
          
            376-80
            Millots History
            5 v.
            12.
          
          
            381-2
            Robertsons 
                Scotland
              
            
            2 v.
            6.
          
          
            383
            Stewarts Philosophy
             
            2.50
          
          
            384-5
            Coxes 
                Switzerland
              
            
            2 v.
            6.
          
          
            386-7
            Browns Dictionary of the Bible
            2 v.
            8.
          
          
            388
            Smiths Essays
             
            3.
          
          
            389
            Lord Lyttletons Letters
             
            2.
          
          
            390
            Fergusons Astronomy with an atlas
             
            4.
          
          
            391
            Andersons Agriculture
             
            2.50
          
          
            392
            Teignmouth's Life of Sir William Jones
            
            3.
          
          
            393
            Coxe's View
             
            1.25
          
          
            394-5
            Klopstocks Messiah
            2 v.
            2.50
          
          
            396-9
            Tom Jones
            4 v.
            5.
          
          
            400-1
            Virgil
            2 v.
            2.50
          
          
            402
            Prince De Ligne
             
            1.25
          
          
            403
            Count Fathom
             
            1.50
          
          
            404
            Lady of the Lake
             
            1.50
          
          
            405
            Lay of the last Minstrel
             
            1.50
          
          
            406-7
            Roderick Random
            2 v.
            1.50
          
          
            408-12
            Sully's Memoirs
            5 v.
            9.
          
          
            413
            Dinarbis
             
            .87i/2
            
          
          
            414
            Rassellas
             
            .87i/2
            
          
          
            415-6
            Coelebs
             
            1.50
          
          
            417-9
            Adams Defence
             
            6.
          
          
            420-3
            Josephus by Whiston
            4 v.
            8.
          
          
            424-6
            Burns Works
            3 v.
            5.
          
        
        Ordered that the Librarian furnish Mr. Stout, the Printer with a Copy of the foregoing Catalogue
                    & Valuation, to be printed and bound up together with the Constitution of the 
            Vincennes
           Library already ordered to be printed.
        
        Ordered, Unanimously, that John D. Hay be appointed a Director of the 
            Vincennes
           Library in the place of Parmenas Beckes Deed.
        Adjd.
        [September 6, 1813]
        Special meeting of the President & Directors Monday 6th Sepr. 1813 Present: Parke; Smith,
                    Hay, Kuykendall.
        B. Parke made a Donation of Isabinda to the Library, price one dollar and fifty cents.
        ordered that when maps are bound up with Books and are liable from that circumstance to be injured
                    from the use of the Books, that they be taken out, pasted on muslin or canvas, and rolled on sticks.
        Adjd.
        [November 6, 1813]
        Monthly Meeting of the President & Directors Novr. 6, 1813 Prest.: Parke; Smith, Hay.
        Adjourned.
        [December 28, 1813]
        Special Meeting of the president & directors December 28th 1813 [Present:] President Parke;
                    Smith, Kuykendall Hay.
        John F. Thompson having relinquished his share, in writing, on the 3d September
                    last–ordered that the relinquishment of the share of the said John F. Thompson be and is
                    hereby accepted.
        ordered that the Librarian purchase Guthries Gazetteer.
        The Librarian having produced Guthries Gazetteer at two Dollars–ordered that the Librarian
                    have a credit therefor in his account with the library, for the said Book.
        Adjourned.
        Monday Feb. 7. 1814

        Annual Meeting of the Shareholders Present: Parr, Vigo, [William H.] Dunnica, Peter Jones, Scott,
                    McName, Graeter, Ewing, Baird, Badollet, Kuykendall, Parke, Barnet,  Lindsay, Smith, Buntin, G[eorge] R[ogers] C[lark] Sullivan, Small.
        The shareholders then proceeded to the election of officers of the library; when upon counting the
                    ballots, it appeared that the following persons were duly elected, viz., Benjamin Parke, President,
                    Elias McName, Nath. Ewing Jacob Kuykendall, John Johnson, & John D. Hay, Directors, and
                    Charles Smith Librarian for the ensuing year.
        On motion made and seconded Resolved, That the Shares of N#2 E. Westfall, the late Thomas 
            Randolph
           Deed.–the late Thomas Jones Junr. Deed, and of John Rice Jones and his son
                    Rice Deed, be and they are hereby forfeited–and that the proprietors of the same, their
                    heirs and representatives be and they are hereby discharged from the ballances due on the said
                    Shares.
        On motion made & seconded Resolved that when the meeting adjourns it adjourn to the first
                    monday in march, next, at twelve oClock.
        and then the meeting adjourned.
        March 1st 1814
        Special Meeting of the President & Directors Prest.: Parke; McNamee, Hay, Kuykendall.
        ordered that the Librarian purchase, for the use of the Library, the following books,
                    viz.–[The first part of the list of books is not reproduced here since, except for minor
                    variations in the spelling of names and titles and the omission of six items, it duplicated the
                    purchase list recorded in the minutes of the meeting on June 6, 1813. The items omitted were 
            Newton
          , Sully, Morse, St. Pierre, and the two on Bonaparte's campaigns.] Barton
                    dissertation on the freedom of navigation & maritime commerce; Lampriere's
                    Classical Dictionary; Sewards life of Doctor Darwin; Edwards on Liberty and necessity; Findlays
                    history of the Western Insurrection; Meares Voyages in 1788-9; Radcliffs Tour through Holland
                    &c. 1794; Wittmans Travels; Beattie's Essay on truth; Bacons Essays; Collins
                    Voyages; Moores view of the society & manners in 
            Italy

           &c; Lady Montigu'[s?] Works; Langhorns letters of St. Evermond
                    & Waller; Turn-bulls voyage; Mavors Universal history; Vicar of Wakefield; Franklins works
                    complete; Hazards State papers; Life of  William Pitt Earl of
                    Chattam; Rumfords Essays; Volneys ruins of Empires; Publick characters or Contemporary Biography;
                    Ordinaire's history of volcanoe's; Swintons travels into 
            Norway
           &c. in 1788 to '91; Memoirs of the Bastile; Prouds history of 
            Pennsylvania
          ; Hamptons Polybius; The Political and confidential corespondance of Louis 16th by H.M.
                    Williams; Priestley on Government; Memoirs of Guy Jolli, private Secy, of Cardinal De Retz; 
            Brown
           on Equality; Sparks chymical catechism; Gotlens book of texts [?]; Cards reign of
                    Charlemagne; Dows history of Hindoston; Essay on the facinating influence of Serpents by Doctor
                    Barton; Emporium of Arts and Sciences by Cooper; The Commentaries of Casar by Bladon.
        ordered that the Librarian be authorised to purchase on a credit to the amount of Eighty Dollars.
        ordered that the President draw on the late Librarian for the ballance–in his hands on the
                    first monday last, in favour of the present Librarian.
        ordered that B. Parke be fined fifty cents for the damage done to the first vol. Millers retrospect.
        Adjourned.
        [March 7, 1814]
        At an adjourned meeting of the shareholders at Jones Inn March 7th 1814 Present: Parke; Lindsay,
                    Vigo, Ewing, Buntin, P. Jones, McClure, Parr, Baird, Jones & Dubois.
        there not being a quorum
        Adjourned.
        April 2. 1814
        Monthly Meeting of the President & Directors Present: Parke; Kuykendall, Hay.
        The Librarian reported that no. 81 taken out on the Share of Jacob Kuykendall had been
                    damaged–ordered that Jacob Kuykendall be fined Twelve & half cents for the damage
                    done to the said book.
        The Librarian also reported that no. 338 taken out on the share of William Lindsay had been damaged
                    ordered that William Lindsay be fined twenty five cents for the damage done to the said book.
        
        The Librarian reported that no. 210 taken out on the share of G. R. C. Sullivan had been lost ordered
                    that George R. C. Sullivan be fined Two Dollars, being the price of the said book.
        Adjourned.
        June 22nd 1814
        Special meeting of the President & Directors Present: Parke; Hay, Ewing, Johnson.
        The Librarian produced the following books, at the prices annexed, purchased under the order of the
                    Board of the 1st March last, Viz.,
        
          
            Mavors Universal history
            25 vol
            $33.00
          
          
            Moores 
                Italy
              
            
            2"
            2.50
          
          
            Warrens american War
            3"
            7.50
          
          
            Vicar of Wakefield
             
            1.00
          
          
            Wild Flowers
             
            1.00
          
          
            Chemical Catechism
             
            3.00
          
          
            Pindars Works
            4"
            6.00
          
          
            Beatties Works
            10"
            12.50
          
          
            De Salvos Travels
             
            1.00
          
          
            Life of Darwin
             
            1.75
          
          
            " " Pitt La Perouse Voyage
             
            1.00
          
          
            Farmers Boy
             
            1.00
          
          
            Malthus on Population
            2"
            6.00
          
          
            Hooles Tasso
             
            6.00
          
          
            Tristam Shandy
             
            3.00
          
          
            Wittmans Travels
             
            2.50
          
          
            Wilsons 
                Egypt
              
            
             
            2.50
          
          
            Edwards dissertation
             
            1.50
          
          
            Washingtons Letters
             
            1.00
          
          
            Publick Characters
             
            3.00
          
          
            Debates on the Judiciary
             
            3.00
          
          
            Smiths Philosophy
             
            3.50
          
          
            Classical Dictionary
             
            4.00
          
          
            Bacons Essays
             
            1.00
          
          
            Azuni's Maritime law
             
            5.00
          
          
            Count Rumfords Essays
             
            8.00
          
          
            Roman Antiquities
             
            3.00
          
          
            Cumberlands memoirs
             
            1.00
          
          
            St. Evermond &c
             
            1.00.
          
          
            Bellisarius
             
            1.00
          
          
            Collins voyage
             
            1.00
          
          
            Adams Philosophy
            4v.
            14.00
          
          
            Fergusons Essays
             
            3.00
          
          
          
            Paleys Philosophy
             
            2.50
          
          
            Dickersons Writings
             
            5.00
          
          
            History of Volcanoes
             
            2.50
          
          
            Bartons St. Pierre
             
            9.00
          
          
             
             
            165.25
          
          
             
            Dedt. 15 per ct.
            24.79
          
          
             
             
            140.46
          
          
            Meares[?] voyage
            2 v.
            5.00
          
          
            Radcliffs journey
             
            2.25
          
          
            Farmers Guide
             
            3.00
          
          
            Acerbis Travels
            2 v.
            12.00
          
          
            Brydons tour
            "
            2.00
          
          
            Tookes Russia
            3 v.
            8.50
          
          
            Youngs 
                France
              
            
            2
            5.00
          
          
            Deloomes 
                England
              
            
             
            2.00
          
          
            Telemachus
            2 v.
            6.80
          
          
            Box & cooperage
             
            1.25
          
          
             
             
            $188.26
          
        
        ordered that they be recd, and placed in the Library.
        ordered that Mr. Smith, the Librarian, be allowed fifteen Dollars and sixty cents for the costs of
                    importation.
        ordered that the Librarian be allowed a credit of Eight Dollars for Lees Memoirs this day purchased
                    of him.
        ordered that the Librarian procure a printed catalogue of the above mentioned books.
        adjourned.
        [July 2, 1814]
        Stated meeting of the President & Directors July 2nd 1814 Present: Parke; McName, Kuykendall.
        ordered that the following be the appraised value of the following books, Viz.,
        
          
            430-1
            Malthus on population
            2 v.
            $8.00
          
          
            432-3
            Hooles Tasso
            2 v.
            8.00
          
          
            434-5
            Telemachus
            2 v.
            9.00
          
          
            436
            Publick Characters
             
            4.00
          
          
            437
            Debates on the Judiciary
             
            4.00
          
          
            438
            Wittmans Travels
             
            3.50
          
          
            439
            Wilsons 
                Egypt
              
            
             
            3.50
          
          
            440
            Smiths Philosophy
             
            4.25
          
          
            441
            Classical Dictionary Lamprer
             
            5.50
          
          
            442-3
            Youngs 
                France
              
            
            2 v.
            6.75
          
          
            444-6
            Rumfords Essays
            3 v.
            10.75
          
          
            447-9
            Warrens History
            3 v.
            10.00
          
          
          
            450-2
            Tookes Russia
            3 v.
            12.00
          
          
            453-6
            Adams Philosophy
            4 v.
            18.75
          
          
            457-9
            Bartons St. Pierre
            3 v.
            12.00
          
          
            460
            Paleys Philosophy
             
            3.50
          
          
            461
            Ordinaire on Volcanoes
             
            3.25
          
          
            462
            Chymical Catechism
             
            4.00
          
          
            463
            Radcliffs Journey
             
            3.00
          
          
            464-5
            Dickersons Writings
            2 v.
            6.75
          
          
            466
            Fergusons Essay
             
            4.00
          
          
            467
            Edwards dissertation
             
            2.00
          
          
            468
            Delolmes 
                England
              
            
             
            2.75
          
          
            469
            Farmers Guide
             
            4.00
          
          
            470-1
            Mearse Voyages
            2 v.
            6.75
          
          
            472
            Life of Doctor Darwin
             
            2.50
          
          
            473
            Roman Antiquities Adams
             
            4.00
          
          
            474-5
            Lees Memoirs
            2 v.
            11.00
          
          
            476-7
            Azunis Maritime law
            2 v.
            6.75
          
          
            478-9
            Acerbis Travels
            2 v.
            16.00
          
          
            480-504
            Universal History
            25 v.
            44.00
          
          
            505-8
            Pindars Works
            4 v.
            8.00
          
          
            509-18
            Beatties Works
            10 v.
            16.00
          
          
            519-20
            Tristam Shandy
            2 v.
            4.00
          
          
            521
            St. Evremond & Waller
             
            1.50
          
          
            522-3
            Brydons Tour
            2 v.
            2.75
          
          
            524
            Bacons Essays
             
            1.50
          
          
            525
            Cumberlands Memoirs
             
            1.50
          
          
            526-7
            Moores 
                Italy
              
            
            2 v.
            3.50
          
          
            528
            Vicar of Wakefield
             
            1.50
          
          
            529
            Wild Flowers
             
            1.50
          
          
            530
            De Salvos Travels
             
            1.50
          
          
            531
            Farmers boy
             
            1.50
          
          
            532
            Peyrouse's Voyage
             
            1.50
          
          
            533
            Collins Do.
             
            1.50
          
          
            534
            Belisarius
             
            1.50
          
          
            535
            Annals of Pitt
             
            1.50
          
          
            536
            Washingtons letters on Agriculture
             
            1.50
          
          
             
             
             
            Adjourned.
          
        
        July 6th 1814
        Special meeting of the President & Directors Present: Parke; Hay, Ewing.
        ordered that the Librarian pay Benjamin Parke Seven Dollars for Lewis & Clarks Expedition
                    this day purchased of him.
        No. 537 & 38–Lewis & Clarks Travels ¢ $7.00
        ordered that J. D. Hay purchase at 
            Baltimore
           or 
            Philadelphia
           the continuation of Hume by Smollett & Bissett–and  that if he cannot procure the continuation seperate, then to purchase
                    the whole work–and that the Librarian pay over to him the monies necessary for that
                    purpose.
        Adjourned.
        December 4th 1815 [sic]
        Stated Meeting of the President & Directors Present: Natl. Ewing, J. D. Hay, E. McNamee.
        Ordered that Cha. Smith the Librarian be allowed one dollar & thirty seven & a half
                    cents, for a dressed deer skin & ¢ lbs.[?] glue, used to repair damaged books in
                    the Library.
        Adjourned.
        Monday February 6th 1815
        Anual meeting of the Shareholders Present: John Badolet, Natl. Ewing, Robt. Buntin, J. D. Hay, Peter
                    Jones, John Mcdonald, Cha. Smith, E. Jourdan.
        The Shareholders then proceeded to the election of officers of the Library, when upon county [sic]
                    the ballots it appeared that the following person were duly elected. Viz. Benjamin Parke, President.
                    John D. Hay John Johnson Elias Mcnamee John Badolet & Nathaniel Ewing Directors &
                    Charles Smith Librarian.
        On motion of John D. Hay Resolved, That the share of Waller Taylor be forfeited, and that on his
                    paying two years –Contributions in addition to what he has paid that his account be
                    closed on the books of the Library.
        Adjourned.
        [July 1, 1815]
        Stated Meeting of the Directors July 1st 1815 Present: Parke; Ewing, Badolet, Hay, McNamee. Adjourned
                    to thursday next.
        [July 6, 1815]
        Special Meeting of the Directors July the 6th 1815. Present: Parke; Ewing, Badolet, Johnson &
                    McNamee.
        Ordered that the Librarian purchase for the Library the following books Viz., Rollins History of 
            Rome
          , If that cant be  got Adams History of 
            Rome
          ; Humes History of 
            England
           with continuations; Bissetts Geoge the Third; Watsons Philip Second & third of 
            Spain
          ; Trumbles History of 
            Connecticut
          ; Don Ulloas Travels; Lindsays Travels in the Brazils–and any other work
                    touching the same Country; Abbe Clavigeroz History of 
            Mexico
          ; Hopkinsons Essays & occasional Writings; Caldwells answer to Smith on the
                    complexion of the Human Species; Barton on the Tribes & Nations of N. America; Dumouriers
                    Memoirs; Gallatin on finance; Neibuhs Travels; Burks History of 
            Virginia
          ; Continuation of Ditto by Girardin; Blounts Impeachment; Young on agriculture; Ditto
                    Northern Tour; Youngs Eastern Tour; ditto Southern do. [Tour]; Bartons dissertation on the freedom
                    of Navigation and Maritime Commerce; Findleys History of the Western insurrection; Lady
                    Montagu's Works; Turnbulls Voyage; Franklins Works complete; Hazards State papers; Life of
                    Pitt Earl of Chatham; Volneys Ruins; Swintons Travels into 
            Norway
           &c. in 88.' to 91.'; Memoirs of the Bastile; Prouds History
                    of 
            Pennsylvania
          ; Asiatic researches; Essay on the facinating influence of Serpants by Doctr. Barton;
                    Emporium of Arts & Science's by Cooper; Life of Bounaparte after his withdrawal to
                    Elba; American Biographical Dictionary By W. Allen; Ditto James Harden 4 Vols.; Pikes Expedition;
                    Lectures on Rhetoric by J. Q. Adams; Historical Account of Earthquakes &c. by N. Webster;
                    Clarks Travels in Russia &c; Barron Humbolts new 
            Spain
          ; Hearn's Voyage to the Northern Ocean; Wilsons Ornithology; Sketch of the
                    Geography, political economy and Statistics of 
            France
          ; History of the campaign in Louisiana by Majr. Latour; Universal History by Ramsey;
                    Coloquohoun's Treatise on the police of 
            London
          ; Dubarton on the treatment of Sheep; Bard on ditto; Nile's Weekly Register;
                    Port folio; Thucydides by Smith; Demosthenes by Leland; Ciceros Orations by Guthrie; Xenophen by
                    Smith; Hamptons Polybius; Humes Essays; Ceasars Commentaries by Bladen.
        In the above purchases the Librarian, will commence with the List, and proceed with it as far as his
                    funds will permit– High priced Editions, from hot pressed printing, Engravings or Gilt
                    binding are not, with the exception of Wilsons Ornithology, to be purchasd.
        Nile's register must be bound & such Volumes as may be found in that state may be
                    purchased– The work can be subscribed for, bound as may be most convenient &
                    forwarded.
        
        The Same, as regards the Port folio.
        The Librarian will have about $160 cash, at his disposal –and if he can augment
                    his purchases to $200 by obtaining a credit of six months for the balance, upon terms
                    equally beneficial to his cash purchases he is authorised to do it.
        The Librarian will procure catalogues of the principal book Stores in 
            Philadelphia
          –also a Catalogue of the 
            Philadelphia
           Library.
        Adjourned.
        Saturday Deer. 2nd 1815
        Monthly meeting of the President & Directors Present: Parke; McNaMee, Ewing, Hay.
        The Librarian produced the following Books which he had purchased for the Library, at the prices
                    annexed, Viz.
        
          
            Prouds Pensylvania
            $ 5.00
          
          
            American Biography
            3.00
          
          
            Findleys Insurrection
            2.00
          
          
            Lady Montague
            7.50
          
          
            Turnbulls voyage
            1.00
          
          
            Life Napolean
            .75
          
          
            Emporium of arts & sciences
            12.00
          
          
            History of 
                England
              
            
            37.50
          
          
            Hardy's Biographical Dicy.
            11.00
          
          
            Police of 
                London
              
            
            2.50
          
          
            Bard on Sheep
            .75
          
          
            Care of Sheep
            1.25
          
          
            Taylors Statisticks
            3.00
          
          
            Pikes Expeditions
            3.50
          
          
            Clarks Travels
            4.00
          
          
             
            94.75
          
          
            Dedt. of [?] 15 per cent
            14.20
          
          
             
            80.55
          
        
        ordered–that the said Books be received & that the Librarian be allowed therefor,
                    a credit, in his account current with the Library, of Eighty dollars and fifty five cents.
        ordered–that the Librarian be allowed as aforesaid Ten Dollars for his Expence in
                    importing the said Books.
        Ordered that the following be the appraised value of the said Books, viz.,
        
          
            560-1
            Prouds 
                Pennsylvania
              
            
            $ 6.25
          
          
            559
            American Biography
            3.75
          
          
            566
            Finleys Insurrection
            2.50
          
          
            578-82
            Lady Montague
            9.25
          
          
          
            575
            Turnbulls voyage
            1.25
          
          
            591
            Life Napolean
            1.00
          
          
            555-7
            Emporium of arts & Sciences
            15.00
          
          
            539-53
            History of 
                England
              
            
            47.00
          
          
            569-72
            Hardys Biographical Dictionary
            14.00
          
          
            554
            Police of 
                London
              
            
            3.25
          
          
            583
            Bard on Sheep
            1.00
          
          
            574
            Care of Sheep
            1.50
          
          
            573
            Taylors Statisticks
            3.75
          
          
            558
            Pikes Expeditions
            5.00
          
          
            576-7
            Clarks Travels
            5.00
          
          
            584-90
            Niles Register22
            
             
          
        
        Adjourned till Friday next at 2 P.M.
        Friday December 8. 1815
        Adjourned meeting of the President & Directors Present: Parke; Ewing, Badollet, McNamee, Hay.
        ordered that the Librarian pay G. W. Johnston nine Dollars for Humbolds Travels, &
                    Breckenridges Tour this day purchased of him.
        ordered that Isaac Blackford have leave to Subscribe for a share in the Library, for and on account
                    of Depons Voyage this day purchased of him.
        ordered that the following be the appraised value of the said Books, viz.,
        
          
            No. 565
            Breckenridge's Tour
            $ 3.75
          
          
            567-8
            Humbolds Travels
            7.50
          
          
            562-4
            Depons Voyage
            10.00
          
        
        Adjourned to this day two weeks at 2 oClock P.M.
        Tuesday December 26. 1815
        Adjourned meeting of the President & Directors Present: Parke; Badollet, Hay, McNamee, Ewing.
        ordered that the following Books be purchased for the Library– Viz., Cootes Continuation
                    of Russells Modern Europe; Giffords History of 
            France

          ; Herodotus, by Beloe; Edwards West Indies; Naval History of the U. States; History of
                    Chili; Moshiems Ecclesiastical History; Campbells 
            
              22 No appraised value for Niles' Weekly Register appeared in
                            the minutes until the meeting of February 24, 1823, when these seven volumes were valued at
                            $26. No explanation has been found for the lack of sequence in the book numbers
                            in this list or in the list in the minutes of December 8, 1815.
          
           History of 
            Virginia
          ; Bozmans History of 
            Maryland
          ; Thucyd-ides by Smith; Tacitus by Murphy; Polybius by Hampton; The last Travels of
                    Mungo Parke; Barton on the origin of the Tribes & nations of North America; Barton on the
                    freedom of navigation & Maritime Commerce; Oddy on Commerce; Memoirs of Prince Eugene;
                    Caesars commentaries by Bladon; Soulavie's memoirs of the reign of Louis 16th;
                    Rush's Essays on moral subjects; Erskine's Speeches by Ridgeway; J. Q. Adams
                    Principles of Rhetoric; Plinys letters by Melmoth; Persian Tales; Voyage to Demerary; Goldsmiths
                    manners and customs of Nations; Demosthenes by Leland; Horace by Smart; Orations of Cicero by
                    Guthrie; Gurneys system of short hand improved by T. Sergeant; Birbecks journey through 
            France
          ; History of the Secret Societies for the distruction of the Government of Bonaparte.
        Ordered, unanimously, that the Librarian pay to Benjamin Parke Seven Dollars for the Olive Branch
                    & Porters Journal–this day purchased of him.
        Ordered that the following be the appraised value of the said Books, Viz.,
        
          
            No. 592
            Olive Branch
            $4.50
          
          
            593
            Porters Journal
            4.50
          
        
        Ordered–that John Baddollet and B. Parke be a committee to examine the maps that may be
                    bound up with any of the books of the Library–and report to the next meeting of the
                    Board, their opinion of the most eligible mode of preserving them.
        Ordered that the Librarian forward the List of Books, this day ordered to be purchased, to David 
            Brown
           of 
            Philadelphia
          , with a request that he will purchase and forward, for the use of the Library, to the
                    amount of the Library collections for the current year– The purchase of books, if they
                    can be found, to be made as they are placed on the list.
        Adjourned till Saturday the 6th of January next at 2 oClock p.m.
        Saturday Jany. 6th 1816
        Adjourned Meeting of the President & Directors Present: B. Parke, Presdt.; Badollet, Ewing,
                    McNamee.

        Ordered that the following Books at the prices annexed to them be bought of Charles Hinckley the
                    amount of which  to be taken out by him in a share in the
                    Library & the residue in Contributions &c.
        
          
            No. 594
            Ewings Philosophy
             
            $ 2.75
          
          
            595-6
            Currens Speeches
            2 Vols.
            5.00
          
          
            597
            Allison on Taste
             
            2.50
          
          
            598
            Fosters Essays
             
            1.00
          
          
             
             
            Total amot.
            $11.25
          
        
        Ordered That the maps bound up with the Books of the Library, be taken out of the same, and arranged
                    in Atlasses, as near as may be, according to the size and subject matter of the maps–and
                    that memorandums be entered in each containing reciprocal references to the Atlasses & to
                    the Books from which the maps may be taken, and that Benjamin Parke and John Badollet be a committee
                    to carry the same into effect.
        Adjourned till Saturday next the 13th Inst, at 2 Oclock P.M.
        Monday Feby. 5th 1816
        Anual meeting of the Share holders Present: B. Park, presdt.; N. Ewing, J. B. McCall, R. Buntin, A.
                    Badolet, E. Mcnamee, S. T. Scott, N. Purcell, Geo. R. C. Sullivan, Jno. Badolet, Wm. Polke, J.
                    Kuykendall, G. W. Johnston, C. Smith, Jno. McClure Jr., Jno. Johnson.
        On Motion, Resolved, that the Order of the President & directors, at their last meeting for
                    takeing out maps bound up with the Books of the Library and arrangeing them in Atlasses, be
                    & the same is hereby recinded.
        The Share holders then proceeded to the Election of officers of the Library for the ensuing Year,
                    when it appeared that Benjamin Parke was elected president John Badollet Elias McNamee John Johnson
                    Saml. T. Scott and Isaac Blackford Directors and Charles Smith Librarian.
        Adjourned.
        December 6th 1816
        Stated meeting of the President & Directors Present: Parke; Scott, McNamee.
        Ordered that John Small be charged with a fine of One dollar & fifty Cents for damage done by
                    him to book No. 435.
        Adjourned.
        
        January 4th 1817
        Stated meeting of the President & Directors Present: Parke; Scott, Badollet, McNamee.
        Ordered that the following books be added to the list of the 26th Deer. 1815 for purchase as therein
                    directed Viz. Savery's Letters on 
            Egypt
           & 
            Greece
          ; Maurices Antiquities; Memoirs of the Bastile; Pastall's Quintillian;
                    Correspondence of Louis 16th by H. M. Williams; Memoirs of Guy Jolli private Secy, to Cardinal De
                    Retz; Ellicots Journal; Account of Louisiana from Documents in Depts. State & Treasury;
                    Apendix to ditto; Draytons View of S. Carolina; Humes Essays; Dodridge's rise &
                    progress of religion in the Soul; Life of Jonathan Edwards; Don Ulloa; American Artists Manual;
                    Burke's Works; Swifts Works by J. Nicholls; Addisons Works by Tickell; Salmagundy; Nelsons
                    life by Southey; Volneys Ruins; Poppular tales by Miss Edgeworth; Universal history by Ramsay;
                    Campaign in Louisiana by Latour; Wilsons Ornithology; Essay on the fascinating influences of
                    Serpents by Barton; Hazards State Papers; Claytons Life of Alexander the Great; 
            Newton
           on the Prophesies.
        Ordered that Robert Baird have credit for twelve dollars, for the Life of Philip 2nd & 3rd of 
            Spain
          , this day purchased of him.
        Ordered that the account of Elihu Stout of forty six dollars & fifty Cents be settled by the
                    Librarian in the following manner Viz.–by permiting the said Stout to subscribe for two
                    shares in the Library and the balance to be accounted for in the payment of such contributions
                    & fines as may from time to time be due the Library from him.
        Adjourned.
        [February 3, 1817]
        Special meeting of the President & Directors February 3d 1817 Present: Parke; 
            Blackford
          , Scott.
        ordered that David M. Hale have a credit with the Library for nine Dollars, for Mrs. Hays'
                    Female Biography, this day purchased of him.
        Ordered that Nathaniel 
            Huntington
           have a credit with the Library for Nine Dollars and fifty cents for Biglands History of 
            England
           at seven Dollars and fifty cents and Duncans Cicero at Two Dollars, this day purchased
                    of him.
        Adjourned.
      
      
      
        Indiana University Museum Exhibits Indiana's Vanishing Industries
        The Indiana University Museum has prepared an exhibit of "Indiana's Vanishing
                    Industries" which will be open to the public from December 7, 1965, until October 1, 1966.
                    The museum, located in Maxwell Hall on the university campus, will be open daily from 8:30 to 12:00
                    and 1:00 to 4:30, except Sundays mornings and holidays. This exhibit has been especially planned as
                    part of the university's contribution to the Indiana Sesquicentennial program.
        "Indiana's Vanishing Industries" illustrates various pioneer crafts or
                    trades, some household processes, and sundry farm tools and equipment. Among the displays are
                    exhibits concerning blacksmithing, carpentering, harness making, butchering, churning, plowing, and
                    cider making.
        Persons interested in scheduling group tours for studdents or adults are invited to write Wesley R.
                    Hurt, Museum Director, Maxwell Hall, Indiana University, 
            Bloomington
          . Individuals who possess or have knowledge regarding the location of museum material
                    which illustrates Indiana's history and heritage are invited to correspond with Director
                    Hurt concerning its possible deposit in the Indiana University Museum.
      
      
      
        Book Reviews
        
          The Arts in Early American History, Essay by Walter Muir Whitehill. Bibliography
                    by Wendell D. Garrett and Jane N. Garrett. (
            Chapel Hill
          : The University of 
            North Carolina
           Press, for the Institute of Early American History and Culture at 
            Williamsburg
          , Va., 1965. Pp. xv, 170. Index. $4.50.)
        This volume is a report of a conference held by the Institute of Early American History and Culture
                    at 
            Williamsburg
           on March 7, 1964, to assess the state of knowledge of the arts in this country.
                    Participating were a representative group of historians and museum directors concerned with varied
                    aspects of the arts. In the Preface Whitehill comments that he at first had some doubt that early
                    American arts "because of their provincial and derivative nature could compete with their
                    European prototypes for study by any great number of art historians," but that E. P.
                    Richardson had pointed out "what can be learned from a colonial or frontier scene when the
                    arts are viewed not as an end in themselves but as an element in human society." This
                    statement provides a clue to the treatment of the subject at the conference. The arts in early
                    America, the conference made clear, are an index to the culture and history of that period.
        Whitehill's introductory essay in this volume sums up the collective wisdom of the
                    participating historians. Entitled "An Unexploited Historical Resource," it
                    emphasizes the necessity of understanding the way people lived, the things with which they
                    surrounded themselves, their efforts at aesthetic adornment of their houses, and the countless ways
                    in which they tried to improve their cultural level.
        Until fairly recently, art historians concerned themselves primarily with the "great
                    art" of Europe with perhaps some attention to Chinese ceramics, but all that has now
                    changed. The art historian has found that the silversmiths of New 
            England
           in the seventeenth century, or the cabinetmakers of 
            Philadelphia
           in the eighteenth century, or the folk arts of the Pennsylvania Germans are subjects
                    worthy of his scholarship and learning. For this development, much credit must be given to the
                    museums devoted to the decorative arts in America, particularly to the Henry Francis du Pont
                    Winterthur Museum, over which Richardson presides. Already this museum has virtually revolutionized
                    the attitude of many young scholars toward American social history. They have discovered that not
                    all comprehension of the history of the past comes from books and that artifacts have a story to
                    tell.

        This volume provides a carefully annotated bibliography of works about the arts in early America.
                    Divided by subjects, it not only shows what has been done but suggests areas where further
                    exploration is needed. "Its silences automatically indicate needs and opportunities for
                    study," Whitehill points out. "Many of the books that it lists were printed in
                    small editions and are now hard to find. Some could well be revised and improved; others need wholly
                    new substitutes" (p. 28). In  short, this report is
                    filled with suggestions for useful research that professors of American studies might well
                    contemplate when they are casting about for subjects to recommend to hopeful candidates for the
                    doctorate.

        Unlike too many bibliographies of this type, that of Jane and Wendell Garrett has valuable notes
                    appended to most of the items listed. The student is not left wondering whether the book is really
                    pertinent. These able bibliographers provide sufficient information to tell wherein it is useful.
                    For instance, a volume on Early American Decorated Tinware has this note:
                    "An illustrated history of tinware and tinsmiths carried back to the beginnings of oriental
                    lacquer and forward to a tin-wedding celebration of 1873." Scholars can be grateful to the
                    Institute of Early American History and Culture for inspiring a useful conference and for
                    stimulating the production of a handbook valuable to all who work in the field of American social
                    history.
        Louis B. Wright, The Folger Library
        
      
      
        
          Loyalists and Redcoats: A Study in British Revolutionary Policy. By Paul H.
                    Smith. (
            Chapel Hill
          : The University of 
            North Carolina
           Press, for the Institute of Early American History and Culture, 1964. Pp. xii, 199.
                    Notes, appendix, bibliography, index. $5.00.)
        This study traces British military policy toward the Loyalists during the War for Independence. It
                    was a policy reflecting political considerations at home, the Loyalist potential in America, and the
                    actual course of the war itself. At first British confidence in a short war with a successful
                    outcome was based in part on the imagined strength of the Loyalists. A varying strategy, never well
                    understood, regarding use of the Loyalists sometimes ignored their proffered help and at other times
                    courted it. Sometimes they were organized to fight, at other times merely for their own protection.
                    And in the end they were used as an excuse to continue what many members of Parliament considered an
                    otherwise hopeless war.
        As the war progressed, misunderstandings between provincial troops and regulars, common during the
                    colonial wars, remained an unsolved problem. Provincials were regarded as a stopgap in the first
                    year of the war. For the short war anticipated, untrained Loyalist regiments offered an expensive
                    and unsatisfactory solution. Britain prepared to rely on the regulars.
        Planning for 1777 was based on a reappraisal of rebel strength and an enlarged role for the
                    Loyalists, since Britain could not possibly provide Howe with the reinforcements he deemed
                    necessary. Smith credits undue optimism about Loyalist support for the failure to coordinate
                    Burgoyne's campaign with that of General Howe. The difficulties of both generals would seem
                    to stem, according to Smith's evidence, from the actual lack of the large numbers of
                    Loyalists historians usually have assumed were in the middle states.

        The author raises but does not answer the question of whether they were fewer in number or merely
                    lacking in zeal and capability. Just  how big a reservoir of
                    manpower Britain could call upon in America remains a moot point. Smith does note the lack of
                    consideration, and the careless and inconsistent treatment the Loyalists suffered both in and out of
                    the service. He concludes that though Britain had many "friends" in America, many
                    of them refused an active role in the war. After 1778 the Provincial Line never rose above an
                    estimated 10,000, a figure Britain had hoped for earlier, but which later fell below her
                    expectations.
        After 1778, Britain's strategy was concentrated on the South, an expected center of
                    Loyalism. With the entry of 
            France
           into the war, the British were forced to consider their home defenses first. Able to
                    spare little more for America, they had to relinquish the offensive on land in favor of defensive
                    and naval war. Seizing and holding the Southern states with expected Loyalist support would at least
                    maintain appearances in America for the sake of the shaky North regime. And, indeed, protection of
                    American Loyalists became the major argument of the British administration for continuing the war.
                    When the chimera of strong Loyalist forces to be rallied in America failed, the war could no longer
                    be sustained.
        Although the British army was at first militarily successful in the South, administrative errors
                    aroused new revolutionary zeal, Loyalist support in sufficient amount was not forthcoming, and the
                    army was inadequate to its task of protecting Loyalists or cowing the patriots. By 1782 even the
                    British government had seen the futility of a war waged to protect American friends. Events had
                    demonstrated that adequate Loyalist assistance could not be aroused because Britain had failed to
                    provide sufficient leadership, encouragement, and support from first to last.
        Smith has succeeded in providing an important new interpretation of the Loyalists in the American
                    Revolution, emphasizing both the significant role they might have played in the limited war Britain
                    was forced to wage in America, and their political importance to the government in prolonging the
                    North ministry and the war.
        G. M. Waller, 
            
              Butler
             University
        
      
      
        
          The Papers of James 
              Madison
            , Volume 4, 1 January 1782–31 July
                        1782. Edited by William T. Hutchinson and William M. E. Rachal. (
            Chicago
          : The University of 
            Chicago
           Press, 1965. Pp. xxviii, 486. Illustrations, notes, index. $12.50.)
        Reviewers' response to the publication of the first three volumes of Papers is a mixture of praise and criticism. The editorial work is charged with having gone as
                    far or high as such a thing could go. The footnotes, it is claimed, adequately identify every proper
                    name, and clarify, for the general reader, unusual words and controversial questions.
                    Bibliographical completeness is recognized. The exacting standards of superlative scholarship and
                    the incredible industry of the editors are generally admitted. Yet the editors are charged, too,
                    with the treatment of trivia, and pedantic and even absurd annotation. Reviewers have  accused them of having padded the first three volumes with
                    "piddling documents laboriously glossed," and with "substituting an
                    overabundance of industry for a sense of proportion."
        The fourth volume includes two hundred eleven papers of which only thirty-five have, in whole or in
                    part, been printed in earlier editions of 
            Madison
          's writings. Ninety-three of the documents, the editors assure us, are
                    altogether or partly in 
            Madison
          's hand, and an additional seventeen record what he said or wrote. Nineteen
                    dispatches prepared by his colleagues in the Virginia delegation to Congress were signed or
                    otherwise approved by 
            Madison
          . Fifty-two letters addressed to 
            Madison
           personally, and twenty-four addressed to the Virginia delegation in Congress, are also
                    included. The remaining items consist of motions, committee reports, and editorial comments on
                    misdated or missing documents.
        The editorial pattern set in the first three volumes continues in the fourth volume: prodigious
                    industry persists; meticulous annotation is abundant; editorial notes are at times laborious but
                    usually fruitful; the index, typically thorough, conveniently points the reader to documents and
                    footnotes in this and the preceding volumes.
        Absurdity, trivia, and disproportion, like beauty, are judged by the beholder–or reviewer.
                    This reviewer, though admittedly lost at times among the documents and their annotations, accepts
                    the intent of the editors and commends them for their success. True, no issue confronting the
                    Continental Congress or the Commonwealth of Virginia was resolved during the seven months
                    encompassed by this volume. Nor is the origin or culmination of any major issue revealed by the
                    documents. But the many references to the continuous problems of western land claims, the shortage
                    of money, illicit trade with the enemy, war debts and congressional requisitions, interstate
                    rivalries, British peace overtures, battles and rumors of battles in the West Indies, will, when the
                    volumes are completed, bring these issues into focus insofar as they relate to 
            Madison
          . Personal observations and interesting anecdotes, sprinkled throughout the documents,
                    lend local color and delightful detail.

        This volume is no compact narrative. No new historical interpretations challenge the reader. No
                    reader will be engrossed in its contents into the wee hours of the morning. The layman probably
                    won't use it, nor will the professional engage his colleagues in arguments about its truth
                    or its philosophy. And for good reason, for these are not the objectives of the Papers.
        
        Donald B. Scheick, Indiana State University
        
      
      
        
          A House Divided: A Study of Statehood Polities and the Copperhead Movement in West 
              Virginia
            . By Richard Orr Curry. (
            Pittsburgh
          : University of 
            Pittsburgh
           Press, 1964. Pp. 197. Maps, appendixes, notes, bibliography, index. $5.00.)
        Curry's purpose in writing A House Divided was threefold: "to
                    determine whether earlier works on the 'disruption of 
            Virginia

          ' properly assess the quantum relationship between Unionists and Secessionists
                    in  West 
            Virginia
          ; to challenge the validity of other interpretations of the statehood movement; and to
                    examine aspects of Civil War policies in West Virginia that have not been investigated by other
                    historians" (pp. 2-3). Although a large order for so small a volume–there are
                    only 140 pages of text–the author has in part succeeded. The book's central
                    theme challenges the traditional contention that West Virginians overwhelmingly opposed secession
                    and favored separate statehood. While recognizing the strength of Unionism in northwestern 
            Virginia
          , Curry distinguishes between this section and the total area of the new state. He
                    proves, with statistics compiled from many sources, that "half the counties included in the
                    'new State' area were opposed to statehood; and that 40 per cent of the people in
                    West Virginia were Secessionists" (p. 13). Earlier historians interpreted the origins of
                    the "war born state" in terms of sectional grievances dating back to the American
                    Eevolution. Curry believes that the statehood movement can be understood only in terms of the
                    changing pattern of sectionalism between 1830 and 1861. He also credits McClellan's
                    mountain campaign and the support of federal troops for making a separate state movement possible.
        Whether or not it belongs to that genre of historical literature, A House Divided
                    suffers from many of the faults found in published Ph.D. dissertations. The volume is confusingly
                    organized and in spots reveals the pedestrian quality of research studies in education. Curry
                    overemphasizes the uniqueness and importance of his conclusions and is somewhat intolerant of other
                    historians' views and errors. The shifting pattern of sectional conflict is hardly a new
                    concept even if it has never been applied to the history of West 
            Virginia
          . The contention that democratic gains in the 1850 Virginia constitution were eastern
                    not western victories is at least debatable. Curry nowhere defines a "Copperhead"
                    but uses the term variously to describe opponents of emancipation, Conservative Unionists, and
                    Democrats. The author castigates other writers for their treatment of John Carlile and his defection
                    from the statehood movement; yet, Curry's own explanation is much too facile.

        Despite the book's faults, students of Civil War politics and West Virginia history must
                    take A House Divided into account. The author's story of the complexities
                    of state and local politics is undoubtedly more accurate than the simpler pictures heretofore
                    presented. Although somewhat aside from the central theme, Chapter 6, "Ohio to the
                    Rescue," is the best in the book and gives deserved praise to 
            Ohio
          's Governor William Dennison. A few readers may question the use of county
                    histories and the partisan press as bases for statistical analyses, but the appendixes, containing
                    compilations of West Virginia election returns, are invaluable. Curry's conclusion that the
                    statehood movement cannot be judged "solely in the vacuum of constitutionality"
                    but must be considered as a war measure is an important contribution to West Virginia history.
        Lorna Lutes Sylvester, Indiana Univesity
        
      
      
      
        
          Railroads and Regulation, 1877-1916. By Gabriel Kolko. (
            Princeton
          , N.J.: 
            Princeton
           University Press, 1965. Pp. vii, 273. Notes, bibliography, index. $5.00.)
        This book was awarded the Transportation History prize of the Mississippi Valley Historical
                    Association, which should come as no surprise to any of its readers. The author studied the
                    relationship of railroads to federal regulation to ascertain whether legislative controls were
                    foisted upon railroad men or whether the controls sought and embraced. Professor Kolko, after
                    painstaking research and careful craftsmanship, concludes, as does the reviewer, that railroad
                    executives were generally aware of the necessity of governmental action in order to minimize some of
                    the difficulties growing out of competition and extensive construction. Indeed, regulations seldom
                    come to an industry against its will. Executives frequently protest the controls and may feel some
                    impairment of their freedom to act. Most of them, however, when confronted with the alternative of
                    no control, confess that, although they should be modified, the regulations are good.
        Professor Kolko had access to most of the literature of the period under study and made extensive use
                    of private papers and governmental reports which are ordinarily not consulted. He concludes that
                    railroad tycoons found state regulation more of a nuisance than a solution. Their pools and rate
                    agreements proved to be relatively unstable. Kolko agrees with Lee Benson that the influence of the
                    Grangers on the creation of the ICC was less than Ida M. Tarbell thought. Nor does the author think
                    that railroad officials deliberately initiated the federal controls. But Kolko seems to think that
                    the independent oil producers of 
            Pennsylvania
          , working through Representative James Hopkins of 
            Pittsburgh
          , provided some of the initiative in behalf of their colleagues. Benson, on the other
                    hand, thinks that 
            New York
           merchants were the most important single group working for the ICC bill. By the end of
                    the 1870's and in the early 1880's, various railroad officials came out in favor
                    of control, though there were diehards. Charles Francis Adams, Jr., apparently was willing to have a
                    bill providing for federal control but wished it to be harmless. With the notable exception of
                    Charles E. Perkins of the 
            Burlington
          , support grew stronger and when the law went into effect on February 4, 1887, the
                    welcome sign was out.
        A combination of vagueness in the bill and pro-railroad appointments to the ICC by President 
            Cleveland

           made early regulation rather weak. Only commission member Aldace F. Walker had any
                    great knowledge of railroad administration. The fumbling of the early years is depicted in detail in
                    Kolko's work, as is the ambivalence of President Theodore Roosevelt. Perhaps so much
                    strengthening of the federal role came during Roosevelt's administration because
                    dissatisfaction with state control was so great. Kolko's analysis of the reglatory
                    situation in 1908 leans heavily upon a thesis which Marver H. Bernstein espoused in 1955. Kolko
                    reproduces a delightful and incisive quote from Regulating Business by Independent
                        Commission (p. 87): "Its (the ICC) functions are less those of a policeman and
                    more like that of a manager of an industry. The approach and point of view of the regulatory process
                    began to partake of those of business management."
        
        Kolko neatly summarizes some of his views near the end of the book when he asserts: "If
                    Roosevelt played the role of the self-anointed and fundamentally conservative defender of the best
                    interests of the railroads, and Taft the role of his politically inept but well-intentioned echo,
                    Wilson was to assume the part of the nationalistic advocate of the railroads who allowed the
                    railroads to define his role for him" (p. 208). By the end of the period the railroad
                    served the government and the government seemed to serve the railroads. This mutual relationship was
                    disadvantageous to the railroads in the ensuing period, and the book closes with the railroads about
                    to move into an era of heightened competition with rival modes of transportation. To this day the
                    industry struggles to keep the share of the market which remains after those private and unregulated
                    carriers have skimmed much of the choice movement. If Professor Kolko were to do a series of books
                    on influences over the allocation of resources for transport, he would now write of the power of the
                    public purse, private fleets, the strategic role of the Bureau of the Budget, and the activities of
                    the Department of Commerce. The Interstate Commerce Commission would probably not claim much of his
                    attention.
        L. Leslie Waters, Indiana University
      
      
        
          Klondike Saga: The Chronicle of a Minnesota Gold Mining Company. By Carl L.
                    Lokke. (
            Minneapolis
          : The University of Minnesota Press, for the Norwegian-American Historical Association,
                    1965. Pp. xiii, 211. Notes, illustrations, maps, appendixes, index. $5.50.)

        The late Carl L. Lokke, former chief of the foreign affairs branch of the National Archives, has
                    presented in Klondike Saga a narrative of the Monitor Gold Mining and Trading
                    Company of sixteen Minnesotans who went to Western 
            Canada
           in the 1890's. His story is based upon diaries, letters, and newspaper
                    articles the Minnesotans wrote during that trip. Most of the party were young Scandinavian
                    immigrants to the 
            United States
          . The author's grandfather, Lars Gunderson, was the company's leader.
                    Through their narrative one may catch glimpses of the gold rush at its peak. A kaleidoscope of
                    prospectors' experiences, it describes forms of transportation, climbing the Chilkoot Pass,
                    murderous snowslides, boat building, shooting the Whitehorse rapids, and prospecting in the Yukon
                    and Stewart tributaries. Much of the book treats life on the creeks and wilderness survival. When
                    others left the Stewart River country because they failed to strike it rich, the Monitors continued
                    digging for a new Bonanza. But they never found it.
        In his prologue the author remarks that those familiar with the story of Norwegian-Americans will
                    find few surprises in this account of their activities in the Yukon country. They displayed there
                    the same characteristics as the pioneers of the Middle West–physical stamina,
                    self-discipline, willingness to endure hardships, and independence of spirit. Like their Dawson
                    contemporaries, they visited saloons, dance-halls, and gambling places. Yet their chronicles do not
                    dwell on examples of human frailty. Rather they recounted spectacular scenery and problems common to
                    those who toiled for gold.
        
        Lokke contends that the venture proved a modern parallel to earlier Viking exploration, that in
                    spirit they were close to youthful adventurers of all places and times. Further, he believes that
                    the experience quickened the Americanization of the European-born. For "the free and easy
                    life of the mining frontier soon broke down separatist, old-country patterns and substituted new
                    ones native to the land" (p.191). The best writing in the volume is the description of the
                    Chilkoot ordeal and danger and violent death from the deadly avalanches in the mountains and
                    boat-smashing boulders in the tricky rivers of the North.
        Although the Monitors returned to the 
            United States
           without gold, they felt themselves wealthier men, reminiscent of the Arctic tale that
                    in his search the sourdough seldom finds gold but often discovers himself.
        Robert Allen Frederick, 
            
              Alaska
             Methodist University
        
      
      
        
          Defender of the Faith, William Jennings Bryan: The Last Decade, 1915-1925. By
                    Lawrence W. Levine. (
            New York
          : 
            Oxford
           University Press, 1965. Pp. ix, 386. Frontispiece, notes, bibliographical note, index.
                    $7.50.)

        After the death of William Jennings Bryan, H. L. Mencken commented on the career of the Great
                    Commoner: "He came into life a hero, a Galahad, in bright and shining armor. He was passing
                    out a poor mountebank." In so writing, Mencken gave expression to what was to become a
                    standard evaluation. Yet, as Lawrence W. Levine proves conclusively, that evaluation can no longer
                    be considered satisfactory. Defender of the Faith, according to the author,
                    originated in an effort to discover why a man who had spent most of his life as a crusader for
                    social and economic reform ended his days as the champion of an outdated rural evangelism. A careful
                    reading of the record, however, led Professor Levine to the view that such a transformation never
                    really took place. As he sees it, the central problem of Bryan's last years is not one of
                    understanding why Bryan changed, but why he proved incapable of change. In addressing himself to
                    this more complex problem, he makes a valuable contribution to our understanding of the period
                    during and after World War I.
        The major premise of this book, then, is that Bryan's last ten years were "a finely
                    structured microcosm of his entire career" (p. 358). To demonstrate the validity of this
                    contention Levine probes deeply into the congeries of beliefs–the faith–which
                    lay behind Bryan's efforts for world peace, his continued pleading for reform measures such
                    as woman suffrage, his advocacy of prohibition, and his identification with fundamentalism. Among
                    the central concepts of the Commoner's faith were his Jeffersonian-Jacksonian trust in the
                    people and his distrust of business privilege, concepts which are evident in the early Bryan who
                    would not crucify mankind upon a cross of gold.

        Later in life, after World War I had come, Bryan "attempted to convince the government to
                    call a halt to the process which he claimed  had turned every
                    preceding war into an instrument which coined the sacrifices of the many into profits for the
                    few" (p. 98). He spoke out against the liquor interests, whose passion for dollars was so
                    great "that they would, if they could, make drunkards of the entire army" (p.
                    119). And both before the war and after, he rejected Darwinism in part "because it depicted
                    man as having reached his present state 'by the operation of the law of hate–the
                    merciless law by which the strong crowd out and kill off the weak,' while he preferred to
                    believe that 'love rather than hatred is the law of development'" (p.
                    261).
        Thus it was that in essentials Bryan's beliefs during his later years remained consistent
                    with ideas he expressed early in life. How, then, does Levine explain that consistency? Beyond this,
                    how does he account for the prevalent idea that Bryan began his career as a progressive and ended it
                    as a reactionary? Always representative of a rural ethos, Bryan's mentality was a
                    populist-progressive mentality: "It did not seek, it knew. Its weapons were not pragmatic
                    but moral. Its outlook was not relative but absolute" (p.364). His was, in other words, a
                    mind which could not readily adapt itself to changes which raised questions about his most cherished
                    beliefs. The times did change. Bryan neither comprehended nor accepted the dynamics of urbanization,
                    industrialization, and scientific advance. "And if his final years ended in
                    tragedy," concludes Levine, "it was not the tragedy of a good man gone bad, but
                    the tragedy of a good faith too blindly held and too uncritically applied" (p. 365).
        This is an important work. It is important because it treats Bryan as a plausible figure in a period
                    that has often been misunderstood because a generation of scholars could not bring itself to look
                    upon Bryan as a plausible figure. It is important because Levine skillfully analyzes the
                    assumptions, thought processes, and actions of a leader who embodied a significant part of the
                    American experience. It is important because we have here a treasury of provocative suggestions
                    about what happened to agrarian progressivism during and after World War I.
        Paul W. Glad, University of 
              Maryland
            
          
        
      
      
        
          J. 
              Franklin
             Jameson: A Tribute. Edited by Ruth Anna Fisher and William Lloyd Fox. (
            Washington
          , D.C.: The Catholic University of America Press, 1965. Pp. ix, 137. Clothbound,
                    $3.25; paper-bound, $1.95.)
        J. 
            Franklin

           Jameson is the honored victim of a small volume of tributes by former colleagues and
                    associates, all of whom should have known better. Ostensibly designed to rescue the master from
                    obscurity, the essays, taken together and separately, merely reinforce the notion that there was
                    something seriously lacking in Jameson's career. By what can only be described as blind
                    perversity, the editors deal with Jameson's shortcomings as evidence of his greatness. His
                    inability to write extensively is turned into an act of self-sacrifice. His difficult personality is
                    made to seem the qualities of a gentleman of the old school. The relationship between personality
                    and professional posture  and performance is nowhere touched
                    upon. In brief, the contributors to this volume give us nothing but the most superficial account of
                    Jameson and they do so in such a manner as to make him seem more than ever a secondary figure among
                    American historians.
        One gathers only by reading between the lines that there is a story, and a rather pertinent and
                    poignant one, that remains to be told. Allan Nevins, one of a number of distinguished contributors,
                    comes closest when he suggests that Jameson courted anonymity. But, caught up in conventional
                    eulogy, Nevins too must make this trait seem an adornment rather than a defect. Boyd C. Shafer,
                    dealing with "Jameson as Editor," offers the entirely irrelevant observation that
                    "editors are creative" after having cited Jameson's own confessions of
                    inadequacy. What Shafer and the other contributors refuse to concede is precisely Jameson's
                    dissatisfactions with his career. Thus one of the editors, Ruth Anna Fisher, insists that
                    "he could have written great books" but chose instead to serve the needs of other
                    historians. And again, Donald H. Mugridge, whose bibliography of Jameson's writings closes
                    the volume, argues that Jameson "sacrificed his own potentialities as a writer of history
                    in the interest of the organization of historical scholarship in the 
            United States
          " (p. 100). All this of course is nonsense and does an injustice to a vastly
                    complex and vital figure.

        The poverty of conception that characterizes this book is especially evidenced by the failure to
                    treat Jameson's original writings, particularly his one work that is a major contribution
                    to American historiography, The American Revolution Considered as a Social
                    Movement. One can only surmise that the editors were so committed to the vindication of their
                    hero as editor-archivist-administrator that they dared not take the risk of confronting his limited
                    output as a practicing historian. But by failing to do so they merely admit their own inability to
                    face up to the man as he actually was, and what he actually was is of far greater interest to the
                    historical fraternity than the papier-mâché "monument" the
                    editors endeavor to raise in his name.
        How does it happen that those who came to praise Jameson succeed only in burying him?
                    Jameson's career was devoted to the cause of professionalism. The good works and services
                    he contributed to the profession are the principal subject matter of the essays that make up this
                    book and are cited by the contributors as positive evidence of Jameson's worthiness.
                    Nowhere in these essays is there evidence of the slightest discernment of the crucial connection
                    between Jameson's professional role and his self-confessed feelings of inadequacy as a
                    teacher and writer. To make that connection would have required some painful probing of precisely
                    those professional practices and pretensions that permitted a man of Jameson's temperament
                    to retreat into an impersonal realm of administrative and scholarly endeavor. Are not those same
                    professional standards Jameson nurtured so lovingly the outward signs of an inward flight from
                    written history as a personal statement? But, rather than confront such sensitive issues, the
                    editors and contributors settled for a ritual praise that merely obscures the real Jameson and the
                    profession he served so faithfully.
        
        Bernard Friedman, Indian University
      
      
      
        
          The Myth of the 'New History': The Techniques and Tactics of the
                        New Mythologists of American History. By David L. Hoggan. (Nutley, N.J.: The Craig Press,
                    1965. Pp. vi, 250. Notes, bibliographical supplement, index. $4.50.)
        The author's plan is to consider how American historians have treated eight crises: the
                    various wars the 
            United States
           has participated in. His purpose is to demonstrate how errant the mainstream of
                    American historical writing has become. The "New History" in his title refers to
                    the current status of our historiography, rather than to an analysis of the work of James Harvey
                    Robinson, although Chapter 10 does deal with what Hoggan takes to be the invidious influence of that
                    practitioner.
        Hoggan has investigated widely, yet his preconceptions have kept him from understanding or
                    assimilating much of what he has read. Moreover, he has either purposely or inadvertently ignored
                    numerous sources that would temper or negate many of his assertions. One of the fundamental defects
                    of this book, in fact, is its assertive nature. Hoggan is given to postulates for which no
                    believable evidence exists. His unsupported statements and unqualified assertions prevent the book
                    from being considered as serious scholarship; rather it is a tasteless and frightfully misconceived
                    polemic.
        As crippling as Hoggan's methodology is, an even greater flaw is his obsession with the
                    rectitude of Hitler's diplomatic and military aims. The author does not confine his views
                    on Nazi 
            Germany
           to the chapter on World War II, but rather permeates the book with them. These
                    intrusive opinions illustrate another weakness of the volume, its disorganization. In many chapters
                    the author treats so many disparate factors that he loses the focus. And he deals with his material
                    so haphazardly that it is impossible to sense any sequential development.
        To answer all of Hoggan's allegations would require a volume equal in length to his. But
                    some sampling will illustrate his technique and demonstrate its worthlessness for the serious
                    student. He restates his thesis that World War II resulted from the machinations of Lord 
            Halifax
          : "As demonstrated in my book, When Peaceful Revision Failed
                        …
          
            Germany
          , whatever her faults in her own domestic system and foreign policy, was the victim of
                    an English Tory conspiracy in September, 1939" (p. 4). Perhaps Hoggan demonstrated this to
                    his own satisfaction, but the storm of criticism that greeted the 
            German
           edition, Der Erzwungene Krieg, hardly demonstrates that he did so to
                    the satisfaction of the community of scholars. Again Hoggan declares: "The documentary
                    record has long since revealed that in 1939 it was Hitler's utmost desire to enjoy peaceful
                    and friendly relations, and if possible even alliances, with both Great Britain and 
            Poland
          " (p. 5); and, "… 
            German
           and Japanese victory in World War II would not have included an invasion of the 
            United States
           but rather merely a successful defense against American efforts to invade 
            Germany
           and 
            Japan
          " (p. 64). Such statements as these need no further comment to establish the
                    author as an apologist for fascism.
        
        A different kind of misunderstanding or ignorance besets Hoggan when he speaks
                    historiographically–perhaps, though, this is just another facet of his ungrounded
                    assertions or of his unwillingness to consider contrary evidence. He asserts that Thomas J.
                    Wertenbaker's reputation as a student of eighteenth-century America "has been
                    maintained without challenge since the publication of his first major study more than fifty years
                    ago" (p. 49). How about the impressive rehabilitation of Wertenbaker's "
            Puritan

           Oligarchy" coming from the works of Morison, Miller, and Murdock? And the
                    major revision on the role of Nathaniel Bacon offered by Wilcomb Washburn, The Governor
                        and the Rebel"! That Hoggan knows something of Kenneth Stampp is clear from his
                    reference to And the War Came, but it is just as clear that he is ignorant of The Peculiar Institution when he says, "Slavery was virtually bankrupt by
                    1861 … the high price of Negroes, the low percentage of profit on their
                    employment–all these suggested that the slavery system in the 
            United States
           was on its way out by 1861" (p. 99). Whether Stampp was right or wrong, Hoggan
                    cannot legitimately ignore him in a discussion of the historical writing on the economics of
                    slavery.
        Pervading the book is Hoggan's religious preoccupation. The reviewer neither comments on the
                    quality of the author's religious experience, nor questions his religious motives. But
                    Hoggan's frequent use of religious allusions gives the book a special coloration; to wit:
                    "The specifically American system consists of a Christian constitutional system of
                    limitations in politics and a free market along scriptural lines in economics" (p. 1).
        A final disquieting factor is the extreme sloppiness of the editing. Apparently neither the author
                    nor the editor knows that the leading student of 
            Madison

           is Irving Brant–not Bryant, as it is printed in both text and index. And
                    neither knows that Brant's publisher is Bobbs-Merrill, not the Indiana University Press.
                    Neither examined the discrepancy between Eugene C. Baker in text and index and the Eugene C. Barker
                    in the citations. Walter Millis is credited with The National Spirit rather than
                    his justly famous The Martial Spirit. The magnitude of the errors in this book
                    indicates that Hoggan would have been well advised not to venture into the area of 
            United States
           historiography.
        Walter Rundell, Jr., National Historical Publications Commission
        
      
      
        
          The Middle Western Farm Novel in the Twentieth Century. By Roy W. Meyer. (
            Lincoln
          : University of Nebraska Press, 1965, Pp. vii, 265. Notes, appendix, bibliography,
                    index. $5.00.)
        Meyer has made a careful and extensive study of a particular literary genre which he has designated
                    "the middle western farm novel." Technically, he has confined his survey to the
                    twentieth century, but he has of necessity gone back into the nineteenth century to look at the
                    beginnings. The results are interesting and instructive.
        
        He starts by laying down the criteria by which his selections have been made, illustrates the
                    criteria by concrete examples, and then defends them. In succeeding chapters, he evaluates the farm
                    novelist as historian, arbiter of values, social critic, and psychologist. The work is, of course,
                    primarily in the field of literary criticism, but it nevertheless has much of value to the
                    historian, the economist, the sociologist, and even the statesman. This reviewer is not well
                    qualified to judge the book as literary criticism, but at least it makes interesting reading and
                    from this point of view it is heartily recommended to anyone concerned with American fiction.
        The novels dealing with the pioneering period in the western half of the Mississippi Valley are best
                    from a historical view point. They contribute a great deal to the social and economic history of the
                    region in the last half of the nineteenth century. Perhaps they make an even greater contribution
                    for various immigrant groups–
            German

          , Scandinavian, Czech, etc.–than for the native American settlers. The novels
                    of Ole Edvart Rolvaag, especially his Giants in the Earth, are outstanding in this
                    respect.
        Possibly the most significant finding that Meyer has made is the fact that the middle western farm
                    novel as a type rose to great prominence on the American literary scene in the early decades of the
                    twentieth century and has declined almost to the point of disappearance in the past two decades.
                    This would appear to indicate that the 
            United States
           is undergoing basic economic and social changes as a nation. Agriculture is undoubtedly
                    a declining industry from the standpoint of both the relative and the absolute number of people
                    engaged in it. It is not, however, a declining industry at all from the standpoint of its volume of
                    output. American agriculture is now producing more and better food, fiber, and industrial raw
                    materials than it ever has before. But middle western farm life now differs much less from that of
                    the towns and cities than it previously did. Especially, the pioneering period, which provided the
                    best raw material for the group of novels under consideration, was a "one shot
                    affair." If there should be another flowering of middle western farm novels, the subject
                    matter would of necessity be quite different from that of the group which Meyer has studied.
        The Appendix, 43 pages in length, in which the author presents an annotated bibliography of middle
                    western farm fiction from 1891 to 1962, is one of the most valuable parts of the hook. There is a
                    second bibliography of a more general nature which is also quite good. The author is to be commended
                    for his energy and his scholarship.
        Troy J. Cauley, Indiana Univesity
      
      
      
        Review Notices
        
          Southern Indiana. Photographed by Hartley Alley with text by Jean Alley. (
            Bloomington
          : Indiana University Press, 1965. Pp. 128. Index. $5.00.) Southern Indiana is perhaps best described as a pictorial interpretation of past and
                    present life in the oldest settled area of the state. Through pictures and running commentary it
                    captures the charm, beauty, and diversity of roughly the southern third of Indiana. To produce this
                    book the Alleys covered thousands of miles and took hundreds of pictures while traveling the
                    highways and byways of the region. The result is informative and indicates the pleasure and
                    relaxation available to persons who leisurely and thoughtfully visit southern Indiana. In general,
                    the authors show discernment and an effort to be factual in their commentary. But residents of 
            Fort Wayne
           may understandably question whether 
            Vincennes

           was Indiana's oldest French village, and residents of the Whitewater Valley
                    may justifiably inquire why so little is offered concerning their section of the state. Southern Indiana savors in an interesting and informative manner the flavor, atmosphere,
                    and traditions of the region in which American civilization was first established in Indiana.
        
          The Great Lakes and the Great Rivers: Jonathan Carver's Dream of Empire.
                    By John Parker. (Lansing: Historical Society of 
            Michigan
          , 1965. Pp. 18. Illustration, map, notes. Paperbound.) In the Burton Lecture for 1964,
                    delivered at the ninetieth annual meeting of the Historical Society of 
            Michigan
          , John Parker summarized his findings concerning Jonathan Carver, early British explorer
                    of the Middle West. This printed version of Parker's lecture offers concise information
                    about Carver, discusses his aims and motivation, and reviews his explorations in the Great Lakes
                    area in the 1760's. According to Parker, Carver was particularly interested in finding a
                    river flowing westward from the Great Lakes which would serve as a passageway to the Pacific. In
                    preparing his lecture, Parker made extensive use of Carver's manuscript journals of his
                    travels in 1766 and 1767. These journals have since been published by the Minnesota Hitsorical
                    Society. Both the Burton Lecture and the recently published journals should help significantly in
                    calling attention to Carver's pioneer efforts and achievements.
        
          Colonials and Patriots: Historic Places Commemorating Our Forebears, 1700-1783. By
                    Frank B. Sarles, Jr., and Charles E. Shedd. Volume VI, National Survey of Historic
                        Sites and Buildings. Edited by John Porter Bloom and Robert M. Utley. (
            Washington

          : U.S. Government Printing Office, 1964. Pp. xvii, 286. Maps, illustrations, notes,
                    suggested reading, index. $2.75.) The "outdoor archives" of national
                    historic sites and structures commemorating persons and events in American history, 1700-1783, are
                    described in this volume.  Attention is given to historic sites
                    and structures located in national parks, those under nonfederal ownership, those eligible for the
                    Registry of National Historic Landmarks, historic districts eligible for such registry, and those
                    "considered" or "noted." Inasmuch as such sites and structures
                    are listed by states, the volume serves as a convenient guidebook for persons interested in visiting
                    places significant to American history for the period covered. Although most of the places listed
                    naturally are located in the original thirteen states, a significant number of them are in the Ohio
                    Valley and its tributary valleys. Fort Sackville at 
            Vincennes
           appears to be the only Indiana site listed.
        
          A Guide Book to Historic 
              Vincennes
            : A Guide to Her Historic Treasures; A Guide to 
              Vincennes
             of Today. Compiled by James D. McQuaid and Marie Lucier McQuaid. (
            Vincennes
          , Ind.: James D. McQuaid, 1965. Pp. 112. Illustrations, maps. $1.75.) This
                    modest volume offers both illustrations and descriptions of sites and buildings associated with
                    important persons and events in and near 
            Vincennes
          . Though it includes historical material on one of the oldest towns in the Midwest, the
                    guidebook also provides useful information for present-day visitors and residents.
        
          Midwestern Progressive Politics: A Historical Study of Its Origins and Development,
                        1870-1958. By Russel B. Nye. Reprint. (
            New York
          : Harper & Row, [1965]. Pp. 398. Bibliography, index. Paperbound,
                    $1.95.) Nye's Middle West includes the Old Northwest plus 
            Minnesota, Iowa,
                            Kansas, Nebraska
          , and the Dakotas. He is principally concerned with politics in
                    these states in an era in which they either completed the transition from agrarian and rural
                    supremacy to industrial and urban dominance or at least made a substantial advance thereto. Nye
                    believes that middle western politics has had unique aspects and accents different from those of the
                    politics of any other important area or region of the 
            United States
          . Though explicit about the economic and political diversity within the Middle West, Nye
                    concludes that since 1870 the area has in general been quite successful in making solid political
                    change based on common sense, moderation, consensus, stability, and gradualness. But, according to
                    Nye, the Middle West has changed and matured with the result that middle western progressivism has,
                    at least for the time being, ceased to exist (p. 362). Nye's volume, which first appeared
                    in 1959, is based on wide reading, especially of books and periodicals.
        
          Black Hawk: An Autobiography. Edited by Donald 
            Jackson
          . Reprint. (
            Urbana
          : University of Illinois Press, 1964. Pp. 177. Notes, maps, appendixes, bibliography,
                    index. Paperbound, $1.75.) 
            Jackson
          's edition of Black Hawk's autobiography first appeared in 1955. This
                    paperback issue of the 1955 volume makes the original autobiography as well as 
            Jackson
          's introductory account of Black Hawk available to  an increased number of persons. Especially interesting is that part of
                    the introductory sketch which wrestles with the question of the authenticity of the 1833 text-the
                    one on which 
            Jackson
          's edition is based. Although the question is not resolved in an entirely
                    satisfactory manner, 
            Jackson
           at least offers convincing evidence that the second or 1882 version of the
                    autobiography is less authentic than that of 1833.
        
          The City and the Bank, 18651965: The Story of 100 Years in the Life of 
              Indianapolis
             and the Merchants National Bank & Trust Company of 
              Indianapolis
            . (
            Indianapolis
          : Merchants National Bank & Trust Company, 1965. Pp. xi, 114. Illustrations.)
                    This volume, privately printed, offers considerable information about the evolution of banking and
                    general growth of industry and business in 
            Indianapolis
          . A centennial history of the Merchants Bank & Trust Company, it is also in part
                    a sketch of the Frenzel family. Although largely intended to be a tribute to 
            Indianapolis
           and the Merchants Bank & Trust Company rather than a complete and scholarly
                    study of either, it includes historical information of significance.
        
          The Story of 
              Illinois
            . By Theodore Calvin Pease. Third edition. Revised by Marguerite Jenison Pease. (
            Chicago
          : The University of 
            Chicago

           Press, 1965. Pp. xvi, 331. Illustrations, maps, notes, appendix, bibliography, index.
                    $5.95.) The initial edition of The Story of 
              Illinois
            

           appeared in 1925; the second edition was published in 1949 as a joint effort
                    of Professor Pease and his wife, Marquerite Jenison Pease; the current edition is a revision and
                    updating of the text by Mrs. Pease. As would be expected by those who have known the late Professor
                    Pease and Mrs. Pease, this modest volume affords much information about Illinois history from the
                    French era to the 1960's. Its context is broad, its bibliography is extensive, and much
                    interpretation is frankly and thoughtfully offered. The Story of 
              Illinois
            
           is a readable and useful account, especially for students and general readers.
        
          Man and Land in the 
              United States
            . By Marion Clawson. (
            Lincoln
          : University of Nebraska Press, 1964. Pp. ix, 178. Illustrations, maps, tables, charts,
                    index. $4.50.) This extremely readable and interesting volume offers an interpretation of
                    how Americans have viewed and used land from colonial times to the present. Highlights concerning
                    the origin, distribution, and persistence of the federal public domain are noted, and the continued
                    importance of the federal government in establishing land policy and determining land use is
                    explained. Consideration is given to ways in which industrialization and urbanization have and are
                    affecting attitudes concerning and uses of land. Clawson's modest volume emphasizes that
                    questions concerning land and its uses have increased rather than decreased as a result of the
                    transition from a rural and agrarian to an urban and industrial society.
        
        
          A Chronology of Indiana in the Civil War, 18611865. (Indianapolis:
                    Indiana Civil War Centennial Commission, 1965. Pp. 150. Paperbound.) This annotated chronology
                    almost exclusively emphasizes military events and developments. Unfortunately the sources used in
                    compiling the chronology are not indicated and the viewpoints expressed have not always been
                    carefully weighed and evaluated. But, thoughtfully used, this booklet can serve as a guide to
                    persons interested in establishing the sequence of particular events or developments concerning
                    Indiana's participation in the Civil War.
        
          The View from Headquarters: Civil War Letters of Harvey Reid. Edited by Frank L.
                    Byrne. (Madison: The State Historical Society of Wisconsin, 1965. Pp. xiv, 257. Illustrations,
                    notes, index. $6.00) The letters reproduced in this volume were written by Harvey Reid
                    during the years 18621865 while he served as a Badger state volunteer in the Union army.
                    Reid's opportunity to view much of the war from regimental headquarter made it possible for him to
                    report from a broader perspective than that availalble to most volunteers.
        
          Folksingers and Folksongs in America: A Handbook of Biography, Bibliography, and
                        Discography. By Ray M. Lawless. Revised edition. (New York: Duell, Sloan and Pearce, 1965.
                    Pp. xviii, 750. Illustrations, notes, indexes. $10.00.) Variously listed as a "New
                    Revised Edition with Special Supplement" (title page), a "New Enlarged
                    Edition" (dust jacket), and "Second edition" (back of title page), this
                    book isaccording to the author's Preface to the "Special
                    Supplement" a "second printing" in which "corrections
                    and suggestions ... sent in by various scholars" have been duly noted (p. 668). The
                    first 662 pages seem to be a reprint of the original edition of 1960 complete with index; this is
                    followed by the "Special Supplement" (pp. [664]-750), which has the same general
                    format as the original book. Although vast information is included about folksingers and folksongs,
                    broadly interpreted, both its biographical sketches and bibliographical annotations bear evidence of
                    inadequate evaluation and criticism on the part of the author.
      
    
    
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
    
  
