
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 31, Issue 1, pages 1-82. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:31+issue:1+year:1935&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            The Nomination of the Democratic Candidate in 1924
            SEXSON E. HUMPHREYS
            
            One of the strangest among the phenomena of American party history is the Democratic National
                    Convention of 1924, in which all the elements that tend to divide the Democratic party combined to
                    produce a bitterness such as had never been seen in a political convention before and to send the
                    number of ballots required to name a candidate to the record figure of 103.
            Historians are familiar with the problems that caused the impasse and have
                    frequently analyzed their significance. Students of politics find in the convention a demonstration
                    of how diverse are the interests represented in the Democratic party. There is one question
                    regarding the convention, however, that has largely gone unanswered, and frequently unasked. That is
                    the question of how it happened that John W. Davis became the nominee of the party. This is an
                    important question, for it represents the first time since 1860 that the party had gone south of the
                    Mason-Dixon line for its candidate, unless Woodrow Wilson, born in 
                        Virginia
                    , but nominated from 
                        New Jersey
                    , be considered an exception. The nomination indicates also the triumph of the
                    metropolitan element in the party that was to lead it to defeat in 1928. John W. Davis was the
                    second choice, not of the forces which had kept William G. McAdoo in the lead during most of the
                    convention, but of the forces of Al Smith—the urban, Catholic, and financial interests in
                    the party. Mr. Davis was not a Catholic,1 but if the convention is to be
                    explained in 
                  
                     1 The writer is under the necessity of using the term Catholic in connection with this study of the convention of 1924. All readers
                            should understand that it is not used as a term of disrespect. The student of history cannot
                            shun the fact that prejudice existing in different parts of the country has resulted in a
                            defensive political alliance which includes a large portion of the adherents of the Catholic
                            Church.
               
                     terms solely of the religious conflict, his nomination was a
                    victory for the Catholic forces, for they threw their support to him. Certainly he represented the
                    urban and financial interests of the party. His southern residence was an advantage in gaining the
                    nomination, but had contributed little to his political philosophy.
            The failure to analyze the conditions that produced his nomination resulted from the suddenness of
                    the outcome. The convention, after balloting uselessly for one hundred ballots, finally and suddenly
                    threw its whole strength behind the banner of John W. Davis. In the rush to dig out of their
                    "morgues" biographies of John W. Davis and to interview him upon the campaign, the
                    journalists forgot to investigate or report the causes of the stampede. Historians, because of an
                    overshadowing interest in the deadlock itself, have contented themselves with the explanation that
                    the delegates were tired, but, as a matter of fact, the background of the nomination is one of the
                    most thrilling chapters of the convention story.
            There are, as every student knows, two opposing factions in the Democratic party.2 These divisions lie generally to the north and to the south of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and the Ohio River. Democrats in the Old South are members of the
                    ruling class, whose one fear and general campaign issue is the Negro. They look back upon the
                    Reconstruction era and forward to the possibilities of assimilation with the same feelings.
                    Aggressively Protestant, essentially rural, inherently aristocratic, they have never made
                    proscriptive organizations of the type of the Ku Klux Klan unwelcome among them. In the spring of
                    1924, the Klan and William Jennings Bryan combined to repudiate the outstanding political figure of
                    the South, Oscar W. Underwood, because he was opposed to the ideals of the Klan and to the legal
                    theories underlying the Eighteenth Amendment. They decided to support William G. McAdoo, son-in-law
                    of the canonized Woodrow Wilson, whom they sought to make the political heir of the war-time
                    President.
            North and east of the Ohio River lies a Democracy that 
                  
                     2 The most lucid explanation of the positions of these two wings of
                            the party is contained in Sherwin Lawrence Cook's The Torchlight
                                Parade (
                                New York
                            , 1929), 257–8. Equally aware of the situation, but more restrained
                            in their statements regarding it, are the historians of the Democratic party. Henry Minor,
                                The Story of the Democratic Party (
                                New York
                            , 1928), 461; Frank R. Kent, The Democratic Party. A History (
                                New York
                            , 1928), 485.
               
                     is to a large extent metropolitan. One, two, and three
                    generations are its elements removed from Europe, and their one political voice cries for the
                    enlargement of the opportunities of the common man. The victims of Ku Klux Klan attacks from the
                    standpoint both of their national origins and their Roman Catholic religion—for a large
                    part of them were Catholic in 1924—they were determined to defeat the candidate of the
                    Klan and the Anti-Saloon League. They found support in the fact that the business interests of the
                    East were suspicious of McAdoo, among other reasons, because he had been a party to the government
                    control of the railways during the Wilson administration. They rallied for the fight around the
                    standards of Alfred E. Smith (whom they called "Al", the tremendously popular
                    governor of the state within whose borders the convention was to be held), able administrator and
                    brilliant personality.
            The battle lines were tightly drawn, and the newspapermen at the rim of the battlefield early
                    predicted the breaking of the record for the duration of the convention,3 when
                    William R. Pattangall of 
                        Maine
                     sallied forth from the Eastern ranks with a gage of battle. He offered a resolution
                    condemning by name the Ku Klux Klan.4 The battle was bitterly fought by the most
                    brilliant speakers on both sides, including William Jennings Bryan himself. His closing address
                    turned the tide and the amendment was lost by less than half a vote. But the religious issue was
                    clearly before the convention, and nothing now could keep it out of the minds of the delegates.
                    There could be no compromise. Race and religion were chief among the issues and both sides stood
                    firm on their ground long after the fifty-nine ballots it had required to nominate Franklin Pierce
                    in 1852 had been exceeded.
            Each ballot began with the cry of 
                        Alabama
                    —"Twenty-four votes for Oscar W. Underwood." As the ballots
                    were taken, the totals were very nearly the same on each test—more than five hundred
                    votes for McAdoo, more than three hundred for Smith, but more than seven hundred necessary to
                    nominate. Neither side would yield. Compromise after compromise was proposed. John W. Davis, Samuel
                    M. Ralston, Edwin T. Meredith, Carter Glass, Woodbridge N. Ferris— 
                  
                     3
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Evening Post, June 22, 1924.
                  
                     4 The Official Proceedings of the National Democratic
                                Convention of 1924 (
                                Washington
                            , 1924) has been used throughout this study, but the writer has thought it
                            unnecessary to make particular citations.
               
                     were offered by states interested in seeing the contest stopped
                    before the party should be crushed in the gore of its own battle, but neither army would brook
                    reason within its ranks.5
            
            Then up rose William Jennings Bryan, thrice the nominee of his party for the Presidency, loved by
                    many, and respected by most of the citizens of the nation he had served and sought to serve. He
                    began to speak, but his speech of a few days before had marked the end of his influence in the party
                    he had once ruled. No longer was his voice able to soothe the fires. He spoke in the same sonorous
                    voice that had excoriated August Belmont a dozen years before, but when he spat upon Wall Street
                    now, all 
                        New York
                     spat back at him. The Bronx-filled galleries heckled the old leader unmercifully. A 
                        New Jersey
                     delegate interrupted to tell the Great Commoner that he had voted for him the three
                    times but was now genuinely sorry. A voice from the gallery hoped this would be Bryan's
                    last convention appearance.6.
            Governor Smith, who had possibly never expected to win the nomination, offered to withdraw from the
                    race if McAdoo would do the same, but the ex-Secretary of the Treasury, whose acceptance of the
                    offer would have allowed him practically to name the convention's choice, refused to
                    consider such a proposal or to release his delegates. On and on the battle raged.
            The leaders of the contesting forces both had tremendous personal followings. The McAdoo celebrations
                    of each Sunday took on the aspect of revival meetings.7 The Smith loyalty was
                    displayed in the galleries of the convention hall, where the citizens of 
                        New York
                     chose to honor their governor by heckling those who sought to defeat him. For ten days,
                    it was a convention beyond the control of the bosses that usually dominated the choice of the
                    presidential candidate. Delegates voted, in larger proportion than usual, for the men they sincerely
                    respected or whose principles they upheld. Hundreds of them faithfully obeyed the instructions of
                    the voters 
                  
                     5 William Allen White, an eminent political commentator and an eminent
                            politician in his own right, was reporting the convention for a newspaper syndicate. He
                            reprinted his convention correspondence in a volume, Politics: The
                                Citizen's Business (
                                New York
                            , 1924). On page 95, he declares: "The real second-choice candidates
                            were Davis for the East and Ralston for the West and South … but blind leaders
                            held back the decisive struggle."
                  
                     6 Cook, op. cit., 265–6.
                  
                     7
                            
                                White
                            , op. cit., 107; Christian Science Monitor,
                            July 1, 1924.
               
                     in the primaries and gave their support, ballot after ballot, to
                    Mr. McAdoo.
            Wiliest of all the bosses was Thomas Taggart, who had been an important factor in Democratic
                    conventions before. He now planned the greatest coup of his life—the
                    nomination of an Indiana leader in a year when the Teapot Dome seemed to augur Democratic triumph at
                    the polls. Samuel M. Ralston, Governor of Indiana and then Senator, was an ideal compromise
                    candidate. He was a Protestant, perhaps a little tinged by the Klan, yet beloved by the Catholic
                    Democracy of the state he had long served. He possessed many of the same Victorian virtues that made
                    President Coolidge popular. He said little, made very few opponents, and no enemies. Two years
                    before he had succeeded in defeating a famous man, who had earlier served Indiana in the Senate for
                    twelve years, Albert J. Beveridge. Ralston had endeared himself to the conservative members of his
                    party in the East by this victory. At the same time, his record had been liberal enough that Bryan
                    could look upon him with friendly interest.8
            
            If ever a dark horse was carefully groomed for a race, it was Samuel Ralston. He alone, of all the
                    prominent candidates, was not in 
                        New York
                     during the convention. Rather he was attending carefully to his regular duties in 
                        Washington
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                    , appearing a little irked even that the Indiana delegation should so consistently cast
                    its thirty votes for him.9 He wrote Mr. Taggart, who had placed his name before
                    the convention and constituted himself his campaign manager, telling his friend that he was not
                    seeking the presidency.10 Taggart, however, was too shrewd to say anything about
                    the communication. Ballot after ballot the Indiana delegation cast its every vote for Senator
                    Ralston, while scattered delegates from neighboring states and even some from far away swelled the
                    total by two or three votes on each succeeding ballot.
            While the air burned most strongly with religious warfare, votes from all over the hall began to come
                    to the man from Indiana. The 
                        New York
                     papers freely predicted his nomination. When he passed John W. Davis of West 
                        Virginia
                    , 
                  
                     8
                            
                                Richmond
                             (Ind.) Palladium, July 8, 1924.
                  
                     9 Ralston had said in the course of a speech before the State
                            Democratic convention of Indiana on June 6: "There is something about the greatness
                            of the exalted position of President that admonishes me against wanting to undertake the
                            execution of ita grave and solemn duties." 
                                New York
                            
                            Times, June 6, 1924.
                  
                     10 Cook, op. cit., 268; 
                                White
                            , op. cit., 98.
               
                     who had been consistently in third place, and was known to be the
                    second choice of the Smith followers, Ralston's success seemed to observers in the press
                    gallery to be a matter of a few ballots only.
            But Tom Taggart was more experienced in convention manipulation than were the newspapermen. As he
                    looked around him, he was worried because he sensed that the boom had come too early. For a while he
                    gave the tide toward Ralston his support, but after a few more ballots he became confirmed in his
                    belief that there was still so much strength in the two battling armies that his candidate would be
                    crushed between them and definitely eliminated when the first evidence that support for him was
                    fading should become apparent.
            While Ralston was still gaining, Mr. Taggart drew from his pocket the letter that the Senator had
                    written him two days before. He strode to the platform and read it, asking Ralston's
                    following to allow his withdrawal in the interest of harmony. He then split the thirty Indiana votes
                    between McAdoo and Smith and sat back to wait. He frowned upon the votes that were cast here and
                    there for his candidate.
            On the eighty-seventh ballot, Taggart felt that the time had come for a move. Both factions would now
                    welcome a flank movement that offered relief from exhaustion. Indiana's return to Ralston
                    on that ballot was the signal for 
                        Missouri
                     to follow, and before the ballot was completed, the Hoosier Senator had gathered
                    ninety-three votes from all over the 
                        Union
                    . Steadily he climbed almost to the two hundred mark by the time adjournment came.
                    Reports became prevalent over the convention that on the next morning McAdoo would withdraw in favor
                    of Ralston, assuring him four hundred and fifty additional votes.11
            
            With Taggart, making final arrangements in a room far up in the Waldorf-Astoria, were: Pat 
                        Harrison
                    , whose 
                        Mississippi
                     province had voted for McAdoo long and earnestly; N. W. Brickly, whose 
                        Missouri
                     delegates had long waited to fall in line for Ralston and had often strained at the
                    leash; Angus McLean, national committeeman from 
                        North Carolina
                    ; Robert Jackson, who had brought forward the candidacy of Governor F. H. Brown of 
                        New Hampshire
                     for the presidency, but who was now willing to bargain for an ambassadorship; 
                  
                     11
                            
                                Richmond
                             (Ind.) Palladium, July 9, 1924.
               
                     Frank Farris of 
                        Missouri
                    , and others of indeterminate complexion. The group was jubilant, and plans for the
                    division of the spoils were already under way.
            At this important moment came a phone call from 
                        Indianapolis
                     for Mr. Taggart. The champion told the Senator of the day's events in 
                        New York
                     City and spoke in glowing terms of the advance of the Ralston vote to nearly two
                    hundred. The Senator failed to become equally excited. "Yes," he said, "I
                    know all about it; listened to it on the radio; audibility perfect and clear."
            He would be nominated beyond doubt in a very few more ballots, Taggart informed him. All the
                    delegates were now so near exhaustion that they would ask few questions once the boom was started.
                    Everyone would be fighting to get on the band-wagon while there was still patronage left.
            The group surrounding Mr. Taggart sensed a difficulty and interrupted their conversation to catch the
                    reply. They puffed carefully at Mr. Taggart's cigars, but only that gentleman heard the
                    calm voice of the man in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , who had never campaigned for the presidency, but who now seemed to have the nomination
                    within his reach.
            "My family does not wish me to take it," the Senator said deliberately,
                    "and my own views coincide with theirs." His doctors, too, had told him it would
                    be unwise for him to accept.12
            
            That Mr. Taggart was amazed was not surprising, despite the warnings he had been given. He protested
                    volubly. But his friend was sincere and remained stubborn. Nothing could budge him from the belief
                    that a man of sixty-eight years was too old for the presidency.13 Finally Mr.
                    Taggart gave up and broke the news to the "diplomats" gathered in the room, most
                    of whom had already inferred the answer.
            Confronted by this unexpected turn, Senator Harrison promptly announced that John W. Davis would be
                    the nominee 
                  
                     12 The 
                                New York
                            
                            World had a genius for uncovering "inside" stories of
                            politics. The situation here presented was reported fully by Charles Michelson in the World on July 9, 1924.
                  
                     13
                            
                                Richmond
                             (Ind.) Palladium, July 9, 1924.
               
                     of the convention.14 At the same time,
                    Governor Smith and his campaign manager, Franklin D. Roosevelt, were at the Biltmore. Along with
                    them were George Brennan, Democratic boss of Ilinois whose adherence to Smith had lost him the
                    long-time friendship of Taggart, Wilbur Marsh, and a number of others. All were talking John W.
                        Davis.15
            
            On the morrow, July 9, the convention, which had first assembled almost three weeks before, heard Mr.
                    Taggart, now heart-broken, for the second time withdraw the Indiana Senator's name. On the
                    one hundred third ballot, the convention zestfully nominated John W. Davis of West 
                        Virginia
                    , brilliant Wall Street attorney. The inevitable motion to make the nomination unanimous
                    was proposed by Thomas Taggart.
            There is a type of mind that is forever seeking the occult and refusing to accept explanations that
                    are either simple or complimentary to the actors in any political drama. This type of mind is
                    especially prone to deal with politics. Hence there is a legend around 
                        Indianapolis
                     and elsewhere that makes Ralston refuse the nomination because it would have entailed
                    an obligation to provide for friends of Governor Smith. It is nothing less than absurd.
            Senator Ralston was mentioned throughout the convention as an ideal compromise candidate. If there
                    had been any enmity at all between him and the Smith faction, there could have been no such mention.
                    It was the enmity of Bryan towards John W. Davis, of course, that kept him from being the nominee
                    much earlier. Senator Ralston, moreover, as we have seen, had at least twice before, when no bargain
                    with Smith was in view, asked that his name be not presented. Though the statement before the 
                        Indianapolis
                     convention and the first letter to Taggart looked like pure politics at the time they
                    were given, in the light of the final refusal, they must be considered sincere. Finally, since
                    Senator Ralston died within 
                  
                     14 In a personal letter to the writer, dated Februasy 6, 1934, Senator
                            Pat Harrison corrobrates the whole of Michelson's story (A copy of the account had
                            been sent to him) and adds: "I haven't the slightest doubt that if Senator
                            Ralston had not phoned Senator Taggart and told him it was impossible for him to accept, and
                            that the doctors had told him that he could not, that Ralston would have been nominated
                            within the next twenty-four hours. At the time of the telephonic communication there were
                            groups of delegates in Taggart's room from many states—delegates who had
                            been voting for other candidates, but who were voluntarily coming in and assuring the
                            Ralston managers that they were ready at the appropriate time to swing over to Ralston. If
                            Ralston had only given his word and permitted Taggart and the Ralston managers to proceed,
                            he would have been nominated and I believe elected President of the 
                                United States
                            ."
                  
                     15 Michelson, in 
                                New York
                            
                            World, July 9, 1924.
               
                     the next year, it should not be necessary to look further than
                    the reason which he gave—namely, his health—to discover adequate motivation
                    for his refusal.
         
         
         
            The Disappearance of New 
                        London
                    
            
            MILDRED HOLSAPPLE
            
            In an old book now filed in the 
                        Jefferson
                     County recorder's office at 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana, may be found the plat for a town called New 
                        London
                     "as lain out within the county of 
                        Jefferson
                    , upon the N. E. Quarter of section No. 6 of Town [ship] No. 2 Range No. 10 and on a
                    fraction joining in the 
                        Jeffersonville
                     district."1 On the fifth day of August, 1815, this plat
                    was exhibited in the recorder's office and recorded on the eighth day of the same month.
                    The town was thus laid out before Indiana became a state. The site described is in what is now
                    Saluda Township in the southern part of the County.
            The name of Samuel Alexander, as Justice of Peace, is signed in the plat book to the following
                    statement: 
                        State of Indiana
                        
                     
                                Jefferson
                             County—Be it remembered that on the fourth day of August, 1815,
                            personally appeared the within named Benjamin W. Hurst and made oath that this was the
                            original plat of the town of New 
                                London
                             or a true copy of the same and complied with all the requirements of the Law
                            done before me, a justice of peace, in and for the county aforesaid the day aforesaid.
                    
            
            Hurst was the surveyor and the plat was recorded by Colonel John Paul, the first recorder of 
                        Jefferson
                     County, commissioned December 18, 1810. Colonel Paul came to this district in 1809.
                    After buying the site of 
                        Madison
                     at a public lands sale held in 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , he, with the help of Lewis Davis and Jonathan Lyons, laid out the town of 
                        Madison
                    . Colonel Paul was one of the soldiers who helped Colonel George Rogers Clark capture
                    Kaskaskia and 
                        Vincennes
                    . In 
                        Madison
                     he gained the distinction of being the first proprietor by the establishment of a saw
                    mill in Canaan Valley at the edge of the town. He also assisted in the
                    organization of the Bank of 
                        Madison
                     which was chartered by the Territorial Legislature in 1814.2
            
            New 
                        London
                     was located on the Ohio River, approximately three and a half
                    miles below the site of 
                        Hanover
                     College. It was built on the river bank and five streets were laid 
                  
                     1 Plat Book, No. 1, 
                                Jefferson
                             County, Indiana.
                  
                     2 Emery O. Muncie, "A History of 
                                Jefferson
                             County" (unpublished Master's Thesis, Indiana University,
                            Bloomingrton, 1933), 43, 57–58; 
                                
                                    Madison
                                
                             (pamphlet published by the Chamber of Commerce of 
                                Madison
                            , Indiana, n.d.)
               
                     out parallel to the river with three long and two shorter ones
                    crossing the five at right angles. Thus the town plan was in the shape of the letter L reversed.
                    First Street ran next to the river and was paralleled by Second, Third, Fourth, and Market Streets.
                    The cross streets, with the exception of Main Street, were not named in the plat.
            The town plan provided for a public square with each side 230 feet long. Market and Main Streets were
                    to be eighty feet wide, while each of the others was to be sixty. A strip ten feet in width was
                    allowed for each alley while the lots were to be forty-five by one hundred and fifty feet. The plat
                    included one hundred eighty four lots.3 All that now remains of New 
                        London
                     is the top of a cistern. The very land on which the village was located has been
                    carried away by the 
                        Ohio
                     on its course down stream.
            As local historians and villagers have it, the town once rivaled 
                        Madison
                     in population and prosperity. A road leading south from 
                        Hanover
                     towards 
                        Charlestown
                     is yet referred to at times as the New 
                        London
                     road, though few people know why it is so called. The persons seemingly best acquainted
                    with the story are Mr. and Mrs. Dave Baylor, who live in Saluda Township at the head of Hearts
                    Falls. The Falls, which overlook the valley where New 
                        London
                     once stood, have an Indian lore of their own. Mr. Baylor, now an old man and in ill
                    health as a result of a stroke of paralysis, was able to furnish several items concerning the town
                    from actual memory of the place and from stories told to him by others. Mrs. Baylor's
                    information came from an older sister.
            The first and most numerous inhabitants of New 
                        London
                     were members of the Hale family. Superintendent Emery O. Muncie, of the City Schools of 
                        Madison
                     in his "History of 
                        Jefferson
                     County," mentions an Abel B. Hale of 
                        Hanover
                    , whose license to sell groceries and distilled spirits was rescinded. The name is not
                    prominent in the vicinity now.
            In an atlas of the state of Indiana, published as late as 1876,4 the name New 
                            London
                        
                appears on a map of 
                        Jefferson
                     County. The symbols show that there was a school in the village, but no church is
                    indicated. It would probably be safe to guess that what religious element there was in the
                    neighborhood, 
                  
                     3 Plat Book, No. 1.
                  
                     4
                            Illustrated Historical Atlas of the State of Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1876).
               
                     if any, was Baptist, since that was the most prominent sect
                    during the early period5 and the church nearest the site at the present is of
                    the Baptist denomination.
            At some time, presumably after 1876, the remaining New Londoners seem to have moved away from the
                    town. There are two legends which developed through attempts to explain this desertion of the
                    village. A romantic and highly fantastic tradition is that river pirates made it unsafe for
                    habitation. It is true that previous to the Civil War points along the 
                        Ohio
                     were the scenes of pirate activities, but there is no evidence to prove that New 
                        London
                     was disturbed by such outlaws. Captain Leander Gordon, now living in 
                        Hanover
                    , who was a pilot on the Ohio River for sixty-five years, has a
                    slight remembrance of the town. He recalls the fact that his parents, Mr. and Mrs. John Dean Gordon,
                    were married in New 
                        London
                    , but he thinks that they did not live there after marriage.
            The other tradition, the one which Mr. Baylor felt very sure about, was that New 
                        London
                     was the seat of one of a chain of counterfeiting gangs with the main branch at Saint
                    Louis. It was not far from, possibly on, the "Old National Road," as it was called
                    by the villagers, which ran through 
                  Jeffersonville,
                            Vincennes
               , and Saint Louis. It is thought
                    that government officials broke up this gang or that the members scattered to avoid arrest.
            A different reason for the depopulation of the settlement was offered by Captain Gordon. His
                    explanation seems more credible than the two presented above. High waters, a prelude to the final
                    destruction, flooded the town at various times. The natural result was that the people moved out
                    from time to time to protect themselves and their personal property. After one of these floods, it
                    was found that the land on which the vacated town had been located had been literally washed away.
                    Mrs. Baylor remembered hearing her sister tell of seeing some undermined houses fall into the river.
                    Professor Grant T. Wickwire, head of the department of Geology at Hanover College, agrees that such
                    a thing as that described by Captain Gordon could easily have happened, since New 
                        London
                     was situated in a curve of the 
                        Ohio
                     where the full force of the current attacked the fertile and fairly loose soil. 
                  
                     5
                            
                                
                                    Madison
                                
                             (pamphlet).
               
                     New 
                        London
                     is no longer on the map of 
                        Jefferson
                     County. It is now only another of Southern Indiana's "ghost
                    towns." When traveling over the picturesque country along the 
                        Ohio
                     one may see several communities that were once thriving centers, but which are now only
                    little clusters of homesteads. New 
                        London
                    , however, seems to be the only one that was destroyed by the 
                        Ohio
                    , which river has since the beginning of mid-western settlement had much to do with the
                    development of Indiana's political and economic history.
         
         
         
            David Rohrer Leeper
            H. S. K. BARTHOLOMEW
            
            In that admirable little volume, The Hoosiers, Meredith Nicholson says:
                    "Local History has not, unfortunately, attracted the literary fledgeling in Indiana so
                    often as could have been desired, though the field is inviting and thorough work of this kind is far
                    likelier to enjoy permanency than fair or indifferent fiction or mediocre verse." No county
                    of Indiana has been more fortunate in its local historians than 
                        St. Joseph
                     which has had several men of more than ordinary ability who devoted themselves to that
                    branch of literature. Foremost among them was the Hon. David Rohrer Leeper, one of the most
                    conspicuous figures in the city of 
                        South Bend
                     for many years and who is still remembered by all of its older citizens.
            David R. Leeper was born on January 12, 1832, in a log cabin some distance northwest of what was then
                    the little village of 
                        South Bend
                    . The place has been located a few rods north of the point where the 
                        Michigan
                     road crosses McCartney Creek. That part of the 
                        Michigan
                     road is now 
                        Michigan
                     avenue and the city extends miles beyond the birthplace of Mr. Leeper, which is not a
                    great distance from the business district. The cabin in which he was born was built of round logs,
                    had a puncheon floor, stick chimney and greased paper windows. It had been hastily built by his
                    father, Samuel Leeper, upon arriving in Indiana from 
                        Montgomery
                     county, 
                        Ohio
                    . In the year 1834, the family moved to a heavily wooded tract three miles southwest of
                    the village, but now almost within the city limits. Then began the arduous work of clearing up a
                    farm in which labor, as soon as he was old enough, the boy David had his share. The first
                    schoolhouse in that section of the country was built on this farm and David Leeper attended that
                    school during the short winter terms, working on the farm or in the woods the remainder of the year.
                    When he had mastered the branches of learning taught in that school, he attended the county seminary
                    several terms. Alternate school attendance and farming continued until he was seventeen years old.
                    While he was attending the seminary, news came that gold had been discovered in 
                        California
                    . In a very short time nearly everybody had the gold fever,  young Leeper being among those infected. His father finally consented
                    to let him go to the new land of promise, and, along with several young men of the neighborhood, he
                    started on February 22, 1849. The company had two ox teams with enough money and other necessaries
                    to see them through the long, tedious and perilous journey.
            The difficulties which the seventeen year old boy and his companions encountered were enough to
                    discourage any but the stoutest hearts. The roads were wholly unimproved, those in the timbered
                    regions merely cut through. There were few bridges over the streams. To add to their troubles there
                    had been a February thaw causing the streams to be swollen and all the prairie roads to be deep with
                    mud and slush. At LaSalle, 
                        Illinois
                    , they were delayed a week by high waters. Half the town of Peru a few miles farther on
                    was submerged by floods of the Illinois River. At Burlington, 
                        Iowa
                    , the Mississippi River was so far out of its banks that the
                    distance across was seven miles and they had to make the crossing on a rickety horse-ferry boat.
                    From Burlington they traveled through sparsely settled territory to 
                  St. Joseph, Missouri
               . With the
                    exception of small groups of huts at Fort Kearney and Fort Laramie, they did not see the home of a
                    white man until they reached the Sacramento valley, a distance of two thousand miles by the route
                    traversed. They reached their destination on October 11, seven months and nineteen days after they
                    started from 
                        South Bend
                    . Years afterwards Mr. Leeper described his travels and adventures in 
                        California
                     in a fascinating book, The Argonauta of '49, which
                    unfortunately is out of print.
            The party stopped at Redding's Diggings, but they did not like the place and moved on. The
                    rainy season had set in and by some means Mr. Leeper got separated from his companions on the way to 
                        Sacramento City
                     and never saw them again. He went on alone, reaching the city after traveling
                    thirty-six hours on foot without food or money. His first work there was the making of several
                    coffins from rough boards for miners who had died and had been laid out in their red shirts and blue
                    overalls on boards in the rear of the hotel. From Sacramento he wandered to Coloma where 
                        Marshall
                     had made the discovery of gold. He mined until the following fall when he went to
                    Humboldt where the lumbering industry  was just beginning to be
                    developed. There he engaged in the logging business which he continued until 1854, when he started
                    for home, coming by way of the Nicaragua route. At Greytown he sailed for 
                        New York
                     on the steamer Star of the West, the vessel that seven years later
                    was sent to relieve the garrison at Fort Sumter and was fired upon by Confederate troops.
            After his return he finished his schooling at the 
                        Mishawaka
                     Institute, but not his studying, for he was a student all his life. His reading covered
                    a wide range and included history, science, political economy and questions relating to government.
                    For years he was recognized as one of the most scholarly men in the circle with which he was
                    associated. He taught several terms in the rural schools of his neighborhood and as a teacher
                    displayed the energy and thoroughness which characterized him throughout his life.
            In 1864 he went to 
                        Montana
                    , where he remained four years. In 1866 he was nominated for a seat in the territorial
                    legislature and, although he was not elected, he received the highest number of votes of any
                    candidate on the ticket of his party. As his ancestors were Whigs, he early identified himself with
                    that party. When the Republican party arose he became a member, and it was as a Republican that he
                    made the race for representative in 
                        Montana
                    . However, through an extensive study of history and governmental problems, he found
                    himself out of harmony with the Republican party by 1872. Along with men like Lyman Trumbull, Gov.
                    Andrew G. Curtin, George W. Julian and many other former Republican leaders, he became a Liberal
                    Republican and then a Democrat. In 1872 a coalition of Democrats and Liberal Republicans nominated
                    him for representative from 
                        St. Joseph
                     county, but he declined. In 1876 he received the democratic nomination for the same
                    office and accepted. He was elected and served acceptably in the legislative session of 1877. In the
                    same legislature was a young member from 
                        Vermillion
                     county who was destined in later years to have a conspicuous part in the
                    state's activities. This was Claude Matthews, afterward Secretary of State and Governor of
                    Indiana. Having much in common in the way of scholarship, literary tastes and political convictions,
                    Leeper and Matthews became closely  associated and the friendship
                    then formed continued until death laid its icy hands upon Gov. Matthews.
            In 1878 Leeper was elected to the state senate from 
                        St. Joseph
                     and 
                        Starke
                     counties. He served the four year term and at each session was assigned to several of
                    the most important committees. In 1882 he declined the Democratic nomination for congress in the old
                    thirteenth district. While he was ready at all times to uphold the principles of his party, he had
                    no taste for office holding. However, he did finally consent in 1882 to become a candidate for
                    auditor of 
                        St. Joseph
                     county, a position which he was admirably qualified to fill. He was defeated along with
                    all the other Democratic candidates in the county, although he made a splendid race. His successful
                    opponent in that campaign was Aaron Jones, a prominent member of the Grange and one of the most
                    astute politicians of his day and generation. In 1892 Leeper received the unanimous nomination of
                    his party for mayor of 
                        South Bend
                    . The nomination came to him entirely unsolicited and was reluctantly accepted. The
                    Democrats were anything but hopeful of winning in the city election that year but believed that if
                    anybody could be elected it was Leeper. He was elected but most of the other candidates on the
                    ticket were defeated. At the end of his term, he declined a renomination. In January, 1895, his
                    friend, Gov. Matthews appointed him to the 
                        South Bend
                     police commission upon which he served until March, 1897. The legislature of 1897
                    passed a law providing for the reorganization of the metropolitan police boards in the state. In
                    January, 1899, Mr. Leeper was again appointed as a member of the board, this time by a Republican
                    governor, James A. Mount, and served until his death. He was also vice president of the 
                        South Bend
                     National Bank. In all of these positions his incumbency was marked by faithful,
                    painstaking, conscientious service. In 1892 Mr. Leeper and the writer of this article were appointed
                    as delegates to the Farmers' National Congress which met in 
                  Atlanta, Georgia
               .
                    Fraternally, Mr. Leeper was a thirty-second degree Mason, an Odd Fellow and a Knight of Pythias.
            David R. Leeper was best known during the last years of his life as a writer. In fact, it is as a
                    writer that he is remembered by those still living who knew him, and as such his name will be handed
                    down to future generations of 
                        South Bend
                     citizens.  His writings were principally on local
                    history and no man in 
                        St. Joseph
                     county was better equipped for that line of work than he. Born and reared amid pioneer
                    surroundings, he knew many of the early citizens of 
                        St. Joseph
                     county. He saw 
                        South Bend
                     grow from a small hamlet to a city with a population of over 75,000 at the time of his
                    death. He was an eye witness of the changes that took place and the progress that was made by both
                    city and surrounding country through more than three-score years. His wide circle of acquaintances
                    enabled him to obtain information from many sources and he made the best use of his opportunities.
                    Besides, he spent a great deal of time delving into the old musty records of both city and county
                    digging up many items of importance which nobody but a painstaking man like him could have found.
                    The old files of the 
                        South Bend
                    
                    Times, as well as of the Tribune, contain many contributions
                    from his versatile pen. If they could be gathered together they would make a volume of no mean
                    proportions and of almost priceless value.
            As a writer, Mr. Leeper was careful almost to a fault. No matter what subject he chose to discuss he
                    was not satisfied until he had examined it from every point of view. When writing local history, he
                    consulted every available, authority. When writing about men of 
                        South Bend
                    , he was known to have spent days in the old 
                        South Bend
                     cemetery in order to ascertain or verify a single date or the spelling of a name. He
                    was careful also to have his diction as pure as he could make it. He wrote and re-wrote until every
                    sentence was perfect. In fact, the same thoroughness was characteristic of everything he did. As a
                    result every article that bore his signature could be accepted as absolutely correct.
            When the Northern Indiana Historical Society was organized, he became one of the charter members and
                    to the end of his life was one of its active promoters. He was a regular attendant at its meetings
                    and prepared and read many papers at its sessions. These papers which cover nearly every phase of
                    the pioneer history of 
                        South Bend
                     and 
                        St. Joseph
                     County are treasured in its archives and are counted among its valuable possessions.
            He was fortunate in being associated in his mature years with many of the men and women who were
                    among the early residents of 
                        St. Joseph
                     county. He neglected no opportunity  to gather from
                    them all of the information which they could give him and his long acquaintance with them enabled
                    him to distinguish between those who were reliable and those who were not. He never was satisfied
                    with interviewing one individual concerning any circumstance or fact, but consulted every one whom
                    he thought might have information that he wanted. He also knew the value of old letters and old
                    documents of every kind and availed himself of their use whenever they were obtainable.
            Not only did he become thoroughly acquainted with pioneer life both through his own experience and
                    that of others, but he also obtained a vast fund of information concerning the Indians. In his
                    boyhood days Indians still roamed over 
                        St. Joseph
                     County. Those individuals who were able to furnish him pioneer history and traditions
                    were also versed in Indian lore. From them he learned to know the sites of the most important Indian
                    villages as well as the trails over which they traveled. He also learned much concerning their
                    habits, customs and manner of living. One of his papers read before the Historical Society bore the
                    title, "Our Savage Predecessors—their ancient haunts about the great bend of the
                        St. Joseph River." In this paper he dealt with several topics
                    under the sub-headings: "Indian Dress," "Indian Burying Grounds"
                    and "An Indian Funeral Cortege." In the course of the paper he described and gave
                    the locations of a number of Indian, villages. Another of his papers was entitled, "The
                        Notre Dame Lakes—Some Footprints of the Pioneers on their
                    Picturesque Shores." Both of these papers were published in the 
                        South Bend
                    
                    Times and future historians no doubt will make use of the valuable data which they
                    contain.
            In addition to his other accomplishments, Mr. Leeper was a fine musician. The first time the writer
                    ever saw him he was playing in an orchestra at a farmers' institute in the old Price
                    Theater in 
                        South Bend
                    .
            Mr. Leeper died on December 27, 1900, and it may be said that the death of no citizen of 
                        South Bend
                     was ever more sincerely mourned. Previous to the brief illness which terminated his
                    life, he appeared to be the picture of health and gave promise of many years of life and usefulness.
                    Quoting one of the city papers: 
                        Like a bolt from a clear sky came the sad news this morning that  David E. Leeper had died at an early hour. None were prepared
                            for such mournful tidings. On every side was entertained a sorrow akin to personal
                            bereavement and on every hand were heard encomiums upon the dead and expressions of sincere
                            sorrow over his demise.
                    
            
            In an editorial written on the day of his death his intimate friend, John B. Stoll, thus summed up
                    the traits and qualities of his character: 
                        David R. Leeper was a typical American gentleman. Singularly free of prejudice, thoroughly
                            familiar with the history and traditions of nations, and slow but sure to formulate opinions
                            regarding men and affairs, he was enabled to be just and impartial whenever he had occasion
                            to pass judgment. Only those who for years had come in close contact with him could have a
                            fair understanding of his wonderful store of information on almost every subject concerning
                            the human race and the affairs of man. When talking on religious topics it was never a task
                            for him to state with amazing accuracy the tenets of the various religious bodies that
                            constitute the greater part of the civilized world. When the affairs of nations were under
                            consideration the utmost familiarity with their origin, history and characteristics would be
                            revealed. Of our own governmental institutions and their inception and development his
                            delineations were masterpieces of research and completeness. If music chanced to be the
                            subject of conversation, Mr. Leeper displayed as much familiarity with the productions of
                            the masters as if he had made music the exclusive study of his life. It has been the good
                            fortune of the writer to come in contact with many men of genius and rare ability, but among
                            them all he has recollections of no one whose fund of general information covered so large a
                            scope as that of David R. Leeper. As the writer on more than one occasion said to him:
                            "Some up-to-date college ought to have secured your services to disseminate general
                            intelligence among its students. You might have been of incalculable benefit to at least
                            some of the young men of this country."
                    
            
            As a citizen Mr. Leeper was public spirited and was always ready to give his aid to any worthy
                    enterprise. He took a deep interest in all matters that tended to help his home city and to advance
                    the best interests of its people. He did not look with favor on all the projects which were
                    proposed, but did consider each one fairly and when convinced that it was meritorious gave it his
                    hearty support. When a movement had his approval, its projectors usually had no difficulty in
                    securing for it the support of the general public.
            At its first meeting after the death of Mr. Leeper, the Northern Indiana Historical Society adopted a
                    fitting testimonial in memory of the man which deserves a place here: 
                        Death certainly loved a shining mark when its fateful arrow winged its way to the heart and
                            home of South Bend's distinguished citizen,  the
                            Hon. David R. Leeper, an honored, highly esteemed and most useful member of the Northern
                            Indiana Historical Society.
                        His was indeed a kindly nature. It attracted to him all who came within the subtle influence
                            of his radiance. He was a gentleman of what is known as the old school—polished,
                            refined, kind hearted and broad minded. He loved labor and its results for the comforts it
                            brought humanity.
                        Few men have passed away from the circles of local social and industrial life who will be so
                            sorely missed or so sincerely mourned as our departed associate and co-laborer. In his
                            dealings with the world he made no distinction of caste or class. He practiced the golden
                            rule in private and public as few men do. Those who knew him intimately were better for his
                            acquaintance, and his friends will mourn for him as deeply as a beloved brother.
                        For his untiring efforts to obtain and place on record reliable local history reciting the
                            stirring events of the early settlement and development of this part of Indiana, this
                            society and the community at large owe him a lasting debt of gratitude. His was truly a
                            labor of love. Without the hope or expectation of material reward he devoted much valuable
                            time, in the latter part of his earthly career, to the gathering and compiling of authentic
                            information that has been imperishably incorporated into history and that will be readily
                            accepted as such by generations to come. History written by David Leeper bears the impress
                            of truth and impartiality and will be prized accordingly by all who remember him as a
                            companion of lovable qualities, as a man of inflexible integrity, as a citizen of exalted
                            character and as an author of exceptional resources and scholarly attainments.
                    
            
            This tribute came from people who had been closely associated with Mr. Leeper for many years and it
                    was well deserved. 
                        South Bend
                     has produced few men who were his equals and none who were his superiors. A third of a
                    century has passed since his death, but his name still has a conspicuous place in the city which was
                    his birthplace and his home nearly all his life.
         
         
         
            A History of the Indiana Presbytery of the United Presbyterian Church
            JOHN W. MELOY
            
            United Presbyterianism officially began in Indiana with, the union of the Associate Reformed
                    Presbyterian Church and the Associate Presbyterian Church in 1858.1 At that time
                    four Associate Presbyterian congregations,2 and twelve Associate Reformed
                    Presbyterian congregations3 passed into the United Presbyterian fold. Two of the
                        twelve,4 were later transferred to the Southern 
                        Illinois
                     Presbytery. Therefore, it may be said, that, to these four Seceder (Associate
                    Presbyterian) and ten Associate Reformed Presbyterian congregations, together with four other
                    congregations organized later,5 the present Presbytery of Indiana (United
                    Presbyterian) owes its origin.
            In great measure the United Presbyterian congregations that developed in Indiana were descendants of
                    Scotch and Scotch-Irish who in the times of the Stuarts migrated to the American colonies to find
                    peace and religious toleration. In 1883, Dr. James A. Woodburn wrote of these: "For their
                    religion's sake they left their native land, and in their migration to this country by the
                    shiploads, by hundreds and by thousands they brought their religion with them."6 These Scotch-Irish along with German sects from the Rhine provinces settled in
                    great numbers in the Piedmont Plateau of 
                        Virginia
                     and the Carolinas before the Revolutionary War. Both the Scotch-Irish and the Germans
                    who colonized the southern frontier in the colonial period moved southward largely from the
                        Great Valley of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     through the 
                  
                     1 See James A. Woodburn, "United Presbyterian
                            Beginnings," in Indiana Magazine of History (March, 1934), XXX,
                            16–28.
                  
                     2 The four were: Carmel (including Bethel, just reunited),
                                    
                        Madison, Bloomington
                     , and Ruhama (later known as 
                                Scotland
                            ).
                  
                     3 The twelve were: New Zion (Spring Hill),
                            Caledonia, Shiloh (Mays), Bethesda (Milroy), Richland (in 
                                Rush
                             County), Glenwood (Vienna, in 
                                Rush
                             County), First 
                        Indianapolis,
                                    Princeton, Bloomington
                     , Eden (in 
                                Gibson
                             County), Morea (Palestine, in 
                                Illinois
                            ), and Carmi (
                                West Union
                            , in 
                                Illinois
                            ).
                  
                     4 Save the last two in the list in preceding footnote, both pf which
                            were located in 
                                Illinois
                            .
                  
                     5 The four were: Somerville, Woodruff, Rushville, and Witherspoon. A
                            congregation organized at 
                                Oakland City
                             had a life of about five years. Another, West Bethel of Duncanville, 
                                Illinois
                            , was later transferred to the Southern 
                                Illinois
                             Presbytery. A "New Side" Covenanter congregation in 
                                Bloomington
                             at the time of the 
                                Union
                             in 1858 had merged with the 
                                Bloomington
                             United Presbyterian congregation by 1876.
                  
                     6 See James A. Woodburn, "History of the United Presbyterian
                            Congregation of 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, for Fifty Years, 1833–1883," in a pamphlet, Semi-Centennial Anniversary of the United Presbyterian Congregation of 
                                    Bloomington
                                 Indiana (1883).
               
                     Shenandoah valley and through or over the Blue Ridge by the
                    water gaps or wind gaps of those mountains. The Scotch-Irish became active supporters of the cause
                    of independence when the crisis came. It was the Scotch-Irish, "descending from the
                    Covenanters of 
                        Scotland
                    —as great a people as ever lived on earth—that established here in
                    this then unsettled country the three congregations from which we [United Presbyterian congregation
                    of 
                        Bloomington
                    ] came. They came to 
                        Monroe
                     County from 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , the Carolinas, 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                    ."7
            
            The first of the old Seceder (Associate Presbyterian) congregations in Indiana was Carmel in 
                        Jefferson
                     County, organized in 1812. The people who formed this congregation came from
                    Drennon's Creek, 
                        Henry
                     County, near 
                  Louisville, Kentucky
               . Rev. Andrew Fulton came with them and
                    became pastor of the Carmel Congregation. About six years later other Seceders from that part of 
                        Kentucky
                     south of 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana, organized the 
                        Madison
                     congregation. These two congregations continued until dissolution—
                        Madison
                     to 1912 and Carmel to 1928.
            The Associate Reformed Presbyterian Church at New Zion (Spring Hill) was the
                    next to be founded in Indiana (1825). It was made up of people from the Old Zion congregation near
                            
                  Lexington, Kentucky
               , who had migrated north because of their attitude upon the
                    slavery question. Apparently the same kind of people settled at what is now Milroy and organized the
                    Bethesda congregation in 1828. The Richland congregation, in the same county (
                        Rush
                    ), was organized about ten years later (1837). A history of 
                        Rush
                     County relates that this body was composed of Tennesseeans, Kentuckians and a few South
                    Carolinians. Shiloh (Mays, since 1832) was made up of Kentuckians for the most part, some of them
                    coming from 
                        Harrison
                     County, 
                        Kentucky
                    . In the historical accounts and records to which the writer has had access, specific
                    mention is made of several families in the 
                        Princeton
                     congregation who came from 
                        Tennessee
                     (
                        Blount County
                    ), and of some families at Caledonia who came direct from 
                        Scotland
                    . The names 
                        Scotland
                     and Caledonia adopted by certain congregations certainly suggest such an origin of the
                    people, and the names of many families still on the rolls 
                  
                     7 Woodburn, in ibid., 38.
               
                     of the different congregations indicate Scotch descent, as
                    already intimated.
            As to the conditions in Indiana in the early days of these congregations, Dr. Woodburn writes that
                    Indiana was then of the far west. Statehood came only in 1816, when the 
                        Mississippi
                     was the frontier line, though colonists were already going into 
                        Missouri
                    : 
                        
                     
                        California, Oregon
                     , Nevada, 
                        New
                                    Mexico, Arizona, Colorado, Utah
                      and 
                                Texas
                             were all in a foreign country; we had not a mile of railroad in the state; the
                            wolf and the Indian were still prowling in the woods; 
                                Bloomington
                             was then of 400 or 500 population with 
                                Vincennes
                             and 
                                Madison
                             the nearest markets; intelligence was meager; all implements of labor were
                            rude; in great measure our fathers and mothers built their own houses, made their own
                            clothes, raised their own food, and from one year's end to the other, lived
                            independent of the outside world. All around us was almost an unbroken forest.8
                  
                    
            
            Fundamental to the Presbyterian system of government is the grouping of congregations into
                    presbyteries. The number of congregations constituting a presbytery varies, never being less than
                    two and seldom more than two score, depending of course on geographical location and accessibility
                    to the congregations included. Prior to the union of 1858, there were two presbyteries, one in each
                    denomination: the Presbytery of Southern Indiana in the Seceder (Associate Presbyterian) church; and
                    the Presbytery of Indiana in the Associate Reformed Presbyterian denomination.
            According to Scouller's Manual,9 the presbytery of the
                    Seceder or Associate Presbyterian Church of 
                        Kentucky
                    , including congregations in 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                    , was organized on November 28, 1798, by authority of "the General Associate
                    Synod" of 
                        Scotland
                    . The ministers involved in this organization were Rev. Robert Armstrong and Rev. Andrew
                    Fulton. Congregations formed in Southern 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana were added when Mr. Armstrong and a large part of his charge moved to
                    Massie's Creek and Sugar Creek, 
                        Ohio
                    , in 1804. When Rev. 
                        Fulton
                     and the greater part of his people moved to Carmel, Indiana, the name of the presbytery
                    was changed on May 28, 1821, by authority of Synod, to the Presbytery of 
                        Miami
                    . In 1830 this presbytery was enlarged by the addition of the congregations of the
                    "Western Mission." In 
                  
                     8
                            Ibid., 39.
                  
                     9
                            J. B. Scouller, Manual of the United Presbyterian Church of
                                North America (1887).
               
                     August, 1838, the presbyteries of Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                     were separated from it. The Associate Reformed Presbytery of 
                        Miami
                     entered the 
                        Union
                     of 1858, adjourning at 
                  Springfield,
                            Ohio
               , December 28, 1858.
            According to the same authority, the Presbytery of 
                        Ohio
                     was formed by separation from the Associate Reformed Presbyterian presbytery of 
                        Kentucky
                     on April 9, 1817. It included the Southwestern portion of 
                        Ohio
                    . After the Second 
                        Ohio
                     presbytery was formed on August 11, 1824, it was known as the First 
                        Ohio
                     and included all the congregations in the states of 
                        Illinois
                     and Indiana, except that at 
                        Richmond
                    , Indiana. The Presbytery of Western 
                        Kentucky
                    , including the part of the state west of a line drawn due south from the mouth of the
                    Great Miami River, was added to the First 
                        Ohio
                     Presbytery in 1837. The Presbytery of 
                        Illinois
                     was separated from the First 
                        Ohio
                     Presbytery in 1842 (April 6), and the Presbytery of 
                        Michigan
                     was formed from it on April 13, 1843. The First 
                        Ohio
                     Presbytery entered the 
                        Union
                     of 1858.
            Following the union of 1858, the United Presbyterian congregations in Indiana were realigned. Those
                    south of forty degrees North Latitude and east of the New 
                        Albany
                     and 
                        Salem
                     Railroad, now known as the "Monon," were organized as Indiana
                    Presbytery. Certain churches in Western 
                        Kentucky
                     were also to be included in this presbytery, but the writer has not found their names
                    in any record. The congregations south of the fortieth parallel and west of the New 
                        Albany
                     and 
                        Salem
                     Railroad were formed into the 
                        Princeton
                     Presbytery.
            The 
                        Princeton
                     Presbytery was organized at 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana, on May 13, 1859, Rev. William Turner presiding. The ministers forming this
                    presbytery were: Rev. William Turner and Rev. John Bryan of 
                        Bloomington
                    ; Rev. John L. Craig of 
                        Princeton
                    ; Rev. Robert Gray of Eden; James Ingles of 
                        Scotland
                    ; and Thomas Turner of Carmi. The churches at Morea and Duncanville were without pastors
                    at that time. The names of the Elders present are not preserved by Scouller. In 1865, by order of
                    the Second Synod, White River Presbytery was organized, including ministers,
                    William Turner, James Ingles, William G. Spencer, John Bryan and M. M. Brown. In 1870 this
                    presbytery was merged with the 
                    
                        Princeton
                     Presbytery, the consolidation being effected at 
                        Princeton
                     on September 29, 1871.
            Indiana Presbytery was organized at Spring Hill on April 13, 1859, by
                    representatives of the congregations of the two uniting denominations in southeastern Indiana. The
                    ministers forming the new Presbytery were Moses Arnott of Carmel, Joseph R. Walker of what is now
                        Spring Hill, Nathan McDill of Milroy and Richland, J. F. Hutchison of Mays
                    and Vienna and Thomas Dickson of Caledonia. The church at 
                        Madison
                     and the First 
                        Indianapolis
                     were without pastors at this time. Scouller's Manual does
                    not record the names of the Elders present. This presbytery was augmented by the dissolution of 
                        Princeton
                     Presbytery on December 30, 1907. The members of the abandoned presbytery were added to
                    the roll of the Indiana Presbytery. The certified roll of 
                        Princeton
                     Presbytery so received included Rev. W. H. Patterson, Ph.D., of 
                        Princeton
                    , Rev. T. H. Hanna, Jr., of 
                        Bloomington
                     and Rev. W. H. Hemphill of Duncanville, Morea, and West 
                        Union
                    . Pastors without charges were Rev. D. A. McClung, Rev. Alex Mayn, and Rev. T. H. Hanna,
                    D. D. These were received at the meeting of the Indiana Presbytery at Milroy on April 7, 1908, W. H.
                    Patterson, Moderator.
            During the last quarter century, the 
                        Illinois
                     congregations at Duncanville, Morea and Carmi were transferred to the Southern 
                        Illinois
                     Presbytery. Eden merged with Somerville in 1908. 
                        Madison
                     disbanded in 1912, Glenwood in 1923, and Carmel in 1928. Woodruff was organized in
                    1892, Rushville in 1879, and Witherspoon in 1907.
            The Second Synod meeting in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on October 9–10, 1934, authorized the union of Northern Indiana Presbytery
                    of the United Presbyterian Church with Indiana Presbytery and directed that this be effected in
                    April, 1935. The two Presbyteries will meet at 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana, on April 9–10, 1935, to complete their union. This marks the
                    return of the Indiana portion of 
                        Michigan
                     Presbytery (Associate Reformed Presbyterian) which was formed in 1843 as already
                    indicated. In 1864, 
                        Michigan
                     Presbytery was divided into 
                        Detroit
                     Presbytery consisting of the 
                        Michigan
                     congregations, and 
                        Wabash
                     Presbytery comprising the several Indiana congregations. In 1862, this 
                        Wabash
                     Presbytery received the larger number of the congregations of the Associate  Presbytery of Northern Indiana and the name adopted by the union was
                    Northern Indiana Presbytery. Of some nineteen congregations,10 ten that belonged
                    at one time to Northern Indiana Presbytery, only three remain to enter the union of 1935. These are: 
                        Salem
                    , near Kirklin, Rev. Chas. H. McClung (pastor); Idaville, Rev. R. L. Warnock (stated
                    supply); and Hebron,_____ (pastor). Indiana
                    Presbytery congregations and pastors are as follows at present: 
                        Princeton
                    , Rev. John P. Nesbit, D.D.; Milroy, Rev. W. Guy Hamilton; Witherspoon, Rev. D. F. White
                    (stated supply); 
                        Bloomington
                    , Rev. John W. Meloy; 
                        Scotland
                    , Rev. W. M. Lorimer (stated supply); Woodruff Ave., 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Rev. W. C. Ball; First Indianapolis, Rev. J. A. Hears (stated supply);
                        Spring Hill, Rev. W. W. Woodburn; Rushville, Rev. H. E. Lobaugh; Caledonia,
                    Rev. Jacob J. Vellenga; Mays and
                    Somerville,_____. A. W. Jamieson, D.D., and
                    J. P. Cowan, D.D., are members of Presbytery without charges. The new Presbytery when formed will
                    include fifteen congregations, with thirteen pastors and two ministers without charges, representing
                    a total of one thousand seven hundred seventeen communicants. The new Indiana Presbytery will
                    include all United Presbyterian congregations within the state except congregations at
                            
                  Gary, Hammond
                and Indiana Harbor, which will remain under 
                        Chicago
                     Presbytery, 
                        Richmond
                    , still in First 
                        Ohio
                     Presbytery, and 
                        California
                    , near Ray, Indiana, yet in 
                        Ohio
                     Northwestern Presbytery.
            The appended footnote indicates the approximate chronology of the pastorates.11
                    Behind the names and dates there are many notable accomplishments which cannot be discussed in
                    detail. It seems proper to mention one. During the pastorate of forty-four years filled by N. C.
                    McDill at Richland, the Richland Academy flourished for a decade (1858–1868). The Academy
                    was established by Rev. A. S. Montgomery who was preaching for an Associate Reformed congregation at
                    Clarksburg 
                  
                     10 The nineteen congregations follow: Bethsaida, organized 1849;
                            disbanded 1934; Burnett's Creek (now Idaville), organized 1843; Hebron, organized
                            1830; Murray, organized 1846, disbanded 1912; 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , First, organized in 1852, disbanded in 1856; 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Second, organized 1891, disbanded in 1896; 
                                Providence
                             (Mt. Pleasant), organized in 1891, disbanded 1934; 
                                Salem
                            , organized in 1837; 
                                Frankfort
                            , organized in 1849, disbanded in 1857; LaPorte, organized in 1839, disbanded in
                            1875; LaFayette, First, organized in 1839, disbanded in 1871; LaFayette, Second, organized
                            in 1863, disbanded in 1869; 
                                Warren
                            , organized in 1847, disbanded (?); 
                                Alexandria
                            , organized in 1893, disbanded in 1901; Mount Hope, organized in 1837, disbanded
                            in 1871; 
                                Portland
                             Mills, organized in 1859, disbanded in 1912; 
                                Muncie
                            , organized 1902, disbanded 1913; LeEoy, organized in 1888, released from a
                            united charge with Hebron in 1915.
                  
                            11 The pastors of the congregations that were in time included in the
                            Presbytery of Indiana are here listed. The dates to 1903 are from the Cyclopedic Manual of the United
                        
               
                     and extended his field of labor to Richland where there were
                    families of his faith. The school was opened and stock to the amount of two thousand dollars
                    subscribed in 1855. Until the building was completed the following year classes met in the Old
                    School Presbyterian Church. The attendance rose from thirty-nine the first year to sixty-nine in
                    1859–60. An unusual number of young men entered the ministry from this congregation.
                    Probably the Academy and the influence of the church combined were responsible. Following are the
                    names of those who entered the service of the church from this congregation: R. E. Stewart, J. P.
                    Cowan, John C. Stewart, Thomas B. Stewart, Robert E. Stewart, David E. Stewart, Elmer B. Stewart,
                    William M. Butler, Samuel H. McDill, Clarence Pinkerton, Mary E. Logan (missionary to 
                        India
                    ), and Mary J. Fisher (Freedmen's work in 
                        Tennessee
                    ). Other communities can also show worthy achievements. Indeed, the congregations of the
                    Indiana Presbytery have had their part in the nurture of men high in the educational world and in
                    the political, industrial and business life of their respective communities.
            
               
                        
                     Presbyterian Church of North America by William Melancthon Glasgow; from
                            1908–85 the dates are from Presbytery Records.
                        
                     
                                
                                    Madison
                                
                             (1818–1912): Andrew Isaac, 1820–27; John Wallace,
                            1831–33; J. M. Henderson, 1884–85; G. M. Hall, 1836–89;
                            James Brown, 1844–55; Sam. Collins, 1860–67; J. F. Hutchison,
                            1868–76; J. A. Kennedy, 1878–83; J. L. Aten, 1884–94; W. E.
                            Leeper, 1896–97; Edgar McDill, 1899–1911. Disbanded July 17, 1912.
                        
                     Carmel (
                                Jefferson
                             County 1812, A. P., 1928): From 
                                Henry
                             County, Ky.; 1812: Andrew Fulton, 1812–18; Andrew Isaac,
                            1820–27; John Wallace, 1831–32; J. M. Henderson, 1884–44;
                            Moses Arnot, 1847–74; H. P. Jackson, 1876–89; J. D. Lytle,
                            1890–1910; C. W. Comin, 1910–12; H. D. Gordon, 1914–20; T.
                            F. Campbell, 1921–22. Disbanded in December 18, 1928.
                        
                     New Zion (
                                Spring Hill
                            , 
                                Decatur
                             County, July 80, 1825. A. E. P.): James Worth, 1830–52; J. B.
                            Walker, 1852–68; S. A. Taggart, 1868–68; William Johnston,
                            1871–78; William Johnston, 1878–76; W. M. Ritchie, 1877–79;
                            A. S. Vincent, 1880–88; T. H. McMichael, 1890–92; H. H. Crawford,
                            1893–95; Paul Stewart, 1896–1900; W. N. Ferguson, 1901–15;
                            W. W. McCall, 1906–12; Frederick Elliott, 1918–18; J. S. E. McMichael,
                            1919–21; J. H. McCann, 1922–29; W. W. Woodburn, 1930–86.
                            Called Spring Hill instead of New Zion after 1873.
                        
                     Caledonia (
                                Jefferson
                             County, A. E. P. 1833): William Home, 1884–88; N. E. Kirkpatrick,
                            1864–56; Thomas Dickson, 1858–61; Andrew McBride, 1873–79;
                            N. E. Walker, 1879–82; J. E. Black, 1886–89; J. M. McConnell,
                            1893–96; H. M. Jamieson, 1900–04; N. B. McClung, 1905–07;
                            F. W. Schmunk, 1908–24; E. H. Cherry, 1925–28; Jacob Vellenga, 1933.
                        
                     Shiloh (Mays, 
                                Henry
                             County, September 16, 1832. A. E. P.): J. N. Pressly, 1888–41;
                            William Lind, 1841–46; Samuel Mlllen, 1847–49; E. E. Stewart,
                            1860–55; J. F. Hutchison, 1857–66; H. W. Crabbe, 1868–69;
                            T. P. Dysart, 1869–78; S. M. Bailey, 1877–81; J. A. Pollock,
                            1882–86; G. I. Gordon, 1889–95; E. W. Thompson, 1898-; H. Eabb,
                            1908–07; J. H. Miller, 1912–13; J. H. McCann, 1914–16;
                            (Walter Cooley, 1917-); C. Garman Hohnston, 1919–21; (Frank Wilson, 1824 and J.
                            Ashenhurst, 1825, supplies). Joint charge with Eushville 1928.
                        
                     Bethesda (November 18, 1828, A.E.P. Changed to Milroy,
                            1865): James Worth, 1830–87; J. N. Pressly, 1838–61; N. C. McDill,
                            1852–59; J. I. Frazer, 1861–65; W. A. Hutchison, 1866–69;
                            James Freeborn, 1870–71; A. E. Eankin, 1878–76; J. F. Hutchison,
                            1876–89; Ainsworth Hope, 1898–1902; F. W. Schmunk, 1902–07;
                            Paul Stewart, 1910–15; Willard Wylie, 1916–18; (J. S. E. McMichael,
                            stated supply, 1919–21); W. Guy Hamilton, 1922-.
                        
                     Richland (
                                Eush County
                            , Indiana, April 14, 1887. A. E. P.): J. N. Pressley, 1838–51; N. C.
                            McDill, 1852–96; Ainsworth Hope, 1898–02; F. W. Schmunk,
                            1902–07. Disbanded in 1910.
                    
            
            
            
               
                        
                     Vienna (
                                Rush
                             County, A. E. P., September 11, 1847. Changed to Glenwood,
                            1889): R. E. Stewart, 1850–65; J. F. Hutchison, 1857–59; J. I.
                            Frazier, 1861–65; Adrian Aten, 1866–70; A. R. Rankin,
                            1878–76; J. F. Hutchison, 1876–89; R. P. Cooke, 1903–07.
                            Disbanded, December 19, 1923.
                        
                     First 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                     , 1872: J. L. Clark, 1872–75; H. G. McVey,
                            1875–76; J. P. Cowan, 1880–92; J. A. Littell, 1893–1900; C.
                            M. Lawrence, 1900–05; D. G. McKay, 1906–08; George L. Brown,
                            1909–18; (S. H. Bailes, 1919–21; J. A. Henderson, 1921–25,
                            E. S. Daum, 1927–29, J. A. Mears, 1930-stated supplies).
                        
                     Woodruff Ave. 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                      (November 21, 1892): J. P. Cowan, 1898–1924; E. W. Welch,
                            1924–29; W. C. Ball, 1929-.
                        
                     Rushville (October 1, 1879): A. P. Hutchison, 1881–85; S. R.
                            Frazier, 1885–87; N. L. Heidger, 1887–90; W. H. French,
                            1890–97; E. G. Bailey, 1898–1900; W. P. McGarey, 1901–06;
                            W. H. Clark, 1907–10; A. W. Jamieson, 1910–15; J. T. Aiken,
                            1916–20; E. G. McKibben, 1921–26; E. Dwight McKune,
                            1927–30; H. E. Lobaugh, 1930-.
                        
                     
                                
                                    Princeton
                                
                             (1834, A. P. & A. R. P.) A. P.: J. L. McLean, 1839–43. Disbanded
                            1854. A. R. P.: S. C. Baldridge, 1837–53; J. L. Craig, 1854–65; S. F.
                            Clark, 1870–74; W. H. McMaster, 1874–81; J. A. Gordon,
                            1883–88; J. B. Lee, 1889–91; A. M. Campbell, 1892–1901; W.
                            H. Patterson, 1902–10; Morris Watson, 1911–21; John P. Nesbit, 1922-.
                        
                     
                        
                                    Princeton
                                 Second: John McMaster, 1870–7. United with preceding, 1874.
                        
                     
                                
                                    Bloomington
                                
                             (September 7, 1833) A. R. P.: W. D. Turner, 1836–64. A. P. 1834: James
                            Lyle, 1884–86; I. N. Laughead, 1839–43; John Bryan,
                            1855–62; changed to 
                                Union
                             Church, 1864. E. P.: T. A. Wylie, 1838–69; to 
                                Union
                             Church, 1869. U. P.; W. P. Nary, 1871–84; S. E. Lyone,
                            1885–98; W. A. Littell, 1899–1901; J. D. Barr, 1902–06; T.
                            H. Hanna, Jr., 1907–17; James L. Kelso, 1919–23; J. Merle Rife,
                            1924–27; John W, Meloy, 1928-. Ruhamah (
                                Greene
                             County, 1852. Changed to 
                                
                                    Scotland
                                
                            , 1859. A. P.): James Ingles, 1858–1902; D. A. McClung, 1902–10;
                            (H. Sleman, stated supply, 1910–13); J. H. McCann, 1917–21; (W. C.
                            Ball, stated supply, 1923–26); Alvin J. McConnell, 1927–28; W. M.
                            Lorimer, stated supply, 1929-.
                        
                     Somerville. (
                                Gibson
                             County, June 2, 1860): Eobert Gray, 1862–66; James McCrea,
                            1868–78; W. G. Spencer, 1877–82; A. S. Montgomery, 1884–90;
                            J. D. Palmer, 1898–1900; D. A. McClung, 1902; (H. Sleman, and J. G. Bradt,
                            supplies); Paul E. Ferguson, 1921–22; W. P. Cooley, 1922–26.
                        
                     Eden (
                                Gibson
                             County, 1889. A. E. P.): C. S. Baldridge, 1840–58; Robert Gray,
                            1856–62; James McCrea, 1868–72; W. G. Spencer, 1878–82; A.
                            S. Montgomery, 1884–90; J. D. Palmer, 1898–1900; D. A. McClung, 1902.
                            Merged with Somerville, 1908.
                        
                     
                                
                                    Oakland City
                                
                            , 1881: W. G. Spencer, 1881–88; A. S. Montgomery, 1884–86.
                            Disbanded, 1886.
                        
                     Weft Bethel (Duncanville, Ill.), 1869; Hugh McHatton,
                            1874–92; W. T. Warnock, 1895–97; D. A. McClung, 1899–1902.
                            Transferred to Southern 
                                Illinois
                             Presbytery.
                        
                     Palestine (
                                Crawford
                             County, Ill. Changed to Morea, 1871. A, R, P,) 1849: A. R.
                            Rankin, 1862–56; Alexander McHatton, 1861–71; O. G. Brockett,
                            1878–82; W. D. Ralston, 1887–94; W. T. Warnock, 1896–96; D.
                            A. McClung, 1899–02. Transferred to Southern 
                                Illinois
                             Presbytery.
                        
                     Carmi (
                                White
                             County, Ill., 1887. A. R. P.): S. C. Baldridge, 1840–53; James
                            Morrow, 1858–55; Thomas Turner, 1858–60; A. S. Montgomery,
                            1864–82; J. D. Palmer, 1898–1900; G. F. Brockett, 1900–02;
                            D. A. McClung, 1902-. Changed to West 
                                Union
                            . Transferred to Southern 
                                Illinois
                             Presbytery.
                        
                     Witherspoon (Colored), 
                                Indianapolis
                             (1907): (D. F. White, stated supply, 1909–11); John Brice,
                            1912–18; A. P. Clark, 1921–26; D. F. White, 1927–.
                    
            
         
         
         
            
               
                        Brown
                     County Fifty Years Ago
            GEORGE S. COTTMAN
            
            
               
                        Brown
                     County's inherent poverty and its topographical relation to the most
                    prosperous part of the state paved the way for its present publicity. Lying at the northern boundary
                    of the broken country that distinguishes certain areas of southern Indiana from the level lands up
                    state, it thrusts itself into the central plain as if offering its wild and picturesque surface as a
                    play-ground to the plainsmen of the North who are less favored with romantic surroundings. In the
                    heart of it lies the town of 
                        Nashville
                    , some forty miles from 
                        Indianapolis
                    —an easy journey in this auto age.
            A succession of developments has placed 
                        Brown
                     County in the limelight. After long years in which no railroad touched the County at
                    any point, one of those harbingers of civilization cut across a corner of the region, but missed 
                        Nashville
                     by six miles, so there had to be a connecting bus. By reason of some mysterious
                    atmospheric richness, the hills and dales and wild, woodsy landscapes are bathed in a beauty of
                    tints all their own, and this, coupled with an abundance of log cabins and the quaint living
                    conditions, survivals of the pioneer period, made 
                        Brown
                     County a wonderful find for those persons who are searching for the unusual in human
                    life and nature. Consequently the painter folk, Gypsies of American life, came drifting thitherward
                    till by and by a full fledged artists' colony was established.
            Not a few members of the artist gild manifested their faith in the permanency of the wild country by
                    buying property and building homes there. A natural result has been that other people of idyllic
                    tastes with leanings towards the idea of a lodge in the wilds began to look about for cabins where
                    they might flee the madding world on occasion. In time, came Kin Hubbard, the creator of that most
                    popular of rural characters, Abe Martin, whose sayings were for a score of years
                    household words far and wide. The gifted humorist made 
                        Brown
                     County his habitat, which helped not a little to keep that natural beauty spot in the
                    public eye. More recently the state Department of Conservation has added to its system of public
                    holdings an extensive forest and game preserve near 
                        Nashville
                    . The highest hill crest, Weedpatch  Knob, has been
                    crowned with a steel observation tower, from the top of which what seems the most of Indiana can be
                    seen at one glance. Last, but not least as factors in the changes that have taken place in the
                    County during a half century are the improved roads and the ever present automobile for these have
                    made the region easily accessible.
            Fifty years ago 
                        Brown
                     County was famous in a small way as an isolated region, difficult of access, peopled by
                    hill folk who lived in log cabins, the conservers of primitive customs rapidly passing in other
                    parts of the state. That wild country borrowed romance, also, from the tradition that it was a land
                    of gold. As early as 1850, as a local offset to the 
                        California
                     excitement of that period, newspapers began to spread tidings about findings of the
                    precious metal in this little known 
                        Indiana
                     county. For years there persisted dreams of great wealth hidden there. Along with the
                    gold, in the tradition, went precious stones of divers kinds, from diamonds down, all of which were
                    to be found. Then there were the fruits, particularly peaches, which abounded in season.
            Among the country boys of my acquaintance, it was considered quite an outing to drive "down
                    to 
                        Brown
                    " in the latter part of summer, with a camping outfit, to return with a load of
                    its choicest peaches. Thus there were multiplied incentives to the adventure of exploring the
                    county, made more intriguing by the difficulty of getting there.
            That is why I, a farmer youth, with a disposition to extend the horizon of my little world, made my
                    first trip into this fascinating land of hills, afoot and alone, prepared to live like an Indian if
                    need be. The nearest railway point to my Ultima Thule was the village of Morgantown, northward of
                    the county line. This I reached from 
                        Franklin
                     over an obscure "jerk-water" road on a mixed train which conveyed a
                    miscellaneous burden of freight and passengers all at the same time, the passengers riding in an
                    ancient coach appended like a tail to the freight cars. When the train was moving, people, live
                    stock and merchandise went rocking and jolting gayly along the right-of-way at a fifteen mile clip,
                    but when the train stopped to leave consignments of freight at wayside platforms, many of the
                    travellers would leave the coach to  stretch their legs and look
                    about. At one of these stops, the conductor invited us all over to a nearby orchard to enjoy some
                    apples, and while there the owner and his wife came from an adjacent house to have a social chat
                    with the visitors. The good woman brought with her some samples of dry goods which she gave to our
                    conductor with the request that he do a little shopping for her when at Martinsville and leave the
                    purchases on his way back. A feature that added further variety to the journey was a load of
                    squealing hogs, that were going to market in a car immediately in front of the passenger coach.
            When this happy assortment of swine, people, farming implements, dry goods, and what-not reached
                    Morgantown it still lacked an hour or so of dark. Not far to the south of us the visible hills of 
                        Brown
                     County beckoned, and, as I had with me rations for a cold supper, I tarried not but
                    struck out on foot trusting to 
                        Providence
                     for a bed a little later on. The rude dirt road which I followed led into regions that
                    grew wilder and more broken, and the humble houses along the wayside became farther and farther
                    apart till they seemed to cease altogether. The prospect for a bed grew correspondingly slim, and
                    finally, as the dusk deepened into night, a strawstack just over the fence at the side of the road,
                    suddenly loomed up in the darkness. What better refuge than this did a husky young man out for
                    adventure need? Investigation proved it to be a new stack with an abundance of clean soft straw out
                    of which to make a nest on the leeward side. To abbreviate this part of the narrative, there I spent
                    the night, sleeping the sleep of the weary, on a couch that seemed of feathers.
            This was my introduction to 
                        Brown
                     county. To tell anything like the complete story of my haphazard wanderings there for
                    several days—of the diverse characters I met and the interesting things that befell me
                    would be to swell this article beyond proper limits. I can only give the high lights as they linger
                    in my memory. First, I recall the wildness of the place. If you read the records of Indiana in the
                    Civil War, you will find, that draft-dodgers and deserters from the army at that period came from
                    afar to lose themselves in the quiet and remote hills of 
                        Brown
                     County. I can see why they did so, for I got lost there so often that it ceased to be a
                    novelty.  Since I was headed for no place in particular and
                    rather enjoyed not knowing where I was, I journeyed by the winding paths as often as by the
                    primitive public roads.
            The crude by-ways took me into the very heart of the fastnesses, and as they always led somewhere,
                    being for the most part short cuts from place to place, they not infrequently brought me to a
                    log-cabin home where the family lived in real seclusion. To these people the unexpected advent of a
                    stranger with a haversack on his shoulder was no commonplace event and it needed only a friendly
                    advance on my part to encourage social reciprocity. One instance stands out conspicuously. That was
                    when I came upon a veritable "cabin in the clearing," buried in the woods, miles,
                    as it seemed to me, from anywhere. A man and a boy were plowing among the stumps with a yoke of oxen
                    to the accompaniment of vociferous "gees" and "haws," while in
                    and about the cabin were the rest of the family—wife, children, dogs, pigs and chickens.
                    The prospect of a morning call caused all other business to be suspended and I became the center of
                    interest. The man was as curious about my manner of living as I was about his. When I told him how I
                    happened to be there, he could not quite comprehend why anybody should come so far just to see a
                    wild, hill country. However, he "reckoned" it took all sorts of people to make a
                    world. As for himself, there seemed a reason why one should spend money and sweat to visit a big
                    town to see the sights. "Or a cir-cuss," added his young scion, the ox driver,
                    "I'd walk clear to Injenapolis to see a cir-cuss, if pap 'ud let
                    me."
            Our little confab was broken up when an unruly member of this backwoods family, a long-legged shoat,
                    came familiarly nosing about its master's feet. A long-eared hound resented the intrusion
                    by sharply nipping the young porker. The latter, galvanized into sudden activity, got entangled in
                    the man's underpinning and the biped came down in a heap, wildly clawing the air with all
                    four limbs. Up he came again with a club in his hand and fury in his eye, but, as both shoat and dog
                    had vamoosed to a safe distance, he shied the club at the son who stood by shrieking in irreverent
                    mirth. Next, the good-wife appeared in the doorway with the query: "What's all the
                    furse? What's the matter, Pa?" The hillman was in no mood to explain, and I,
                    bidding the family a hasty farewell,  disappeared in the brush
                    where I was no longer obliged to repress my laughter.
            Among the interesting characters that I ran across was an inventor living in the northern part of 
                        Brown
                     County. His name I have now forgotten, but the man was evidently a student and a
                    thinker, as well as a skillful mechanic. The proof of this was the numerous ingenious contrivances
                    that cluttered up his workshop. One was a novelty in the form of a table with certain parts movable
                    so that one sitting at it could bring within reach of his hand whatever was on any part of it.
                    Another was a washing machine, which he was then working on with the intention of showing it at the
                    next Indiana State Fair. I have often wondered what became of this man and if any of his creations
                    were successes.
            As one of the few definite objects of my trip was to hunt up the "gold region," I
                    enquired my way to the likeliest place to satisfy my curiosity on that point. This turned me in the
                    direction of Bear Creek, which flows through the west part of the County. I brought up at
                    Richard's Postoffice, which was, I believe, about where Trevlac now stands. Bear Creek, I
                    was told, ranked as the best gold-bearing stream in the County. With every freshet the tiny flecks
                    of yellow mixed with black sand would be washed down the Creek and lodged in the hollows or cracks
                    of the bed rock. For more than a generation, men had been prospecting up and down that creek with
                    their pans, washing for gold. An expert could count on making ordinary wages at the business, and,
                    as the lure of bigger returns was ever before the gold-seeker, not a few followed the business of
                    panning for the precious metal in preference to that more ordinary form of exercise known as work.
            Richard's Postoffice took its name from a pioneer, old Johnny Richards, who had lived there
                    since 1830, and who now, as he expressed it, owned more fine scenery than any other man in Indiana,
                    his holdings amounting to upwards of a thousand acres of hills and hollows with small valleys. I
                    spent a night at his house and was entertained in good old country fashion. There was good eating to
                    surfeit which was supplemented by many reminiscences. One story was to the effect that, soon after
                    accounts of gold in 
                        Brown
                     County began to spread, a group from 
                        Indianapolis
                    , hot on the scent of wealth, leased of Richards a stretch of Bear Creek and constructed
                    a  long flume of picked oak timber for gold washing. Just as they
                    completed it, however, one of the typical hill freshets came along and carried the whole structure
                    away. What became of the "syndicate" of gold miners, Johnny Richards never
                    learned.
            Richard's home, I found, housed a vanishing art—that of the pioneer hand-loom,
                    and an artist-weaver, of a type that was then growing scarce, in the person of old Mrs. Richards.
                    The big loom, with its piece of unfinished fabric, stood in a little room adjoining the kitchen and
                    the weaver worked at it zealously whenever able to get away from her domestic duties. When she saw
                    that I was interested in her handiwork, she proudly showed me the wealth of products that she had
                    accumulated—counterpanes, table covers and what not, including genuine linsey-woolsey
                    cloth, out of which she still made her husband's clothes. Of the garments that he had worn
                    in past years, she had thriftily manufactured patchwork quilts, also artistically fashioned as to
                    colors and needlework. She was innocent of the knowledge that she was a natural artist and a
                    faithful exponent of that first art in our state which has never been credited as it deserves.
            I might tell other interesting experiences among these na'ive and friendly hill folk as they
                    were fifty years ago before they knew so much about visiting tourists. There was the goldsmith at
                    Georgetown who manufactured frames for spectacles, furnishing a market for the 
                        Brown
                     County gold, but his name I have forgotten. Also, there was Dr. A. J. Ralphy of
                    Belleville, a country practitioner. On the side he was a naturalist, taxidermist, collector and
                    all-round scientist. His office looked like an aviary with its hundred or more 
                        Brown
                     County birds, all of his own mounting. He also had a cabinet of insects indigenous to
                    the region, and quite a surprising collection of precious stones—small, but genuine, such
                    as opals, garnets, rubies and one diamond. All of them, he told me, had been gathered from the creek
                    beds of the County. He seemed delighted to have a visitor who was interested in his hobbies and we
                    spent a cordial and animated hour together, parting, finally, with the reluctance of old friends.
            I made a note at the time in regard to the last meal I ate before crossing the county-line on my way
                    homeward. The  bill of fare as I recorded it follows:
                    "Ham and eggs, beans, bread, potatoes, peach-butter, two kinds of jelly, peaches and cream,
                    cake, pie, coffee and milk." The price was twenty-five cents.
         
         
         
            A Goddess of Liberty
            SARAH S. PRATT
            
            Hearken, ye women of America! Has any of you ever been a Goddess of Liberty? I am
                    planning to organize a society of Goddesses of Liberty, and then another, "Daughters of
                    Goddesses of Liberty," "D. G. L." The first clause of the constitution on
                    which I am now working provides that only those shall be eligible who have been Goddesses or whose
                    blood relations have been Goddesses—no in-laws will be allowed to join. Our country needs
                    now another society with dues, a president, and gavel.
            The translation of a commonplace little Hoosier schoolgirl into a Goddess came about something like
                    this. When the late Admiral George Dewey was in the sixth grade, or thereabouts, with Manila Bay
                    undreamed of, his uncle, Joel Dewey was an active citizen in the small Indiana village of Delphi in 
                        Carroll
                     County. He was planning what was to be a most sensational Republican (then "
                        Union
                     party") rally. These Deweys were of a strong-brained breed with strong
                    names—George, Joel, Noah, Jerusha—not an Algernon or Lucile among them.
            This rally was to close the second 
                        Lincoln
                     presidential campaign in the County. It was to be held early in October. Joel Dewey was
                    born a chairman. He had filled every station where there was a chair to be occupied by a presiding
                    officer from his infancy. This great rally was to be the peak of many brilliant chairmanships. Joel
                    had a good committee, but the members were not enthusiastic enough. "Go ahead, Joel, do
                    anything you want—we'll get the money." An editor, a banker, the
                    Methodist minister, and a merchant made up this committee. The members approved the
                    chairman's plans at the very first meeting. But the minister was reading Uncle
                    Tom's Cabin, the editor read Horace Greeley, and the other two played checkers every night
                    after they had put on their comfortable double-gowns and slippers. Even Joel's charge that
                    they lacked patriotism could not lure them to the stuffy back room of his general store.
            Already his plans, approved by the Committee, had been printed in large type and blazoned forth from
                    fence-posts, telegraph poles and on the sides of big barns. These advertisemerits  stated the wonders of the rally to be held at one o'clock in
                    the Court-House yard. Governor Morton had been invited to grace the occasion and might even appear.
                    Farmers were urged to bring their families and their dinners, the latter to be eaten under the trees
                    in the Court-house yard, where free coffee was to be served. Joel's activities were always
                    marked by a generous hospitality.
            The Weekly Journal described this red, white and blue day soon to arrive in several
                    columns of superlative language: 
                        Processions of school children who are already drilling with flags—monster
                            bonfires—already merchants are collecting their big pine boxes which make such
                            crackling, leaping flames—Drum corps—Lathrop's
                            Band—Township delegations assigned to proper places—Citizens in
                            carriages and on foot—our patriotic farm citizens. Every patriotic citizen on the
                            line of march is urged to have all the windows illuminated with candles—one in
                            every pane.
                     Probably every window in every residence had exactly twelve panes of glass, so canny
                    grocerymen were laying in supplies of red and white candles; blue ones were not made then. At night,
                    too, there would be Roman candles and sky rockets.
            An arch was placed over Main Street at a corner of the Court-house yard, under which the procession
                    would pass. This arch, trimmed with evergreen, was surmounted by a large picture of 
                        Lincoln
                     which was also encircled with greenery. On each side of the arch was a small platform.
                    The purpose to be served by these was not known, but it was the general opinion that Joel Dewey
                    would have something there.
            Of course, all these glories had been seen at former rallies. Chairman Dewey therefore cogitated
                    silently at home and aloud on the street. "We have just got to have something different
                    this time," he said to himself again and again. Whether he fasted or prayed, or how
                    inspiration came, is not known, but two days before the rally, set for October 6, 1864, Mr. Dewey
                    came to our home very early, ringing the old tinkling door-bell with a vigorous clang. Feeling that
                    something unusual was going on, I decided to postpone going to school for a while in order to listen
                    outside. Joel closed the door and spoke in a low tone, but with a voice perfectly audable to the
                    key-hole listener.
            "Mrs. Smith," he said, "I've got a splendid idea for the rally.
                    What do you think of a Goddess of Liberty?"
            "It's fine, but there's no time."
            
            "There's time if you'll help."
            "Of course I will, but how?"
            I could now hear the Chairman walking the floor.
            "I want your daughter Sally for the Goddess and I want you to make her costume."
            My mother laughed: "Why, Mr. Dewey, that slim little thing as a Goddess would be ridiculous.
                    Ask Belle Burr or
                    some______."
            "They couldn't get ready. Sally will look a lot bigger with draperies and things.
                    You know how to do things and you can get all the stuff at my store."
            "The trouble is to find the costume," explained my mother, "but I think
                    our big Webster's Dictionary will show a goddess—it has everything."
                    When the listener stole away, the dictionary was lying open at a small figure of a goddess.
            On the way home from school I was greeted with the surprising news, that I, Sally Smith, was going to
                    be the Goddess of Liberty in the rally. My Mother glowingly described how I would look on a pedestal
                    drawn by four white horses and patriotism flared.
            Two days of exciting pleasure followed. I remained away from school to be fitted. For the costume,
                    there were delicate fairy-like fabrics heaped on the sewing table—nainsook, mozambique,
                    mull, organdy—whatever it was, Joel had been lavish.
            A pair of white clocked stockings hung over a chair. These were made of what was then called
                    sea-island cotton, now sometimes known as Philippine, I believe. Red, white and blue strips of
                    ribbon for the Liberty shield were being overcast by my Grandmother. By the evening before the
                    rally, the costume was complete and the family came upstairs to see the rehearsal. Fat Nora panted
                    up the back stairs carefully holding the gown which she had just pressed. The sandals, made from old
                    congress gaiters and then covered with white, lay on the table. My father picked up one on the tip
                    of his little finger and held it out admiringly, saying to my Mother: "Catharine, you can
                    do anything with a needle."
            One of my brothers was pasting thirty-four small white stars on the blue 
                        Union
                     of the shield, while another was prancing around singing, "Oh the brother of a
                    Goddess am I." Mother put the finishing touches on the Liberty Cap which  was a masterpiece. Then she gave a sigh of satisfaction, and said to my
                    Grandmother, "Now, Mother, you and Nora dress her."
            Never since the day I was born had I been dressed with such care and interest. The fine thin clocked
                    stockings were drawn on carefully, the sandals adjusted, the gown put over the head, my heart
                    beating with fervor at each step. Something the Greeks called a himation arid which Hoosiers call a
                    scarf fell across my shoulders, hiding somewhat my too slender arms and elbows. At last the cap was
                    settled firmly.
            "It must be pretty well down on your head, Sally, it might blow off if there's any
                    wind. That's right now. Go in, Sally." So Sally went in to be greeted with
                    rapturous admiration.
            "Turn round, let's see how the scarf looks."
            "I don't think her hair looks very Goddessy," came from a younger brother.
                    A strange silence fell.
            Father: "It lacks something."
            Nora: "Have her wear a veil."
            Mother: "Oh, a veil would never do with a Liberty cap."
            Brother: "Think of Minerva or Juno with shingled hair."
            Mother spoke quickly: "I know. We will get Belle Straw-bridge to lend us her chignon. I noticed her hair when she was giving Sally a music lesson last Friday. It is
                    exactly the color of Sally's. Frank, you go over and ask her for it."
            Frank: "But suppose Belle wants to go to the Rally. She couldn't go without her chignon."
            Mother: "She has one of those blue veils. She could put it over the back of her
                    hat—I just know she will lend it."
            And Belle did make the loan though it was an act of great unselfishness. The chignon was the fashionable hair mode of young ladies. It was a piece of net covered with
                    small curls. When pinned over the back hair with a ribbon tied on to hide the connecting line, the
                    delicate ringlets played round the temples and ears—a very fetching style. It may be
                    guessed what intense patriotism it showed in Belle to give up her chignon on a day
                    when she would doubtless have been among the citizens to ride in carriages.
            Dressing to be a bride is nothing compared to dressing to be a Goddess. The chignon, borrowed while the owner was still in bed, was sewed firmly to the back of the
                    Liberty cap. The final pats were given as the shrill peal of "The Girl I  Left Behind Me" gave warning of the approach of the car which
                    was to carry the Goddess. A long cooper's wagon swathed with the colors stopped at our
                    door. A bevy of white-clad girls sat on the floor and in the middle was the pedestal for Divinity. A
                    young soldier in uniform approached, saying, "I am to stand behind and support her, Mrs.
                    Smith. I will take care of her."
            "Remember, Sally, don't smile or bow or wave to anyone," warned Mother.
            That October day in 1864 was a mellow one and as the pageant slowly proceeded, it seemed that the
                    whole population was out. The wide, unpaved streets, bordered with their summer crop of dog-fennel,
                    were rough, but the strong arm behand me was a good shock absorber. Up 
                        Franklin
                     Street, across to Main, and on down that street we went. But what are ruts and jostles
                    to a Goddess of Liberty? A most joyful procession that was. The maidens chattered and sang, the
                    horses flaunted flags on their heads. Fifes pealed and drums boomed, while the brass band played
                    "Bonnie Eloise"—a change from the wartime melodies that had been for
                    too long a time so common.
            As we neared the terminus of the line of march, there was a great sound of cheering from
                    farmers' families who had come too late to get into the parades. Every hitching-post around
                    the public square was in use, and anxious patriots were driving about seeking places for their
                    teams.
            The cheers and hurrahs of this bucolic crowd increased as the long line drew near. The throng drew
                    back from the arch to let the procession pass under. Pillars on each side of the arch supported
                    small platforms whose purpose now became apparent. Each one bore a large new clothes basket and in
                    each basket stood a living statue. These statues (one of whom was the Chairman's daughter)
                    were to represent that accumulated virtue to be found solely within the fold of the Republican
                    party. The cheering we had heard was a tribute to these statues as they climbed up the stepladders
                    and into their protecting baskets. The directions, given so quietly that they were heard only by the
                    girls standing in the assigned positions, were: "Fold your arms and don't move or
                    speak. You will only have to stand there a little while till the procession passes."
                    Obedient to instructions, the statues stood rigid with  folded
                    arms till the Chariot of the Goddess drew near when one of them leaned toward the other and
                    exclaimed: "Oh, Anna, don't the girls look lovely?"
            There was loud laughing and hand-clapping from the crowd, ending in cheers. The procession passed
                    under the arch and came to a halt. As we were passing along the streets several women had leaned
                    over gates very loudly exchanging bold remarks about our appearance. Our driver leaned back and
                    whispered: "Don't notice them—they want to get up a fight."
                    One woman seemed to be urging a little boy to say something to us. "Run out and say
                    it," she told him and, with the impetus of a push, the youngster ran into the street and
                    shouted at me: "You ain't nobody but Sally Smith."
            The bevy of maidens stirred slightly while our mentor again warned the Goddess not to move. I knew
                    that small boy spoke the truth. At least I had been the person mentioned that very morning, and I
                    might be again that night, but now I was Joan of Arc, Moll Pitcher, or Julia Ward Howe. I was the
                    Declaration of Independence, the Constitution, and the American Flag. A transcendent glow of
                    patriotism was kindling in my palpitating heart on that eventful day, and I did not smile. As well
                    expect the statue of Liberty that looks out from 
                        New York
                     Harbor to give heed to some childish gibe.
            The whistle of a 
                        Wabash
                     passenger train coming in from the southwest over Deer Creek bridge was the signal, and
                    the fife and drum started, only to be overwhelmed a minute later by the full band and the cheers of
                    the crowd as the speakers stepped off the train. Came then important Marshal Sims, the tassels of
                    his red sash flying as he waved his sword. Citizens on foot were now crowding into the Courthouse
                    yard. Those in carriages who could not find hitching-places, remained as near as possible. School
                    children were everywhere. The triumphal car of the speaker being too wide to pass through the arch
                    paused near it.
            The band played as the speakers and glee club mounted the stand. A great crowd greeted His
                    Excellency, the Governor of Indiana, that day. Veterans in old army overcoats, women nursing babies,
                    women holding little children out of the crowd, boys on fence posts and in trees, every window
                    filled—it was a thrilling sight.
            The celebrities sat toward the front of the platform. The  pitcher
                    of water and two goblets were ready. The male chorus occupied the rear of the stand. Chairman Dewey
                    arose and waved his arms. The crowd gradually quieted. He announced: "Your distinguished
                    fellow citizen, sitting at my right, will address you after a song from the Glee Club. All join in
                    the chorus."
            Finally after a long time of standing full of weary emotion, the Goddess received a message from her
                    mother that she was to come on home and change her clothes. "Mrs. Case will send her
                    carriage for you," the message concluded. The Goddess thought, "I will just stay
                    for this one song."
            The Glee Club rose, Mr. Graham struck his tuning fork and sounded a deep base sonorous DO-O-O. It was echoed by the club, and the singers then broke into song. Abram was no
                    longer calling for volunteers, but they were still singing the first famous war song: 
                        Six hundred thousand is the cry Come listen to the call For Abram says we must have them Or
                            else the Union'll fall. Then surely, boys, we'll onward march To meet the
                            rebel band, Six hundred thousand is the cry Throughout our native land.
                    
            
            After this with patriotic uproar thrilling her, the Goddess was driven home and became Sally Smith
                    again.
            
                    Say I'm weary, say I'm sad Say that health and wealth have missed me Say
                        I'm growing old, but add—
                
            that I was the Goddess of Liberty in the 
                        Lincoln
                     campaign of 1864.
         
         
         
            History Teachers' Forum
            TRAINING FOR CIVIC AND POLITICAL RESPONSIBILITIES
            OKA STANTON FLICK
            
            Any type of training of children or young people for civic and political responsibilities must be
                    based on the psychological and racial realities of our civilization. In other words, we must take
                    these people as they are, possessed of certain points of strength and of weakness, and not attempt
                    to arrange for them a curriculum of citizenship training which presupposes either an idealized
                    personality in the student or the possession by him of characteristics or abilities which he really
                    does not have. If we thus build upon the mental equipment of the student as he is, we should be able
                    to lead him through a course of instruction which really functions in improving his outlook upon
                    civic and political affairs.
            It must be realized at the outset that desirable ends of instruction in civic matters are not
                    fundamentally different from those which are legitimate aims in other social relationships. The man
                    who has a certain civic part to play, if affairs are to run smoothly, is the same who has economic
                    and social relationships. All these contacts are aspects of man's life in groups. They are
                    all aspects of the same thing—organized community life—and not separate and
                    distinct things. Groups are formed to accomplish certain objects which are deemed necessary or at
                    least desirable by individuals. Government is merely one of these groups. It is conceivable that man
                    might go it alone. All that would be biologically necessary, perhaps, is the care of the young
                    during their helpless years by one or both parents. Aside from this, man might satisfy his wants
                    alone—fight his own battles, procure his own food, make his own clothing, tools, and
                    weapons, and worship his god in solitude. That, however, is not how man has done, nor is he doing
                    things that way now. He is a social being, turning constantly to collective methods for the means of
                    satisfying his wants. He bands together to fight his enemies, he works out a system of division of
                    labor to supply himself with food and other needful articles and in divine worship he seeks the
                    comradeship of others who feel the same  religious urges as
                    himself. He uses the group method at every turn to achieve satisfaction of his wants.
            Now in the march of civilization, these fundamental considerations are too often lost sight of. Man
                    has traveled far in his collective arrangements. These forms are artificial excrescences upon the
                    original nature of man. They were not a part of his original mode of life in all probability. The
                    mistake now too often made, therefore, is to forget the origin of these forms and methods of group
                    living and to regard the forms as the starting points of civic instruction instead of teaching them
                    as the flowering of man's experience over centuries of trial and error. Briefly stated,
                    civic instruction should proceed from the needs of man to the means of satisfying those needs, and
                    should not begin with a study of the institutions man has set up. Failure to act upon this principle
                    is the reason for the ineffectiveness of much of our civic instruction. We should teach the need for
                    the political, economic, and social forms which are considered a part of our civilization and
                    through a knowledge of this need develop an appreciation of the social form which has grown up to
                    meet it. Such civic instruction is sure to be effective for it grounds the civic knowledges,
                    attitudes, and appreciations of the student upon the basic requirements of civilized life with which
                    few would ever have a desire to quarrel.
            The first step, therefore, in training for civic and political responsibilities, as well as for
                    economic and social responsibilities, is to teach the basic need of the restriction on liberty or
                    the officer or institution making up our political structure. The traffic lights at the street
                    corner are seen in this way as the means society has adopted to make life safe for people instead of
                    as a tyrannical restriction upon individual liberty imposed by arbitrary authority. Taxes are
                    appreciated under this teaching as the constructive assistance which the members of a group give in
                    order that group purposes may be carried out, and not as sums arbitrarily wrung for unknown purposes
                    from unwilling contributors. Frequently those most loud in the denunciation of high taxes would be
                    the least willing to go back to the days of dirt roads, contaminated water supplies, one-room school
                    houses, and bucket brigades. Frequently also, they know the least about the purposes for which tax
                    money is actually spent.
            
            Teaching the need of social institutions thus gives understanding of their purposes
                    and their place in modern society. This understanding begets respect for them. We
                    cannot have a regard for our laws and political forms unless we understand them and know why they
                    exist. We cannot be good citizens unless we respect our country and its institutions. Anyone can
                    understand needs. Anyone can also understand methods of procedure, at least in their fundamentals,
                    if he knows the needs which prompted the inauguration of the methods. The respect which results
                    arises from the rational character of the development. The hungry man looks for something to eat.
                    There is nothing about that fact to make a social iconoclast. But becloud the connection between the
                    hunger and the satisfaction, between the need and the political form, or neglect consideration of
                    the need, and an institution stands out in the minds of such a person as an instrument of tyranny.
                    This type of situation will breed the social iconoclast.
            Another result of making instruction proceed from need to agency is that there is less condemnation
                    of imperfections. No human institution is perfect or ever has been; but if we make clear to students
                    that the political form which exists now is the product of long development in which for ages man
                    has struggled to make himself more free, more prosperous and more happy, we will engender a new
                    respect in the mind of the student for the political form. He venerates the age-old tree which
                    towers above him, although it may be crooked or decayed in spots. He reveres in like manner the
                    Constitution or other political or economic or social form into which the highest aspirations of
                    mankind have entered and under which the advancement humanity has enjoyed has been in large measure
                    achieved, even though it has imperfections in its structure or operation.
            Out of this understanding and respect, will arise in the mind of any normal person a feeling of responsibility for the detection and elimination of imperfections in the political
                    or social form. From a knowledge that political development has been in the direction of bettering
                    the condition of the individual and that the finest flowering of the genius of our race is in that
                    democracy in which every person has a chance, there comes a feeling that the individual in his
                    social relationships  is not a receiver of the favors of others
                    nor a disinterested onlooker, but a partner in an enterprise. In this feeling each recognizes his
                    responsibility. He sees that this government is a cooperative enterprise. He appreciates that growth
                    requires change, that no institution is the best for all periods to come, no matter how well at some
                    past age it has fulfilled its purpose. Therefore he sees the necessity, and he feels the desire, of
                    participating in the diagnosis and treatment of those imperfections, which, due to the passage of
                    time or to the shortcomings of individuals in authority, have made themselves apparent. His civic
                    responsibility, therefore, arises from his consciousness of membership in his group and of his
                    respect for the efforts of his race to build worthy institutions. He is not deterred by political
                    shortcomings because he sees an underlying purpose. His civic education functions properly because
                    it has given meaning to political life.
            This method of organizing civic teaching is the more necessary now because of the growing complexity
                    of our political institutions. Man's intelligence in the direction of ordering his social
                    life in the interest of the highest well-being is rapidly expanding, but in the growing complexity
                    of the institutions which have resulted from this knowledge there is a challenge to civic teaching.
                    The thread of relationship between complex form and basic needs must be traced by the student while
                    acquiring his education, or, like the hero of the myth, he will be lost in the labyrinth.
         
         
         
            Indiana Historical Society
            CHRISTOPHER B. COLEMAN
            
            A little known episode in the history of the 
                        Miami
                     Indians, the tribe which is as closely identified with this region as any other, was
                    brought to light by a letter to the secretary of the Society from Walter J. Sherman, president of
                    the Historical Society of Northwestern 
                        Ohio
                    , concerning one of the mural paintings in the 
                        Missouri
                     state capitol at 
                        Jefferson
                     City. The painting represents a battle with the 
                        Miami
                     Indians in 
                        Missouri
                     territory which was fought during the War of 1812. Mr. Sherman writes: "It
                    appears that after Wayne's victory in 1794 a band of Miamis numbering 300 warriors
                    established a fort and village on the 
                        Missouri
                     near the present town of 
                        Miami
                    ." In regard to matter bearing on the band of 
                        Miami
                     Indians who migrated to 
                        Missouri
                    , Floyd C. Shoemaker, Secretary of the State Historical Society of 
                        Missouri
                     (
                        Columbia
                    ), calls attention to information found in the following: Original Journals
                        of the Lewis and 
                            Clark
                         Expedition, edited by Reuben Gold Thwaites, VI, Part I, 84; Lewis Houck, History of 
                            Missouri
                        
               , III, 120–123; Louis Pelzer, 
                  
                            Henry
                         Dodge; Draper's notes on Dodge's campaign against the Miamis
                    on the 
                        Missouri
                    ; Little Turtle's famous address, beginning "My Fathers kindled the
                    first fire in 
                        Detroit
                    "; and Joab Spencer, "Missouri's Aboriginal
                    Inhabitants", in 
                  
                            Missouri
                         Historical Review (July, 1909), III, 275–292.
            Having exausted the material available to him, Mr. Sherman has not yet obtained certain desired
                    information, and adds the following: "I wish I knew just when the band left Indiana. If you
                    run across anything on the subject, I wish you would let me know." Possibly some reader of
                    the Indiana Magazine of History can furnish the missing knowledge or indicate
                    where it may be found.
            The next forthcoming Indiana Historical Society Publication is to be a translation
                    of an exceedingly rare little book published in 1837 in Saaz, Bohemia (now Zatec, Czechoslovakia).
                    The body of the book is composed of the letter written by Jacob Schramm, of 
                        Hancock
                     County, to his friends and relatives in 
                        Germany
                    , describing the voyage of Schramm and his family from 
                        Germany
                     to America and the trip to the land  which he had
                    acquired in Indiana. The writer of this interesting letter dwelt on the hardships encountered in
                    getting to this land and those of the first months of residence there. An introduction by the
                    publisher seems to disclose the motive of the publication—a deterrent to immigration to
                    America. Jacob Schramm was a man of parts and education and his letter gives an unusually reliable
                    and interesting account of travel in the 1830's, and of conditions in central Indiana in
                    that early period. Publication is expected during the early summer.
            A recent acquisition of the Smith Library is a set of Maximilian's Travels in
                        the Interior of North America with English text and atlas of eighty-one plates made from
                    the paintings from life by Charles Bodmer and colored by hand. Maximilian's was one of the
                    scientific expeditions and he spent two years (1832–34) in this country, wintering at 
                        New Harmony
                     in 1832–33 and at Fort 
                        Clark
                     in 1833–34. The account of the journey was first published in German in
                    1839–41 and the English translation appeared in 1843. This translation was made readily
                    available some years ago by the Thwaites reprint so that the present interest centers in the atlas.
                    Bodmer, who accompanied the expedition, was not only a capable artist but a patient and interested
                    observer and the forty-nine plates which represent individual Indians and scenes of Indian life have
                    decided ethnological and historical interest. Commemorative of the winter at 
                        New Harmony
                     are three plates, two of which show swamp scenes in the neighborhood. The third is the
                    familiar one in which the town is seen at a little distance through a foreground of trees.
            Sets in which all the eighty-one plates are in full color do not often appear for sale, but one was
                    recently offered in 
                        England
                    . It is this set which the Smith Library was fortunate enough to be able to secure.
         
         
         
            Documents
            POLLOCK COERESPONDENCE
            All of the letters here printed, save one, were written to Charles Pollock of 
                        Montgomery
                     County, 
                        New York
                    , during a period extending from January, 1840, to January, 1860.1
                    Seven of the letters were from a brother, Alexander Pollock, who came to Indiana in 1839. He was at
                    first very unfavorably impressed with conditions in the Hoosier state, and expected to leave at the
                    first opportunity. However, for one reason and another, his stay was prolonged. After several years,
                    he became reconciled to the conditions that surrounded him, married and settled down. His last
                    letter in the collection was written on July 4, 1847, a few months after his marriage.
            Another brother of Charles Pollock, wrote two of the letters. This was James Pollock who migrated to 
                        Michigan
                     and located in the village of 
                        Milford
                    , near which he acquired a farm. One of his letters was written to a sister, Isabel
                    Pollock. A third brother, William Pollock, wrote one letter from 
                        Washington
                     in 1855 while he was employed by a contractor who was completing the wings of the
                    national capitol. The three remaining letters were written by friends. One was from a Dr. L. G.
                    Schwagen who was living and practicing medicine at Denbeigh Place, 
                        Virginia
                    , for a time. Another was from a Mr. John Baird, and a third from a Mr. Thomas B.
                    Fawcett. The last two persons were pioneers who had migrated from 
                        New York
                     to Indiana. They were living near the town of 
                        Wabash
                    .
            [THE LETTERS]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Plain Field
                           
                                    Jan 1st 1840
                                
                        Dear Brother
                        I received your letter Deem 13th You wrote you were all well except mother. I was
                                    sorry she was so sick after we left and glad that 
                              
                                 1 The originals of these letters were kindly furnished
                                            to the Editor by Prof. Richard L. Power of The St. 
                                                Lawrence
                                             University at Canton, 
                                                New York
                                            . Professor Power obtained the correspondence from the Rev.
                                            Emerson Hugh Lalone and his wife Dorothy B. Graff Lalone of Canton. Mrs.
                                            Lalone is a descendant of the Pollock family.
                              
                                 2 This letter was dated at Plainfield, Indiana, but
                                            was mailed at Bellville a few miles west of Plainfield. Both of these post
                                            offices were located on the National Road (Road No. 40, today) in 
                                                Hendricks
                                             County. Charles Pollock and his sister, Isabel Pollock, to whom
                                            the letters were written, lived in or near Amsterdam in 
                                                Montgomery
                                             County, 
                                                New York
                                            . All of the letters which carry the address of Charles Pollock
                                            on the outside (nine of the thirteen) were mailed to Hagamans Mills, 
                                                Montgomery
                                             County, 
                                                New York
                                            . One of the nine, the one written to Miss Isabel Pollock by
                                            James Pollock, carried the address: "Montgomery Co. Town of
                                            Amsterdam Hagamans Mills, N. Y." Amsterdam here evidently refers to
                                            the town (or township) of that name, not just the little city within that
                                            unit. The population of the town (township) of Amsterdam was 4128 in 1850,
                                            and 4557 in 1860. 
                                                Montgomery
                                             County had a population of 81,992 in 1850. There was a decrease
                                            ini the next ten years, the population in 1860 being 30,509. The Mohawk
                                            flows entirely through this long, narrow county, the eastern boundary of
                                            which is about thirty miles above the junction of the Mohawk with the
                                            Hudson.
                           
                                     she was getting better. You wrote that Robert
                                    had stormy weather after he got to York state. The weather here was very fine till
                                    after that. there has been but little rain here all the fall there is 5 in snow on
                                    the ground. we have had some cold weather I left 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     in 20 days and went to Mr. McVay's he lives 17 miles from
                                    there in hendricks county he owns a farm there I expect to stay there All winter you
                                    wanted to know all about the country and the soil it is A level country cut up with
                                    small streams timber is verry heavy Oak hickory beech maple Elm Ash Popular the soil
                                    is generally clay with some parts Sandy gravle and mixed with clay stone is very
                                    scarce chimneys are generally built with clay & brick is cheap but poor corn
                                    is the chief crop it yields about 60 bushels Acre wheat in this part of the country
                                    yields from fifteen to twenty five bushels per Acre oats grows verry well timothy
                                    and clover grow fine the Farmers depends principally on pork & cattle to
                                    make money there is but a poor chance for a farmer to make much without some capital
                                    times are very hard at present Banks have stopped Specie payment the Publick works
                                    have all stopped3 you wrote that William would come out if there
                                    was a good chance for Our business I do not think it a very good place for a
                                    blacksmith as they are to [too] plenty for the bussiness farmers are to [too] poor
                                    generally to support Mechanicks I dont intend to stay in Indiana longer than till
                                    April Mr McVay intends going out to 
                                        Iowa
                                     if he does I shall go with him we shall go on horse back he intends to
                                    purchase land he does not like Indiana we shall make quite a long journey he thinks
                                    of going through 
                                        Iowa
                                     into what is called the flat country we shall not go ahead, very fast
                                    as he will stop and preach a week or two in a place tell William I think I shall
                                    find a better place than this for our bussiness Besides it is very unhealthy in this
                                    state and the inhabitants are not half civilized the roads miserable most of the
                                    roads are but a track through the woods which would bother any Yankey to follow and
                                    almost impossible to get through one half of the year Mr McVay has not received any
                                    letter from Robert if he has gone to 
                                        New York
                                     I wish you would write to him and tell him to write if he has not and
                                    write where I can direct a letter to him let me know that if he can I want him to
                                    send me a check for Seventy five Dollars if he can in March he can send it in a
                                    letter direct to 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     tell James Davidson not to be in a hurry I shall let you know when I
                                    find a place that I think will do to settle in it costs to [too] much to move here
                                    and it is a great deal of hard labor to clear a farm the timber is so heavy tell
                                    William I will let him know next fall where we can commence our business if he will
                                    come out to 
                                        Iowa
                                     I do not know as it would be best to fetch many tools I will write and
                                    let him know when I find a place I do not like this country give my love to father
                                        
                              
                                 3 The country was still in the midst of the long
                                            depression which followed the panic of 1837. The hardest times were in
                                            1840–41, not in 1837. The first suspension of specie payment came
                                            in 1837. There was a partial recovery in 1838 with resumption, but a second
                                            suspension of specie payment came in 1839 which affected most of the banks
                                            outside of New 
                                                England
                                            . Indiana inaugurated an extensive system of public works under
                                            the provisions of the "Mammoth Bill" of 1836. The
                                            construction of this system was only well started when the business boom
                                            collapsed. The stoppage of construction work by the end of 1889, added to
                                            the economic troubles of the people of the state. Conditions in Indiana were
                                            not very different from those prevailing over the entire country.
                           
                                     mother brothers sisters grandmother and all
                                    Enquiring Friends tell them I am well and hope this will find them enjoying the same
                                    blessing
                        
                                    A Pollock to C Pollock
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    March 15th 1840
                                
                        Dear Brother
                        I take this oppertunity to inform you that I am well at present and hope this will
                                    find you enjoying the same Blessing I have received no letter since December I wrote
                                    to you in January and have expected a letter from you for some time and one from
                                    Robert he was to write to McVay but he has received none I am working for him and
                                    shall all summer he is going to 
                                        New York
                                     citty and will be there some time in May and I want you to send me two
                                    hundred dollars by him I wrote to you that I wanted Mr Carter to send me a check I
                                    hope he has not sent it if he is in 
                                        New York
                                     McVay will see him and make some arrangement to get the money from you
                                    to him I intended going to 
                                        Iowa
                                     this spring but gave it up till fall and then I shall go out there and
                                    make a purchase or towards the Eocky Mountains if you send me money by McVay he will
                                    be in 
                                        New York
                                     several weeks he thinks of going to 
                                        Albany
                                     and into 
                                        Dutchess County
                                     when he comes back we will go in company west through 
                                        Illinois
                                        Iowa
                                        Arkansas
                                     and as near the Rocky Mountains as there is any inhabitants times here
                                    in Indiana are verry hard money is not to be had at all and no business of any
                                    consequence going on there is no sale for any thing grain is cheaper than it ever
                                    was before wheat sells from 37½ cts to 50 per bu corn from 16 cts to 25
                                    oats 20 cts to 25 potatoes 20–25 cts per bushel pork sell from 3 to 4
                                    dollars per hundred Eggs from 4 to 5 cents per Dozen the state business [is] in a
                                    bad fix for want of money it has no credit they passed a law this winter to issue
                                    state Treasury Notes to the amount of sufficient to pay contractors of the state
                                    works and passed an act to stay executurs sales Double the time for instance a debt
                                    of 5 $ that could be collected in thirty days now takes 60 days which
                                    make the merchants grumble a great deal the winter has been mild here the first of
                                    this month quite warm a great many cattle has to pick their living out in the woods
                                    now the ground is settled and some have sowed oats write soon and direct your letter
                                    to 
                                        Hendricks
                                     County Danville Postoffice Indiana land here sells at all prices from
                                    4? to 70 and 80 Give my love to all Father Mother Brothers and Sisters and all
                                    Enquiring friends excuse this short mangled mess for it is getting dark.
                        
                                    Alexander Pollock
                                
                        Ps write soon and let me know all that is going on about home.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    July 7th 1840
                                    
                              Indiana State 
                                    Hendricks
                                  Co.
                           
                                
                        Dear Brother
                        I take this oppertunity to inform you that I received your letter with the check on
                                    the corner of it on the 4th inst it did not come as soon as I wished it but perhaps
                                    it is as well Mr McVay Has gone to 
                                        Kentucky
                                     on business he did not go to 
                                        New York
                                     as he intend [ed] for two or three days before he was agoing to start
                                    he fell and hurt his side which  laid him up for
                                    better than a month which [so] disaranged his calculation that he could not go and
                                    be back as soon as he wished I shall not leave here before September from the best
                                    information I can get the south part of 
                                        Missouri
                                     is the best cuntry this side of the Rocky Mountains and the healthiest
                                    the 
                                        Iowa
                                     [country] is verry sickly from all accounts that we get here times are
                                    verry hard yet and money is getting scarce I might say there is none at all
                                    circulating Politicks is all the go here the whigs are wide awake they had a meeting
                                    in June at Tipacanoe of about 50 thousand whigs and 5 thousand Women4 I was at a Whig meeting in Danville on the 4 where was about 2500 men and
                                    600 Women and had 3 stump speeches and free dinner the watch word is log cabin and
                                    hard cider go it Tip and come it Tyler crops look well the Hessian fly has destroyed
                                    a considerable of wheat corn looks verry well the season has been good since it
                                    commenced the spring was cold and wet and made late planting there is no market for
                                    anything at all hardly corn sells for 25 cts Bacon 6½ wheat 50 butter
                                    6¼ A number of Merchants in 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     have shut their doors and stoped trading because they could not sell as
                                    cheap as a great many was obliged to do there is not a farmer in this settlement but
                                    what wants to sell and get out of the state yet they want a good price for their
                                    land mud and clay If I do not get into business this fall I shall come home in the
                                    winter or spring. I shall go on farther West in September and see if there is no
                                    better place than I have seen yet if you have a good chance to loan out the rest of
                                    the money I think you might as well for a year as I think I shall not want it in
                                    that time probably not then I am well and hope these few lines will find you all
                                    enjoying the same blessing give my love to Father and mother Brothers and sisters
                                    Grandmother and all Acquaintances I remain your affectionate Brother
                        
                                    Alexander Pollock
                                
                        Charles Pollock Ps if you write Direct to Danville postoffice 
                                        Hendricks
                                     County You need not unless you have some thing to write or if you are
                                    all well
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Hendricks
                                  Co Ind
                           
                                    May 7th 1841
                                
                        Dear Brother
                        I take this opportunity of letting you know that I am well and hope this will find
                                    you all enjoying the same blessing I received your letter Dated Jan you Informed me
                                    that Mr Carter was in 
                                        New Orleans
                                     and requested me to write to him I did not write until Mr McVay
                                    received a letter from him the first of April I advised him to return to 
                                        New York
                                     if he could but if he could not to come up the river here and satisfy
                                    himself of living in the woods and mud but not to stay here no longer if he wanted
                                    to live any time for it [is] almost sure Death for any one not acclimated to that
                                    [this] country when the sickly [season] sets in I have been looking for a letter
                                    from him but have got none I should have wrote to you before now but Delayed on
                                    account of not getting one 
                              
                                 4 This great rally was held at Battle Ground where
                                            General Harrison's little army fought with the Indians on the
                                            morning of October 6, 1811, The attendance at the Whig rally was large, but
                                            55,000 is quite an exaggeration.
                           
                                     from him you wanted [to know] if I was a coming
                                    back and not go any farther beyond civilization it is what I cannot tell I have been
                                    calculating to go out to the 
                                        Iowa
                                     and into the 
                                        Arkansas
                                     Territory and 
                                        Missouri
                                     but circumstances have prevented so far and I do not know whether I
                                    shall go at all or not I am engaged here this summer I have some notion of going
                                    into 
                                        Kentucky
                                     late in the fall but it will depend on circumstance whether I do or not
                                    as to coming back home I cannot tell anything about when I will come I have got to
                                    be so much of Hoosier that I have given up making any calculations what I shall Do
                                    in time that is to come there is a common complaint among the People here
                                    [—] that is the song of hard times in every ones mouth the Democrats say
                                    it is caused by the Whigs getting the rule the5 it seems to me
                                    the cause is chiefly owing to the Banking System and the extravagance of the People
                                    hogs sell at 2 cts to 2½ cets on foot milk cows from $10 to
                                    $18 corn is from 18 cts to 37½ cts oats from 12½ to
                                    25 potatoes 25 flour $2 per hundred write to me as soon as Mr Carter gets
                                    back if he returns if he comes up here I will write to you please give my love to
                                    all relations
                        
                                    A Pollock to Charles Pollock
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Milford
                                  [
                                    Michigan
                                 ]
                           
                                    May 10th 18416
                           
                                
                        Dear Sister
                        I shall take this opportunity of writing you a few lines for fear you would soon
                                    begin to think that I never would I have just returned from 
                                        Michigan
                                        Center
                                     where I have been for the last five months my health is quite miserable
                                    I have got the auge [ague] and fever it will be useless to say anything about
                                    comeing home I have said so much befor and never got there yet don't know
                                    as I ever will if this cursed ague shakes me round much more the times are about as
                                    hard as usual and no prospect of being better grain is low and will be I was within
                                    fifteen or twenty miles of A J Bell where I was through the winter but did not get
                                    time to go and see him and dont know as I could have found where he lived had I
                                    tried the 
                                        Spring
                                     has been verry backward and cold wheat looks pretty well you must write
                                    about Alexander7 if you have heard from him I shall go to 
                                        Illinois
                                     or 
                                        Iowa
                                     as soon as next fall if not before this State cant hold me a great
                                    while longer I shall come home first probably I must close this few lines by sending
                                    to you all my love and best wishes
                        I remain your affectionate brother
                        
                                    James Pollock
                                
                        Isabela Pollock
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Hendricks
                                  County Ind
                           
                                    Jan 23 1842
                                
                        Dear Brother
                        I take this opportunity to transmit to you a few lines and inform you that I am well
                                    and fondly hope these few lines will find you all enjoying 
                              
                                 5 The writer should have crossed out this word.
                              
                                 6
                                            
                                                Milford
                                             was a town with a population of 1470 in 1850. It is about
                                            thirty-five miles northwest of 
                                                Detroit
                                             in the western part of 
                                                Oakland
                                             County.
                              
                                 7 Alexander Pollock of 
                                                Hendricks
                                             County, Indiana, a brother of James Pollock, the writer of this
                                            letter, and of Isabel Pollock to whom he was writing.
                           
                                     the same inestimable blessing from the last two
                                    letters you wrote it seems that we are deprived of two dear and near relatives
                                    besides some of our best neighbors I wrote to you a short time before I received
                                    your last and did not think it necessary to write again until you wrote again as I
                                    requested in that for you to send me another check for $100 if you could
                                    convenently in time for it to get here by the first of February I expected you would
                                    send it or write and let me know that you could not as it is I feell uneasy not
                                    knowing whether you have sent it or not if you have or have not sent it write and
                                    let me know as soon as you receive this it is probable I shall not leave here before
                                    April or May if I should I can have letters forwarded from here to where I might go
                                    to it appears you all wish me to come home but to be plain I have not at present
                                    [any notion] when or if ever I shall return I still intend if nothing prevents to go
                                    west Mr. McVay is not returned from the west yet the last letter we had from him he
                                    was in the 
                                        Iowa
                                     Ter had been traveling in it for five weeks he says it is a Beautiful
                                    Country and a great surplus of grain this season and a great prospect of being the
                                    greatest grain country he was ever in he states the prices of grain at corn 12 cts
                                    wheat 50 cts pork from one Dollar to two Dollars per hundred good roads and no
                                    Bogmires he was among the Indians says they were verry friendly and have first
                                    quality of land and it is expected they will sell out next July if they do it will
                                    be a great advantage to the Territory Mr Carter wanted to know something about his
                                    land it is here yet just as it was when he saw it and as for selling it at present
                                    without loss is impossible for there is no one will buy land here and pay money
                                    unless he gets it for half value but if times ever gets good as they were a few
                                    years ago it will fetch a good price and tell him not to be uneasy about it the
                                    winter has been warm and no verry cold weather and not any snow hardley and verry
                                    bad traveling owing to mud or when frozen rough the price of corn here is from 16 to
                                    25 cts wheat 75 cts pork $1½ to 2 dollars per hundred Beef 2
                                    and $2.50 per hundred Flour $2.50 per hundred I must now come
                                    to close as I have nothing more of importance to write Give my love to Mother
                                    Brothers and sisters Grandmother and all Acquaintances
                        
                                    Alexander Pollock
                                
                        Charles Pollock NB please to write as soon as you get this if you have not
                                    sent a check do not send it now as it is uncertain whether I shall be here longer
                                    than 3 or four weeks I shall write again at the time I leave here or soon after
                                    Feb 8th since the above was written I received yours Dated Jan 10th in which
                                    you request me to let you [transfer] if I will my right to personal property to
                                    mother and sisters I am perfectly willing and shall try to write a receipt to that
                                    effect in this letter if I do not form it right write me a form and I will write
                                    another and send to you Mr McVay has returned from the 
                                        Iowa
                                     he likes the Country middling well the greatest objections he has to it
                                    is to [too] much 
                                        Prairie
                                     for the Timber and cold Climate  but
                                    not as cold as where you are verry disagreeable on the 
                                        Prairie
                                     when the wind blows Mr McVay intends to move there as soon as the roads
                                    settles in the spring which will be in May he thinks we had better lease Mr Carters
                                    land for a short term on condition that if there should be an opportunity to sell
                                    that by paying for the improvement made the lease shall end he [McVay] will not sell
                                    his untill times mends for it is impossible to get half value now we want Mr Carter
                                    to let us know if he is willing or not to have it so managed we will do the best we
                                    can for him and pay the tax until it can be sold Mr McVay sends best respects to Mr.
                                    Carter and all our family
                                    [Requested receipt]
                            Received of Mary Pollock in full of
                                    all demands for my share of the personal property of George Pollock deceased Given
                                    under my hand this day and date Feb 8th 1842
                                    Alexander Pollock
                            If you have the luck to colect 75 or
                                    100 dollars for me you may send it if in time to get here by the 15th of April if
                                    not do not send it the Amsterdam Bank will do but if you can get A City Bank without
                                    much trouble it would be prefered8
                           
                                    I remain your affectionate Brother A Pollock
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    June 15th 1845
                                
                        Dear Brother
                        I take this opportunity to inform you that I am well at present and hope this will
                                    find you and all our relations and friends enjoying the same Blessing I have been
                                    looking for a long time for a letter from you but have received none since last fall
                                    I got a letter from Mr Carter last March he stated he had got no word from you for a
                                    long time he was well at that time there is nothing of much interest going on here
                                    but the raising of troops for Mexican War there has volunteered from each county
                                    from eighty to one hundred and twenty men through out this state and are collecting
                                    together at New 
                                        Albany
                                     on the 
                                        Ohio
                                     river to be drilled and ready to march to 
                                        Mexico
                                     if they are needed Produce is low wheat selling at 31¼ cts
                                    corn 15 cts oats 15 cts cattle is redy sale at low prices hogs gross 2 Dollars to
                                    2¼ per hundred Bacon from 3 to 4 cts I have; nothing more at this time to
                                    write but shall wait for an answer to this from you Please to write as soon as this
                                    comes to hand let me know if William9 went [to] 
                                        Virginia
                                     and if he did how he liked the country and how you are all getting
                                    along
                        
                                    Alexander Pollock to Charles Pollock
                                
                        PS Please excuse this short scrooll and as soon as I get an answer I will write
                                    a longer letter Direct your letter to Hendricks Co. Brownsburg P. O.
                                Indiana
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  8 This added paragraph was written vertically along the left side of the
                        page, in the vacant space below that used for the receipt.
               
                  9 William Pollock was a brother of Alexander, James, Isabel, and Charles
                        Pollock.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Denbeigh Place Fairfax Co 
                                    Va.
                                 
                              
                           
                                    May 9th 184710
                           
                                
                        Dear Sir
                        Having an opportunity of sending directly to you, I with pleasure Embrace it, and am
                                    happy to be enabled to say to you that my health was never better than at present my
                                    health has been gradually improving since my first visit south and I am bound to
                                    believe that there are hundreds yea thousands of persons at the north annually
                                    falling victims to the severity of those chilling blasts who were they to enjoy the
                                    mild and bland atmosphere of the South would have tolerable good health even to old
                                    age, and when I reflect upon the change evidently wrought in my physical
                                    constitution I cannot but be surprised that thousands do not avail themselves of the
                                    blessing of health which may be attained in many cases (if not in mine) at a
                                    trifling, if any, sacrifice and so important do I consider it that aside from self
                                    gratification I could wish that my particular friends could be made sensible of the
                                    benefits derived by way of supporting a frail and perhaps crushed constitution, but
                                    enough of this. you would probably like to know the contrast in your climate and
                                    this with regard to weather. well the season is this year unusually late. vegetation
                                    is backward. we have had a late, cold, dry, spring and many persons have not planted
                                    their corn. you will learn by John that our prospects for fruit were flattering in
                                    the extreme untill your northerners sent us that hard frost which in one fatal night
                                    destroyed every hope of peach and prune. I think you must still have some snow and
                                    ice with you. I yesterday saw one of the many who are coming from your state to view
                                    land, who told me that two weeks ago at Madison Co. N. Y. there was much snow and
                                    that farmers had not commenced ploughing. There is perhaps a greater tide of
                                    immigration flowing here at present from the north than has been known Any year
                                    previous. and still there is room, and I know of more than a few excellent bargains,
                                    some one of which you might consider yourself fortunate in securing. With regard to
                                    my professional business you will be informed that although there is no prevailing
                                    sickness, my business, by reason of my location is very good. Much better even than
                                    I had reason to suppose it could be and my health and strength seem to be in
                                    proportion to the exigencies of the undertaking I mostly ride on horse-back and
                                    usually every day and the rout being extensive is often arduous. I did not for many
                                    reasons commence business much before Janry and since that time have been quite
                                    engaged. as the neglected condition of my garden plainly shows. You will learn by
                                        John11 that I last fall took another lesson in my long
                                    chapter of misfortunes. but I thank God that I am enabled to not only bear the
                                    frowns of dame fortune but can do so with a tolerable degree of composure. tuning my
                                    pipes and pleasing myself with the scotch adage
                                    "Johnny-o-band-and-you" which in plain English simply is (as I was
                                    taught) "A clear conscience." You will learn my prospects from
                                    John, as I do not care to speak of them myself, there are those 
                              
                                 10
                                            
                                                Fairfax County
                                             lies across the Potomac from the District of 
                                                Columbia
                                            . This letter from 
                                                Virginia
                                            , like the one below from Georgetown, D. C., has no relation to
                                            the letters from Indiana and 
                                                Michigan
                                            . The two letters are published with the others in the series
                                            because they contain matter which should be of interest to some of our
                                            readers.
                              
                                 11 John Pollock, another of the brothers of Charles
                                            Pollock.
                           
                                     who would gladly take an interest in my
                                    where-abouts as well as how-abouts (Excuse the word) for the
                                    purpose of rejoicing at my prosperity and mourning at my adversity and there are
                                    those who would feel the reverse. How I thank my friends for their sympathy and my
                                    stars for the ineffectual shafts of my enemies. Your accustomed generosity will I
                                    trust excuse me for my long silence expecially as I have incurred no obligation by
                                    the receipt of a letter or letters from you, but that really did not deter me from
                                    writing. neither did any one thing but a general mass of all things has during this
                                    winter prevented my usual extensive correspondence with my friends. I have received
                                    some seventy letters since my arrival here. and my otherwise idle moments have been
                                    employed in answering them and I should not be accused (under all the circumstances)
                                    of neglect to friends. I would gladly hear from you and yours and hope you are
                                    enjoying a full share of prosperity and happiness. I often send my wandering
                                    thoughts to join you in your family circle where I have had many a pleasant and
                                    social chat and can assure you that their reality has not been among the least of my
                                    former enjoyments but those days are past, and with them all the cares and
                                    perplexities with which they are usually accompanied. But away with soliloquising
                                    and 
                                        "Since we are here with friends so dear Lett's drive dull
                                            cares away".
                                     My arrangements upon leaving your state were to return perhaps in the month
                                    of May or June but finding it difficult to leave my business and thinking I may
                                    require rest and change of Climate during the warmest weather I have concluded to
                                    defer my return to a later period, but without any definite time. I shall probably
                                    stay North some 4 or 5 weeks and anticipate a first rate visit with you and others
                                    of my friends in that vicinity. I need not tell you as you will be informed by John
                                    that Wm and his family enjoy uninterrupted health and are satisfied with their
                                    change. Esther is cheerful and as neat as ever and Mary is as pretty as a doll as
                                    sweet as a rose, and as talkative as a Parrot. I enjoy her society much. And now to
                                    business. When we parted in Schenectody you thought you could induce McCormick to
                                    take some notes which you held. I hope you was successfull in that or that you
                                    received the money on the notes as my last fall's misfortune renders an
                                    adjustment of that kind more desirable than before. My available
                                    means were previously limited and a loss of a few hundred of dollars causes me to
                                    feel sensibly the want of money. the expense attending the recovery of my remnant of
                                    property prevented the possibility of discharging any obligations to Wm until I
                                    receive money which I have vainly looked for from the North. Tis true I have been
                                    much engaged in business but have received little or no remuneration. I still hope
                                    to receive money from the north but fear a further delay. you will do me a great
                                    favour if you can arrange the McCormick affair with those notes before I go north.
                                    Perhaps Mr. Young has done something in the matter he wrote me that he confidently
                                    hoped to do so he has abundant means in his hands for that use or any other though I
                                    know not that I am otherwise indebted in that northern region with the exception of
                                    our obligation  which has in my honest opinion
                                    been liquidated many times over and so believing shall endeavour to avoid further
                                    trouble about it. You will find enclosed an old note by Reuben 
                                        Hammond
                                     and but for a small endorsement which I received would now have been
                                    dead (which by the bye would be much the same) If you happen to come in contact with
                                    Reub. please coax him to give a new note there is or soon will be due
                                    $14. get his note for any amount below that and sell the note for some
                                    old gun without a lock. Swap the gun for a red or yellow dog. kill the dog and use
                                    his tallow for soap grease and his flesh & bones will manure ½
                                    dozen hills of potatoes if you can afford it give me one of the potatoes roasted and give the remainder to some hungry hog—and
                                    since my sheet is full, please accept of my thanks for your indulgence with this
                                    long yarn and accept of my respects and best wishes
                        
                                    L. G. Schwagen
                                
                        Chs Pollock P. S. you will please write me very soon.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Hendricks
                                  Co Ind
                           
                                    July 4th 1847
                                
                        Dear Brother
                        I take this opportunity to inform you that I am well at this time and hope this will
                                    find you all enjoying the same Blessing I received your third letter a few days ago
                                    you wanted to know if I was a coming back I do not expect I shall come back for a
                                    year or two yet and I have no expectation at present of coming to stay I never had
                                    any notion of going to 
                                        Mexico
                                     to stain my hands with innocent Blood although there is a great many
                                    here that are strong advocates for the war and will abuse a man that gives his
                                    sentiments that the war is unjust the Volunteers that went from this county last
                                    year have just returned there was an effort made this spring to raise a company here
                                    but failed last fall I took a journey through a part of 
                                        Illinois
                                     and 
                                        Iowa
                                     and viewed the country along Desmoine River in 
                                        Iowa
                                     a distance nearly two hundred miles from the mouth at the Missippy it
                                    being the brag part of 
                                        Iowa
                                     there is some verry good land there and some verry indifferent and a
                                    great deal of sickness and almost universal dissatisfaction of the inhabitants
                                    watter is generally scarce and of a bad quality in the 
                                        Illinois
                                     there is about as Bad watter and a greater portion of waste and
                                    Indifferent land than in 
                                        Iowa
                                     But if a man could get a choice farm in either he could be well
                                    situated But it would cost more than many would be willing to give and [a] third
                                    rate farm I would hardly take as a gift to live on Times are getting pretty Brisk
                                    here and every kind of produce is selling at a fair price to what it has Been. But
                                    grain varies in price materially in consequence of the difference in Distance from
                                    market at 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     wheat is 65 cts per Bu at the Railroad Depot 30 miles [away] it sells
                                    at from 87½ cts to $1.00 corn at 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     is worth 25 cts at the Depot 45 cts12 Bacon is
                                    worth from 5½ to 6¼ cts Hogs live 3 cts young cattle is worth
                                    3 cts on foot milch cows and 
                              
                                 12 Supplies of wheat and corn must have been
                                            practically exhausted in 
                                                Hendricks
                                             County at the time when this letter was written. Otherwise the
                                            prices at 
                                                Indianapolis
                                             would have been higher instead of lower than at the local
                                            stations.
                           
                                     calf $10.00 horses is from
                                    $50 to $80 crops is only tolerable wheat is a good deal
                                    injured by the winter and fly oats look well corn is small for the time of year and
                                    wet land corn is hurt verry much by the heavy rains I have not heard anything from
                                    Mr Carter since last fall he was then in Orleans in middling health I have not had a
                                    convenient opportunity to sign that deed you sent and I had it in contemplation to
                                    come home this fall untill a short time since I find that I cannot well come before
                                    a year from next fall if you have a chance of selling before I should come write and
                                    I will send you the deed I wish you would send me that note of Mr Carters I am
                                    getting nearly out of patience waiting on him for the money and if he does not do
                                    something soon I think I had better make myself safe with his land Write soon and
                                    let me know how much money I have coming and when you think you could send it to me
                                    But do not send it until I write I will now inform you that I took a rib [wife] last
                                    April and have been keeping house since the first of may and working at my trade I
                                    have a middling good stand [blacksmith shop] for 1 fire a part of the year I have as
                                    much as 3 can do or rather more and a part there is not a great deal to do I will
                                    not ask to be excused for not writing long before now it was just neglect and
                                    carelessness But I will promise to do better for the future Give my love to
                                    Grandmother and Brothers and Sisters and all Enquiring friends and receive the same
                                    yourself. My wife Elizabeth [sends] her love and Best respects to you all
                        P. S. write as soon as you can conveniently and let me know if you have heard any
                                    from Mr Carter
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Milford
                                  [
                                    Michigan
                                 ]
                           
                                    Dec 12th 1847
                                
                        Dear Brother
                        I take this opportunity of once more addressing a few lines to you hoping that you
                                    will overlook this long silence I have not herd from any of you since Isabel wrote
                                    and that is so long ago I have entirely forgot when it was I was in hopes that you
                                    would have continued to write notwithstanding my silence as it is quite a job for me
                                    to write and seldom have opportunity I still remain in 
                                        Milford
                                     instead of going to my farm as intended last spring the wheat crop
                                    looked so unfavorable last spring was the reason and it was almost a total failure
                                    in this section which makes rather hard times and the comeing crop looks pretty hard
                                    the insects have pretty much destroyed the early sowed spring crops abundant corn
                                    rye prices pretty low at present flour $4½ 
                                        Detroit
                                    . wheat 75 cts here corn 31 cts rye 37½ cts pork
                                    $2.75 to $3.25 The village here is growing pretty rapid a
                                    large gristmill has been erected at a cost of about twelve thousand dollars and
                                    there is twelve stores besides grogshops and taverns and two carding and cloth
                                    dressing factories and two furnaces and a good country around about and all that
                                    sort of thing besides the fever and ague which they have here at pleasure and
                                    sometimes without the last season has been more healthy than common the weather has
                                    been remarkeabel fine warm and dry here this fall and on the whole a pretty good
                                    country and I think you had better come out and look for yourself and look up a
                                    location and leave the Swamp which is  good for
                                    nothing now nor never was nor never will be I should like to know if you have heard
                                    from Alexander lately and what he is about and William and John and all the rest of
                                    our folks well I dont know as I have any thing more to say in particular and after
                                    all it seems to me that you might find time to take a run out here next Summer you
                                    and Isabel I should be very happy to see you dat is de fac I shall expect to hear
                                    from you verry soon and what Elias is about and should like verry much to have him
                                    write to me and all that sort of thing
                        I must close by sending my love and best wishes to Grandmother Isabel and all the
                                    rest of you &c write soon
                        
                                    James Pollock
                                
                        to Charles Pollock
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Georgetown [D. C.]
                           
                                    July 9th 1855
                                
                        Dear Brother and Sister
                        Wee [sic] received your letter on the 7th and was glad to hear that
                                    you are all well wee also enjoying good health at the present time Brother John is
                                    also in good health I see him every few days I have ben at work at the capitol for
                                    the last month for the Government on the extension of the Capitol wee are working on
                                    the roof at present which is built of iron princepley of wrought iron and is a heavy
                                    structure the rafters are the same shape as a Trail but not so heavey it takes two
                                    of them for one rafter spliced to gether by riviting a bar on each side over the
                                    joint there is an emence [immense] deal of Drilling the bolts are all turned and the
                                    screws cut by machinery their is two roofs to build one to each wing of the capitol
                                    the irons to one roof are about half completed. there is now about 20 fires in
                                    opperation in the smiths shop I expect one roof will be put on the coming fall the
                                    outside covering will be copper their is a new dome to be built allso which will be
                                    iron it will probably be 2 or 3 years before the whole is compleeted the wages are
                                    pretty good $2.00 per day the boss Blacksmith is a very clever man and a
                                    Know Nothing which hurts the feelings of the Adminesteration considerable they have
                                    tried their utmost to have him removed but they cant on account of not having the
                                    control of the head man Capt Megs hoo [who] I Believe is appointed by Congress their
                                    has ben some 20 removeals the first of this month of clerks mesengers &
                                    poliece for political reasons every dog has his day and I think the present
                                    Administrations are numbred and recorded the court is in cesion here at present and
                                    the grand jury have ben envestigting the case of brakeing the stone sent to the 
                                        Washington
                                     Monument by the Pope and have found four ore five bills against certin
                                    individuals and I recon that is all that they will find respecting the matter K N
                                    are to numera [numerous] here to have anybody convicted of the above offence much
                                    less imprisoned13 Margaret speeks of my having had an invitation
                                    to returne to Amsterdam [N. Y.] this is the first intimation I have had of the fact
                                    I should like to have the matter explained although it is not 
                              
                                 13 The Know Nothing organization was born to carry on
                                            a crusade against the influence of the rapidly increasing foreign-born
                                            element in the population. The members were usually anti-Catholic.
                           
                                     very likley that I shall returne to Amsterdam at
                                    present unless the inducement is greate I think I will stick to Uncel Sam a spell
                                    longer the weather is cool and pleasant at present it has been very warm and rany
                                    the crops look well vegatebels are plenty in market and the price reasonable wee
                                    have had cabage for the last month fruit is plenty and verey fine strawberies are
                                    all gone long ago and cheries will soon be gon Black Beries are getting plenty also
                                    apples their have ben a few peaches in market brought from further South New
                                    potatoes are getting plenty their will probably be a good crop this season tell N.
                                    Palmateer that if Lee wants to see 
                                        Virginia
                                     he should come now when he was theare their was nothing to be seen but
                                    rain and mud but I recon that he will do like Lawson buy the poorest farm in
                                        Amsterdam14 what has become [of] Aunt Lucy and Elias and the
                                    fence is it in the road yet have Almond and Abram ben home this summer and whare is
                                    Jeremiah has that lasy dog got my gun fixed yet if he has not tell him that I will
                                    thrash him when I get hold of him how are Chases folks getting along what will the
                                    old man doo when he cant get no hard ware what has become of 
                                        Clark
                                     what has become of Dr Sprague I think he must be dead or mad I answered
                                    his letter but have not head from him cince wee should like to know what ails Merrys
                                    thumb that it dont get well Mary Margaret15 has got to be quite
                                    a large girl she had the measels this spring and was quite sick for a few days but
                                    has ben quite well cince and has ben to scool till the first of this month it is a
                                    vacation till the first of September I will enclose a spesemine of her writing she
                                    antisipates writing to her Aunt Margaret soon I. shall have to make the same excuse
                                    for not writing soner that John does when I ask him why he dont write he says that
                                    he has not anything to write about but I think that I have made quite a long letter
                                    out of a little material tell Grandmother that wee should like to see her and would
                                    do so if it was not quite so far and Isabl also as well as all the rest of you give
                                    our love to all the folks and write soon
                        
                                    Your Brother and Sister
                                    Wm Pollock
                                
                        P. S. the fourth pased of quietley here the Anties16 tried
                                    to have a little celebration but it did not amount to much the Americans celebrated
                                    out in the grove tell Mother that wee will write to her soon and she must write and
                                    not wait for us Esther wants to know what Sister Jane has whether a son or a
                                    daughter wee are glad that Margaret has got Mrs Wilds with her give her our love
                                        Esthe[r]17 wants Margaret18 when she
                                    writs to tell what the folks are all about whoo is maried and who is buried
                                    &c. wee should like to have you all come and make us a visit and see the
                                    sights in 
                                        Washington
                                    
                           
                                    W. P.
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  14 Evidently Amsterdam Township is meant.
               
                  15 Mary Margaret was a daughter of the writer.
               
                  16 Opponents of the Know Nothings ("Americans").
               
                  17 Esther was William's wife.
               
                  18 Margaret was the wife of Charles Pollock who had probably not been
                        married long, since earlier letters do not indicate the existence of a wife while they
                        frequently mention a sister, Isabel.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        C Pollock
                        M JP
                        Dear Aunt Margaret and uncel Charles I send my love to you and grand Ma and grand Pa
                                    write soon Mary M. Pollock I send a kiss to you all19
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Wabash
                                  Ind
                           
                                    April 22 1859
                                
                        Mr C Pollock Esq
                        Dear Sir
                        I recd a paper from you yesterday and was glad for so much we are well and hope this
                                    will find you all the same we finished sowing our oats yesterday and to day it rains
                                    again and we are laid up for the rest of the week we have not plowed much for corn
                                    yet we intend to put in from 30 to 40 acres of corn the spring is backward cold and
                                    wet and it will make it late for the farmers again in this part and things are high
                                    oats 75 to 80 and corn the same or wors from 80 to 1 dollar potas [potatoes] a
                                    dollar most all the farmers are out and have to buy from the Warehouse20 Merch[ant] and I with the rest have got hard up and would like if you
                                    could get 
                                        Jackson
                                     to pay up you might get a draft for it & a Chryteance [?] and
                                    send it as soon as it is convenient for you so do do it is tight times hear for
                                    money in buying a team and mooeving T. B. F. it has drawen hard on my puree (it is
                                    allways light) there will be a bout 19 months intrest on them [the notes] and that
                                    amount will carry me through till I can get some again let me know what you can do
                                    as soon as you get this if you can not get that of 
                                        Jackson
                                     it may be you had better take that out of the Bank I would rather not
                                    though at all events write soon and let me know what is what
                        
                                    Your truly
                                    John Baird
                                
                         Mr C Pollock I have sent the 
                                        Wabash
                                     paper to J Brown and you will see by that how things go on hear it will
                                    come reglure every wek now how is the children I have not heard from them since in
                                    March You must be awfull busy in Amsterdam that you cannot let a fellow know how you
                                    get a long once in a good while Tom has the blues some I guess do not know though
                                    don say much
                                    good by yours
                           
                                    J. B
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Wabash
                                 
                              
                           
                                    7th January 1860
                                
                        Mr C Pollock
                        Dear Sir
                        I am in debt to you a letter & have been so for (I suppose) 6 months if not
                                    more. however if I have been negligent I must do the next best 
                              
                                 19 The writer of this supplementary note was the
                                            daughter, Mary Margaret Pollock, mentioned above. The little girl's
                                            message is written in a small very plain hand at the bottom of her
                                            father's letter in ruled spaces.
                              
                                 20 "Warehouse" was then and for a
                                            long time after a common name for a building where grain was bought and
                                            stored for shipment. A change in the method of handling grain caused the
                                            name "elevator" to replace the term
                                            "warehouse" for buildings used in the local grain
                                        trade.
                           
                                     thing to not writing 6 mos ago (write now) I
                                    cannot plead that I have been so busy for the Ague gave me time enough. I continue
                                    to have a chill every 2 or 3 weeks but I am in hopes that I have pretty near served
                                    my term to the Business I took it the first week in August and have had it ever
                                    since with intervals of 2 and sometimes 3 weeks to rest and recruit myself, We have
                                    had good sleighing here for nearly a month, but we are having a thaw now and I am
                                    afraid will loose our "good going"
                        Business seems to be pretty stirring in Town in the Hog & Corn departments
                                    especially 4½ to 5 for dressed hogs or 40 for corn in the Ear &
                                    43 "shell'd" oats 30, wheat white
                                    $1.12, red do "1.05 Flour $5.25 potatoes 20 to 25 Hay
                                    $10, Timothy seed $1.25 Clover $4.00, Cord wood21 from $1.50 to $2.00 such are about the
                                    range of prices in 
                                        Wabash
                                    
                        
                        Wood Teams are going here pretty near as thick as J Banta used to have them although
                                    wood is so cheap they can get it cut for 50 cents and less Spelling schools seem to
                                    be the order of the day if they would let the rowdying22
                                    spelling schools alone & apply their influence to keeping up a day school I
                                    think they would be doing "an unbounded" service to the rising
                                    generation, but they think if they keep 3 months in winter they are doing something
                                    great. The Hoosiers are a good plain kind & obliging set of people so far as
                                    I have had to do with them, but on the subject of schools the majority of them dont
                                    seem to think it is of much use to educate their children a great deal, some wanted
                                    4 mos school this winter but the majority voted them down The Teacher is a Farmer in
                                    the district he is I believe pretty good in Arithmetic can teach reading writing
                                    & Geography & dont know anything of Grammar for which [teaching
                                    service] he receives the sum of $25 per month, paid from public funds as
                                    far as they go, and if a few of the inhabitants want a summer school they have to
                                    hire a teacher at their own expense "so much for Indiana" If they
                                    were obliged to keep 6 months school it would be a good deal better for the state,
                                    but I suppose it would be hard arguing to make them think so.
                        There are some wild Turkeys around here Mr Baird has shot one, but they are pretty
                                    wild and there is no getting near them. there is considerable to shoot at such as
                                    Squirrels Rabbits & Turkeys but I scarcely ever go & wage war
                                    against them. Will & Uncle John go sometimes, Uncle John is anxious to hear
                                    from the children he has not heard from them in a long time and he is getting uneasy
                                    if you can see Jim Brown tell him to start a few lines to him. I intended to write
                                    Jim but when I came to look I find that before I can do so I must first go to Town
                                    & get some paper. We are clearing up some corners on the place &
                                    making the place look a little more square The Hoosiers are great 
                              
                                 21 Cordwood waa four feet in length. The prices
                                            mentioned were for a rick four feet high and eight feet in length. A vast
                                            amount of the timber of Indiana went into wood of this description. It was
                                            used for burning lime without further cutting. When used for fuel in heating
                                            stoves, each stick was commonly sawed into three lengths, of sixteen inches
                                            each.
                              
                                 22 In the period when there was not "much
                                            going on," rowdies often attended spelling schools and revival
                                            meetings, presenting a real problem to those who endeavored to keep
                                        order.
                           
                                     for getting their Farms as far as possible from
                                    being square & we calculate to cut 100 cords of wood if we can, the Timber
                                    dont cost us anything & will bring in a few dollars sometime next Summer or
                                    Fall, but I must finish my scrawl hoping you will be pleased to let us know how you
                                    all get along in Amsterdam. Hoping you are all enjoying good health as I am happy to
                                    say we are enjoying pretty good health at present. Respect to Margaret Isobel
                                    &c &c
                        
                                    I am V t
                                    Thomas B. Fawcett
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Wabash
                                 
                              
                           
                                    January 7 1860
                                
                        Dear Margaret J23
                        
                        I hav bin oing you aleter this long time & never got to write to you befor
                                    you muste not mind that for if you wer to bee hear once & see my work what I
                                    hav to do you would not wonder at it. this leavs our [family] in pretty good health
                                    I hav pretty good health the children are well Charley is siting in Agy
                                    [Aggie's] hy chair and a kick [ing] and laughing as hard as he kin he is a
                                    graite big stout f elow I wish you could se him Agy is groing som now. I have had 2
                                    slay rides this winter but I guess we will not get an other won this winter for the
                                    sno is going off. I had a leter from Mary five or six weeks ago she seemed to be
                                    prety well for her though she did not no how long she would stay their Coopers girls
                                    wrote for hear [her] to come to stay with them this winter I guess she thought of
                                    going I hav not writin since I have not much to write I want you to write me all the
                                    news givin my respects to all that in after me Charley is tierd & sleepey
                                    wants me to tuk him he has maid me make apple loving work so no mor
                        
                                    Yours
                                    Christie A Fawcett
                                
                        Margaret J P
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
            Judge William Clark
            John Adams appointed William Clark to a judgeship in Indiana Territory. His appointment was confirmed
                    by the Senate and he came to 
                        Vincennes
                    . He served for two years or less, his career being cut short by death in the latter
                    part of 1802. He was buried in the Frances Xavier Cemetery in 
                        Vincennes
                    . So little is known about Judge Clark that the following items from the 
                        Vincennes
                     Parish Register are of interest and value. The three entries were furnished by Dr. Milo
                    M. Quaife, Secretary-Editor of The Burton Historical Collection, 
                        Detroit
                     Public Library. The records in the old Parish Register are written in French, and those
                    here published 
                  
                     23 Margaret J. Pollock, wife of Charles Pollock. This letter written
                            by Fawcett's wife to Mrs. Pollock, occupies the last page of Fawcett's
                            letter to Mr. Pollock.
               
                     were translated by Miss Louise Rau of the 
                        Detroit
                     Public Library, from a photostat copy, and verified by Father Pare.
            [The Entries]
            
                    In the year 1802 and the 20 of March was baptized under the name of Louise a daughter aged two
                        years and born of the legitimate marriage of William Clark, Supreme Judge of Indiana Territory,
                        and of Elizabeth Harveis, his wife. Godfather François Vigo, Esquire, and Godmother
                        Suzanne Dubois. 
                            Vincennes
                         20 of March 1802.
                    J. Fr. Eivet, Missionary.
                
            
                    In the Year 1802 and the 12 of November, was buried in the cemetery of this parish the body of
                        William Clark, one of the judges of the Supreme Court of Indiana Territory, died the day before
                        wholly disposed. The last stages of his illness were so rapid that he had no time to receive the
                        last sacraments of the Christian religion. An enlightened judge, firm and uncorruptible, he
                        inspired the sincere regrets of all the high-minded citizens.
                    
                  
                            Vincennes
                        , Nov. 12, 1802.
                    J. Fr. Rivet.
                
            
                    In the year 1803, and the 8 January, was baptised under the name of Françoise Harveis,
                        a daughter born the 28 of the month of last November of the legitimate marriage of deceased
                        William Clark, Judge of the Supreme Court of the Indiana Territory, and of Elizabeth Harveis,
                        his wife. The godfather and godmother were Sieur François 
                            Vigo
                         and Demoiselle Suzanne 
                            Dubois
                        .
                    
                  
                            Vincennes
                         the 8 January in 1803 F. Vigo
                    J. Fr. Rivet, Missionary.
                
         
         
         
            Reviews and Notices
            
               From Canoe to Steel Barge on the Upper 
                            Mississippi
                        . By Mildred L. Hartsough. The University of 
                        Minnesota
                     Press, 1934. Pp. 308, illustrated, $3.50.
            The history of transportation on the 
                        Mississippi
                     has long been a fascinating theme for writers and readers alike. What student of
                    Western history has not reveled in Mark Twain's Life on the 
                            Mississippi
                        
               , George B. Merrick's Old Times on the Upper 
                            Mississippi
                        
                and Herbert Quick's 
                  
                            Mississippi
                         Steamboatin'?
            
            The volume under review deals especially with navigation on the upper 
                        Mississippi
                     and is an attempt to present a connected story of what the author rightly calls
                    "one of the most picturesque chapters of American economic history." The prospect
                    of a renascence of this navigation is offered as a reason for the publication of such a work at the
                    present time.
            Beginning with an account of the discovery and exploration of the River, the writer passes quickly to
                    flatboat days; then to the appearance of the steamboat; to the "Golden Age" of the
                    forties; to the fifties, when "the steamboat ruled the river and the river ruled the
                    Valley;" to the critical years of the sixties; to the decadence of the river traffic; and
                    finally to recent efforts at revival.
            As the drama, which it really is, unfolds, we witness the characters famous in river lore cross the
                    stage: Marquette and Joliet; LaSalle; the French voyageurs; Mike Fink, King of 
                        Mississippi
                     Keelboatmen; Henry M. Shreve, the steamboat builder; Mark Twain, the pilot; and
                    numerous other figures connected with traffic on the Father of Waters.
                    "Steamboating," declares the author, "was not merely a business to a
                    river man: it was his life. … To be on the river was the goal of his ambition from the
                    time when, as a small and eager boy, he began to haunt the river front. The river was a part of him;
                    it was almost as though river water ran in his veins instead of mere blood. The river man was there
                    because his heart was there … there alone he felt at home."
            There are also interesting chapters on early river towns, the men and their boats and steamboating as
                    a business.  The "seeds of decay" in the river
                    traffic, the author affirms, were present before the Civil War. In earlier times practically all the
                    surplus produce of the Northwest had gone down stream to 
                        New Orleans
                    . But a shift was noticeable from west to east in the fifties. The canals and the
                        Great Lakes provided a competitive route. More disastrous still for the
                    down river trade were the East-West trunk-line railroads which were constructed in the decade before
                    the War. The result was a relative falling off of river transportation. The Civil War hastened the
                    process. While there was some recovery after the close of the conflict, the interior rivers never
                    regained their old dominance. The rafting business furnishes the only exception. This reached its
                    height on the upper 
                        Mississippi
                     about 1890.
            "Can the River Come Back?" is the title of one of the later chapters. The author
                    believes there is a possibility of this taking place. European markets will not be so important in
                    the future. The most promising areas of America's foreign trade lie in South America and
                    the Orient. Therefore, cheap water transportation via, the 
                        Mississippi
                     to the Gulf will again take on prominence.
            The Inland Waterways Corporation, a government owned corporation, inaugurated a modern barge service
                    on the lower 
                        Mississippi
                     below 
                        St. Louis
                     in 1924 and on the Upper 
                        Mississippi
                     in 1927. The improvements on the Ohio River were completed in
                    1929, providing for a nine foot stage of water from 
                        Pittsburgh
                     to the mouth of the river. The year 1933 saw the opening of the Lakes-to-the-Gulf
                    waterway from 
                        Chicago
                    
                    via the Drainage Canal and the Illinois River. Then the
                    Federal Barge Lines were extended to this route. At the present time the Federal government is
                    engaged in constructing a series of dams on the upper 
                        Mississippi
                     which will be completed by 1936. This project will provide a nine foot channel for this
                    section of the river which will create a condition similar to that provided for the 
                        Ohio
                    . "Ol' Man River" may again be heard
                    from and that in the near future.
            The student, as well as the general reader, whether or not he agrees with the author's
                    conclusions, will find this admirable volume of great interest. A very complete bibliography for
                    each chapter is given in the back part of the book.
            CHARLES ROLL.
         
         
         
            
               Crusader and Feminist: Letters of Jane Grey Swisshelm, 1858–1865.
                    Edited with introduction and notes by Arthur J. Larsen. The 
                        Minnesota
                     Historical Society, Saint Paul, 1934. Pp. ix, 327, illustrated, $2.50.
            The Swisshelm Letters were published in the St. Cloud Democrat from time to time
                    during a period of seven years. The author of these editorial letters was a pioneer in the editorial
                    field. Through her determination and tireless efforts she succeeded in establishing her newspaper in
                    St. Cloud, 
                        Minnesota
                    . In its columns she used the influence of her pen for Abolition and Woman's
                    Rights, and also wrote on other timely topics. In the first letter, that of November 25, 1858, she
                    said: "The destruction of our press here brought the revelation we dreaded; for we found
                    that we had no more hesitancy in talking to as many people as could get within hearing distance than
                    in talking to one. …"
            While her press was being reconstructed, Mrs. Swiss-helm gave her messages orally and found that she
                    possessed "some talent for public speaking" which she felt called upon to improve.
                    "It is therefore probable that in the future," she ventured, "we may use
                    the voice of speech as well as the voice of the pen … as by that means we may hope to
                    reach many that would otherwise be inaccessible."
            The Letters appear under fourteen chapter titles. They are well written, entertaining and
                    instructive. Of the public lectures mentioned in these chapters, the author says: "I find
                    people much more willing to hear me on subjects connected with Woman's Rights than on the
                    rights of slaves. I regret this, for women, as such, have few wrongs compared to those of the slave
                    …"
            The description of highways and modes of travel are of historic value. Old fashioned customs are
                    revealed in the author's stories of her entertainment in the towns in which lectures were
                    delivered. Women readers were favored by word-pictures of scenery, comments on homely arts, bits of
                    gossip, notes on fashions, and accounts of social functions which the author attended.
            After a visit to the First 
                        Minnesota
                     Volunteer Infantry stationed at Ft. Snelling, the camp and camp life were described for
                    the benefit of those whose sons were there. While in the hospital service at 
                        Washington
                    , D.C., Mrs. Swisshelm  wrote of her experiences in
                    order to show the kind of service that was being rendered to the soldiers and to suggest possible
                    opportunities to "enquiring friends" for supplying comforts needed by the men in
                    the wards.
            The Readers of the St. Cloud Democrat were made acquainted with laborers and
                    editors, ministers and lecturers, legislators and governors, army officers and soldiers, congressmen
                    and cabinet officers, and President and Mrs. Lincoln. The author attended one of President
                    Lincoln's public receptions. When the President clasped her hand she told him that she
                    "hoped the Lord would have mercy on him, as the people had none." She reported
                    that "in the midst of his drudgery he laughed a great hearty, honest laugh." She
                    derived pleasure from seeing the President and characterized him as "a man whose honesty
                    had never been questioned by friend or foe."
            Some of the rumors heard and believed of Mrs. Lincoln by Mrs. Swisshelm were shattered by the
                    friendly smile and cordial greeting. She wondered why Mrs. Lincoln, surrounded by so many admiring
                    friends, should recognize her and "give one of the brightest smiles of the evening to a
                    little, old woman, noted for nothing but Abolitionism." The editor then added: "I
                    intend to publish all the evidence I have and all I can get of her loyalty and good feeling
                    … "
            The "Introduction" of thirty-two pages, prepared by Arthur J. Larsen, includes a
                    biographical sketch of Mrs. Swisshelm. On the last page of his "Introduction," the
                    editor says of the letters They give a charming and intimate picture of
                        frontier 
                            Minnesota
                         in the period of strain just preceding the Civil War and during the first two years
                        of the conflict. The letters from 
                            Washington
                        , written between 1863 and 1865, depict some of the breath-taking suspense endured
                        in the national capital during those years. Those describing hospital conditions record
                        sufferings of the wounded and sick and also reveal the sympathy and poignant grief of the
                        journalist-nurse as she ministered to their needs.
            
            The volume is well printed and attractive, the footnotes have been carefully prepared, and the index
                    is adequate. The book will prove interesting and valuable, not only to readers in the Northwest, but
                    to many persons in every part of the country. The preface, written by the Superintendent of the 
                        Minnesota
                     Historical Society, Dr. Theodore C. Blegen, shows  a
                    fine understanding of the contents and importance of the letters. A single sentence from the preface
                    will give the prospective reader an excellent notion of the nature of the volume: "They
                    [the letters] contain a sharply etched record of what an observant and emotional woman saw, heard,
                    thought, and felt as she journeyed about the young state of 
                        Minnesota
                     and as she labored in the nation's capital in the time of Abraham
                    Lincoln."
            BERTHA THOMAS LYNCH.
         
         
            
               The Eve of Conflict: Stephen A. Douglas and the Needless War. By George Fort 
                        Milton
                    . 
                        Boston
                    : Houghton Mifflin Company, 1934. Pp. xvi, 608, illustrated, $5.00.
            This work is a study of the success of the more extreme elements North and South in preventing the
                    triumph of Stephen A. Douglas. "Uncle Tom's Cabin,
                    'Bleeding Kansas', 'Bully Brooks' assault on Sumner, the Dred
                    Scott case, Buchanan's hate for Douglas, Harper's Ferry—but for these
                    there might have been no Civil War." Such is the statement of the author (p. 237), as he
                    weighs the evidence. In what way could the great civil conflict have been prevented? By accepting
                    the point of view of Douglas who rejected both the northern and southern plans for congressional
                    intervention in the Territories. Believing in the "operation of economic laws,"
                    the Little Giant "felt that climate, soil and other natural characteristics of the western
                    Territories would make them free. He thought the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise repeal would not extend slavery, but would reduce southern opposition to the
                    formation of new Territories. A series of new free Territories would be established; finally the
                    South would find competition too unprofitable and severe, and slavery would die a natural death. But
                    the South would have no legitimate complaint, for its honor would have been respected and its
                    constitutional rights scrupulously offered and maintained. This, to Douglas, was national
                    ground" (p. 183).
            Why did not a majority of the people North and South rally around the standard of Douglas? A major
                    disaster was the break-up of the Democratic party at Charleston. "As late as March,
                    1860," 
                        Milton
                     declares, "there was a good chance to avert Cecession" (p. 370).
                    Because the party machinery  did not permit the people of the
                    South to select delegates who really represented the Douglas sentiment of that section, the southern
                    Ultras aided by President Buchanan were able to stage a bolt that was effective, and really start
                    the war at Charleston in the spring of 1860. In spite of the "irrepressible
                    conflict" theory held by Lincoln, Seward and other leaders, the author of the volume under
                    review believes that, "prior to the disruption of the Democracy, civil war was not
                    inevitable" (p. 519).
            Whether his contention that the Civil War was needless has been demonstrated or not, the courage,
                    consistency and vision of Douglas have been more clearly portrayed than ever before. However narrow
                    the margin, the great statesman of the Northwest who would have saved the 
                        Union
                     without war, was not sustained. The sword was drawn, and not Douglas but 
                        Lincoln
                     is acclaimed the great savior of the 
                        Union
                    . It is clear that there were certain powerful factors that operated to produce the
                    Republican party and to promote a spirit of southern nationalism in the fifties. These great forces
                    must be considered as well as the errors and personal animosities of leaders that helped to bring on
                    the armed conflict. Conditions being what they were in both sections, a resort to war was easier
                    than the acceptance of the policy of Douglas which required an understanding of the slow operation
                    of economic laws based on geography. What happened in 1861 had happened before, has happened since,
                    and may happen again.
            The Eve of Conflict is well written. The author has had access to a great deal of
                    new source matter. He challenges views that are held by many people. His book is stimulating. It
                    should be read by all who are really interested in American history and especially by all students
                    of 
                        Lincoln
                     and Douglas who live in the Old Northwest.
            WILLIAM O. LYNCH.
         
         
            
               Robert Tyler: Southern Rights Champion. By Philip Gerald Auchampaugh. Hinman
                    Stein, Printer, 
                        Duluth
                    , 1934. Pp. xi, 387.
            The author and editor of this volume (it is rather a collection of letters than a biography) has for
                    some years been a student of James Buchanan. He has now brought together and published many letters
                    of Robert Tyler, a few written  by his brother John Tyler, Jr.,
                    several written by Henry A. Wise, and a number written by James Buchanan, with occasional letters
                    from others. There is a "Foreword" contributed by Lyon Gardiner Tyler,
                    distinguished son of President John Tyler, who was born in 1853 when his father was sixty-three
                    years of age and who died only a few weeks ago. Robert and John Tyler were two of the older sons of
                    John Tyler. The ex-President contributes some letters to the collection, those written at the time
                    of the secession movement and the Peace Conference being of especial interest. Nearly all of the
                    correspondence falls within the years from 1851 to 1861. There are six letters that were written in
                    the years before 1851 and five that fall in 1865–1866.
            The correspondence is tied together by intervening comment of Dr. Auchampaugh, which turns the book
                    into a sort of monograph on the relations existing between James Buchanan, Henry A. Wise and Robert
                    Tyler in the critical years preceding the Civil War. In the midst of the matter contributed by
                    himself, the author frequently quotes from correspondence which is not published in the volume, and
                    there are also quite a number of instances where letters are only partially printed.
            There is no doubt whatever of the great value of the correspondence in the collection. It was
                    gathered from the Tyler manuscripts in the possession of Lyon Gardiner Tyler, from the archives of
                    the Historical Society of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , from the Manuscripts Division of the Congressional Library, and from various printed
                    sources. The author has studied with care the events and men of the period covered, and his
                    conclusions are thoughtful and stimulating. His characterizations of Robert Tyler, Henry Wise, R. M.
                    T. Hunter and Buchanan are very interesting. In general he is in sympathy with Buchanan, but he
                    makes a real effort to treat him impartially. In regard to the role that Buchanan attempted to play
                    during the last weeks of his presidency, Dr. Auchampaugh says: But it was
                        not 1833. There were new men of strong passions and hardened hearts who knew not and cared not
                        for the ways of the fathers. Webster, Clay, and Calhoun were dead. Buchanan still lived, but his
                        long and friendly association with Southern leaders had been used against him by Republican
                        newspapers of the North. Then malicious  propaganda had
                        greatly injured his influence in his own section at a time when it would have been well to have
                        taken heed to his earnest and experienced counsel.
            
            One of the most interesting contentions of Robert Tyler (Tyler to Wise, 
                        Philadelphia
                    , June 9, 1856) is that 
                        Virginia
                     really nominated Buchanan in 1856. "
                        Virginia
                    ," he declared, "had the credit of making the nomination and you
                    [Henry A. Wise] are the hero of the fight." In a letter to Buchanan (
                        Richmond
                    , November 30, 1856), Wise wrote: "I am responsible for your nomination and
                    election. … " In his new work, The Eve of Conflict: Stephen A.
                        Douglas and the Needless War (pp. 226–228), George Fort 
                        Milton
                     gives the credit mainly to Jesse D. Bright and the Indiana delegation.
            A few points in regard to the editing of the correspondence require mention. Where explanatory words
                    or phrases are inserted in the text of a letter by the editor they are invariably enclosed in
                    parentheses instead of brackets. This is confusing as there appear a number of words and expressions
                    that were enclosed in parentheses by the writers of the letters. In most cases a reader can
                    correctly judge the authorship of the enclosed matter but not always (pp. 205, 287, 347). The
                    printer has not done a good job, and sometimes it is hard to know where a letter ends. It is often
                    not possible to tell whether omission marks indicate the deletion of matter by the editor or that
                    something has been omitted because not legible. There are not a sufficient number of explanations to
                    guide a reader not thoroughly familiar with the history of the times.
            Robert Tyler, whose letters make up a large part of the volume, lived at 
                        Philadelphia
                     for years before the opening of the Civil War. Because he believed that the seceding
                    states should be allowed to go in peace, though he was "not in fact a
                    disunionist," this son of a former President was driven from 
                        Pennsylvania
                     after the beginning of hostilities. He served the Confederacy throughout the conflict,
                    and later settled in 
                        Alabama
                     where he practiced law for a time at 
                        Montgomery
                     and then edited a newspaper, The 
                            Montgomery
                         Mail and Advertizer. The following passage from a letter which he wrote to
                    Buchanan (
                        Montgomery
                    , March 16, 1866), revealing how one who had fought and lost could bravely adjust  himself to new conditions, is one of the most fascinating things
                    in the volume: You must know that I have become the most economical person of your acquaintance—neither drink, smoke, or
                        chew—never enter a Club or a Theater—in truth am a self supporting
                        machine—sweep my own floor, make my own fires, cook my own food, clean my shoes,
                        fetch my water & serve myself in all particulars except to wash my clothing. I sleep on
                        a cot in my office. On Saturday evening I go to the country to see my family & remain
                        with them untill Monday morning.
            
            WILLIAM O. LYNCH.
         
         
            
               Early Architects and Builders of Indiana is the title of a study of thirty-six
                    pages by Mr. Lee Burns, an architect of 
                        Indianapolis
                     and an active official in the Indiana Historical Society. This brief treatise is Number
                    3 of Volume XI, Indiana Historical Society Publications. It was issued as a
                    separate early in the present year, and copies may be purchased at fifty cents each from the Secretary of the Society. The illustrations are unusually good. Anyone interested
                    in fine old buildings and in matter pretaining to the designers of some of the best that were
                    constructed in Indiana in earlier periods will enjoy this modest pamphlet by Mr. Burns.
            President Otho Winger of 
                        Manchester
                     College, North 
                        Manchester
                    , Indiana, has long been a student of the history and customs of the Indians who once
                    occupied the valleys and prairies of Indiana. He has recently published two pamphlets dealing with 
                        Miami
                     Indians and their habitat. The first was brought out in 1934 and the second in the
                    present year. The earlier publication, a booklet of twenty-six pages carries the title, The Ke Na Po Co Mo Co (Eel River): The Home of Little
                        Turtle. The second, called The Last of the Miamis, runs to thirty-eight
                    pages. These two brief efforts to portray some of the interesting history of the 
                        Miami
                     Indians were preceded by a still earlier pamphlet by President Winger, The
                        Frances Slocum Trail In each instance, the accounts are enlivened by illustrations. All
                    were privately printed, and unfortunately a very limited number was published. The author expects to
                    bring out a larger work at some future time, and all who have become acquainted with his brief
                    studies are anxious that the appearance of such a volume shall not be long delayed.
            
            Dr. Louis A. Warren, Director of the 
                        Lincoln
                     National Life Foundation at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , has brought out under the auspices of the 
                        Lincoln
                     National Life Insurance Company, a small pamphlet, Abraham Lincoln: A
                        Concise Biography. Many facts, well presented, are crowded into this truly
                    "concise biography," which will no doubt prove useful and helpful to many busy
                    people. Though this very short life contains only twenty-two pages, it is accompanied by two pages
                    of 
                        Lincoln
                     pictures. On the inside of the last cover-page, there is a map of those parts of 
                        Kentucky
                    , Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                     with which the Lincoln family was identified. The frontispiece is a reproduction of
                    Bracker's painting, The Boy 
                        Lincoln
                     and His Mother. Copies of the sketch are furnished free by the 
                        Lincoln
                     National Life Insurance Company.
            The following books of interest to our readers have been received and will be reviewed in the June
                    issue: The Centennial History of 
                            Franklin
                         College, by Dr. John F. Cady, professor of history in 
                        Franklin
                     College; Education in Indiana (1793–1934), by Fassett A.
                    Cotton; Catharine Merrill: Life and Letters, collected and arranged by Katharine
                    Merrill Graydon; Laws of Indiana Territory, edited by Judge Lewis Ewbank and
                    Dorothy Riker; Territorial Papers of the 
                            United States
                        
                (three volumes), edited by Dr. Clarence E. Carter.
            Several professors connected with southern colleges and universities who are interested in southern
                    history formed the Southern Historical Association at 
                        Atlanta
                     a few months ago. One of the important results of this activity has been the launching
                    of a new historical quarterly, The Journal of Southern History. The new review is
                    sponsored by 
                        Louisiana
                     State University, and the editor is Dr. Wendell Holmes Stephenson, an Indiana man. The
                    first issue of the Journal has appeared. It is a very attractive and interesting
                    number. Beyond a doubt the periodical will fill a long felt need, and it should receive a wide and
                    generous support. Many persons in Indiana will probably wish to join the Association and receive the
                        Journal. The dues are $3.00 per year. Every good library in Indiana
                    should begin at once to build up a file starting with the first issue.
         
         
         
            Comment
            Will liberals always disagree so fully as to hinder progress? They surely show strong tendencies to
                    do just that. A liberal leader with insight, courage and power will always have a most difficult
                    task to frame a program of such a nature that each feature included will not be attacked with
                    extreme vigor by one liberal element or another. When a liberal does not approve of some part of a
                    program, he is prone to assault the leader who sponsors the program with appalling fury. Another
                    liberal who is opposed to another part of the program performs in a like manner, while still others
                    attempt to block additional features of the general scheme. Thus a strong progressive leader is in
                    danger of seeing his plans frustrated not by reactionaries but by those from whom he has naturally
                    expected the most powerful support.
            There is no lesson that history teaches more thoroughly than this, that unwelcome ideas can not be
                    eradicated by suppression. This must be the method natural to human beings, however, since it is
                    almost invariably resorted to by those who wish to stop the spread of some ism or
                    destroy the influence of some element out of harmony with the existing order. Attempts at
                    suppression are usually quite effective in promoting a rapid increase of the very ideas or
                    influences believed to merit obliteration.
            Multitudes of Americans seem to be happy that the 
                        United States
                     is not to be linked up with the World Court on the ground that we should avoid all
                    foreign entanglements. Peoples have, and will again, become involved in the worst of entanglements
                    and even wars because of prejudices and misunderstandings created by ignorance or by false
                    propaganda. A World Court functioning ever so poorly at least represents an intelligent effort to
                    prevent clashes between nations through giving them some chance to settle disputes according to
                    right and reason before plunging into wars. Any man who has acquired an influence over a vast number
                    of people assumes a gigantic responsibility when he turns them all against an important proposal by
                    merely waving a magic wand of eloquence or humor.
            
            Lincoln's birthday always brings a new crop of speeches and a new mass of comment on the
                    great emancipator in the columns of newspapers. This would be all to the good were it not for the
                    fact that so much erroneous information is furnished to unsuspecting citizens of the country. It is
                    not fair to 
                        Lincoln
                     to portray him as a man who was so great from an early period of his life that he had
                    no chance to grow in character, strength, and wisdom. It does not enhance his fame to paint strong
                    competitors as if they were weaklings.
            It is an open question whether Lincoln's vision was equal to that of Douglas in the
                    important years from 1854 to 1861. The man who realized the importance of preserving the 
                        Union
                     after the formation of the Confederacy was more of a statesman than the party leader
                    who advocated the Wilmot Proviso principle regardless of the consequences. When in the midst of the
                    passions and hysteria created by the War, 
                        Lincoln
                     originated a generous plan of restoring self-government to the people of the states of
                    the South as they were brought under control by invading armies, he proved himself to be more than a
                    statesman—he then became a great man.
            The power to declare federal laws invalid which belongs to the Supreme Court of the 
                        United States
                     only through the reasoning of its own members is a power of doubtful value and always
                    has been. Without such a power, all laws which the Court has sustained would have remained valid as
                    the sanction of the Court would have been unnecessary. In regard to laws declared to be
                    unconstitutional by the Court, more harm than good has been done in the course of the
                    country's history. In any event, the same simple rule which Thomas Jefferson suggested to
                    President Washington when he was wrestling with the problem whether to approve or veto the Bank Bill
                    of 1791, would seem to be a wholesome guide for the Justices of the highest Court in the land
                    whenever they are in doubt. 
                        Jefferson
                    , then the Secretary of State, concluded an opinion which he prepared at the request of 
                        Washington
                     with this generous (He had argued against the Bank Bill) and statesmanlike advice:
                        It must be added, however, that unless the President's mind on
                        a view of everything which is urged for and against this bill, is tolerably clear that it is
                        unauthorized by the Constitution; if the pro and con hang  so
                        even as to balance his judgment, a just respect for the wisdom of the legislature would
                        naturally decide the balance in favor of their opinion. …
            
            Contributors to this issue: Sexson E. Humphreys, a graduate of DePauw University, now holds an Albert
                    J. Beveridge Fellowship in American history from that institution and is doing research in the
                    Congressional Library and other libraries in 
                        Washington
                    ; Mildred Holsapple is a student in 
                        Hanover
                     College; H. S. K. Bartholomew is a retired newspaper man living near 
                        Goshen
                    , Indiana, who has contributed a number of articles to our quarterly; Rev. John W. Meloy
                    is the pastor of the United Presbyterian Church of 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana; George S. Cottman, founder and first editor of the Indiana
                        Magazine of History, lives in retirement near 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana; Mrs. Sarah Smith Pratt, author of Episcopal Bishops of
                    Indiana, lives in 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; Oka S. Flick is head of the Social Studies Department, Arsenal Technical High School, 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; Charles Roll is associate professor of history in Indiana State Teachers College, 
                        Terre Haute
                    . Mrs. Bertha Thomas Lynch is a resident of 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana, who in a quiet way performs many a service for the Indiana
                        Magazine of History.
            
         
         
         
            Reprints
            Reprints of any paper published in the Indiana Magazine of History may be obtained
                    by any contributor. Estimates of the cost will be furnished on request and an order placed for as
                    many reprints of any article as may be desired by the author. Requests should be made to the Editor before the issue containing the article of which reprints are desired is
                    published.
         
         
            Wanted
            We hope that some of our readers can aid us to obtain the desired publications listed below. The
                    Library of Indiana University and other libraries In different parts of the country are in need of
                    copies of the issues mentioned in order to complete files. For older and rarer numbers, prices above
                    the regular rates will be paid. Persons possessing any of the desired publications may write to the
                        Indiana Magazine of History.
            
            
               Indiana Magazine of History. We have a serious need of more copies of the following
                    numbers, especially those marked with asterisks:
            
               
                  ∗ Volume I, 3, 4 (Sept., Dec., 1905).
               Volume II, 2, 4 (June, Dec., 1906).
               Volume III, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1907)
               Volume IV, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1908).
               Volume V, 2, 3, 4 (June, Sept., Dec., 1909).
               Volume VI, 1, 3, 4 (March, Sept., Dec., 1910).
               Volume VII, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1911).
               
                  ∗Volume VIII, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1912).
               Volume IX, 1 (March, 1913).
               
                  ∗ Volume X, 1 (March, 1914).
               
                  ∗ Volume XVII, 4 (Dec. 1921).
               Volume XVIII, 1 (March, 1922).
               Volume XXII, 1 (March, 1926).
            
            Full sets of the Magazine can rarely be supplied to libraries or individuals who
                    may desire to purchase. A complete file from 1920 forward can be supplied at fifty cents a copy, or
                    two dollars per volume, unbound; from 1914 to 1919, the price is one dollar per copy, or four
                    dollars per volume. Issues from 1905–1913, when they can be supplied at all, will be sold
                    at one and a half dollars per number.
            
            The Indiana University Library needs the following publications to complete its files. Anyone having
                    any of these publications will confer a great favor by writing to W. A. Alexander, Librarian of
                    Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
            
                    The Indiana Alumnus
                
            
               Volume VI, 14 (Dec. 25, 1926). Wanted 3 copies.
               Volume VI, 16 (Jan. 16, 1927). Wanted 2 copies.
            
            
               The Indiana University Catalogue. The University needs the following to fill out
                    the files.
            
               1832–1833. Wanted 3 copies.
               1833–1834. Wanted 3 copies.
               1834–1835. Wanted 3 copies.
               1836–1837. Wanted 2 copies.
               1837–1838. Wanted 2 copies.
               1839–1840. Wanted 2 copies.
               1840–1841. Wanted 2 copies.
               1843–1844. Wanted 2 copies.
               1849–1850. Wanted 2 copies.
               1853–1854. Wanted 2 copies.
            
            
               The Indiana School Journal. Wanted Volume XXXVII (1892) and Volume XXXVIII (1893).
            
               
                  
                            Lincoln
                         Lore. Wanted copies of Numbers 3–8, 10–11, 13,
                    15–17, 22, 26–29, 34 and 35 of 1929; Numbers 53 and 60 of 1930.
            
               Indiana Law Journal. Wanted copies of: Vol. I, No. 1; Vol. II, Nos. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6;
                    Vol. III, Nos. 1, 5, 6. The desired copies were published at 
                        Indianapolis
                     during 1898–1899.
         
      
      
         
      
   
